VILLAGE CODE
of
RIVER GROVE
ILLINOIS
1964
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-19, passed July 21, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of River Grove, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-19, passed July 21, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO 1964-17
PROVIDING FOR THE CODIFICATION OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF
RIVER GROVE, ILLINOIS, AND PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE OFFICIAL CODE OF
THE VILLAGE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF RIVER
GROVE, that:
   Section 1. The Ordinances of the Village of River Grove of a general and
permanent nature, as compiled, renumbered and recodified by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc. in the following titles, chapters and sections, namely Titles I through XI
are hereby approved and ordained as General Ordinances of the Village of River
Grove and are adopted as and shall constitute "The River Grove Village Code of
1964".
   Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service
whereby each newly adopted Ordinance of a general nature, amending, altering
adding to, or deleting provisions of this Official Village Code is identified
by the proper catch line, and following preparation by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc., is inserted in the proper place in each of the Official copies. Each such
insertion shall be made within thirty (30) days following the date of adoption
by the Board of Trustees.
   Section 3. The Code hereby adopted having been printed in book form,
published by the authority of the President and Board of Trustees shall be in
full force and effect from and after August 1, 1964.
   Section 4. At least 3 copies of said Code shall at all times be on file in
the Office of the Village Clerk for use and inspection by the public.
   Passed and Approved by the President and Board of Trustees this 16th day of
July, 1964.
TITLE I
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Proof of Ordinances
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Rules of Construction
1-1-5: Price and Cost of Ordinances Printed in Book Etc., Form
1-1-1: TITLE:
The ordinances contained in this and the following Chapters and Sections shall
constitute and be designated "The River Grove Village Code of 1964" and may be
so cited. Any reference made to the number of any Section contained here in
shall be understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate
Chapter and Title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto,
as well as to the Section itself, when reference is made to this Village Code
by title in any legal document.
1-1-2: PROOF OF ORDINANCES:
This Village Code, having been printed in book form and published by authority
of the President and Board of Trustees, shall hereafter be received in all
courts and in all administrative tribunals of this State as prima facie
evidence of the contents, passage and legal publication of the ordinances
herein contained.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the Title, Chapter and
Section number of the Section or Sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to
Sterling Codifiers, Inc., or elsewhere as may be designated by the Board and
the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place
in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the Village Code
within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage.
1-1-4: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the interpretation and construction of this Village Code, the following
rules of construction shall be observed unless they are inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Board or the context clearly requires otherwise:
   (A)   Severability of parts of Code. Should any section, paragraph,
sentence, clause, phrase or word of this Code be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, or
unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining words, phrases,
clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code, since the same would
have been enacted by the board without the incorporation in this Code of any
such invalid or unconstitutional word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or
section.
   (B)   Catchlines of sections. The catchlines of the several sections of this
Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the
contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such
sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided
shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines,
are amended or reenacted.
1-1-5: PRICE AND COST OF ORDINANCES PRINTED IN BOOK, ETC., FORM:
Whenever an ordinance imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture,
or making any appropriation shall be printed in book or pamphlet form,
published by authority of the board, the village shall impose a reasonable
price commensurate with the cost of the printing thereof for the distribution
of such book or pamphlet to the public. (1964 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to March 5, 1964 are hereby
repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in force or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following Section), from which are excluded the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed; tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances, establishing, naming
or vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances;
bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the Village; the zoning
ordinance and all amendments thereof, and all special ordinances. (Amd. Ord.
1964-17; 7-16-64)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or
by virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this Village Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect of such
provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding Section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the Village herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or
altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any
person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the Village under any
ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this
Village Code. (1964 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Definitions, General
1-3-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code they shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
ACTION: The term "Action" shall include suits, prosecutions and all judicial
proceedings.
AGENT: The word "Agent" as used in this Code shall mean a person acting on
behalf of another.
BOARD: The words "Board" or "The Board" mean the board of trustees of the
Village of River Grove, Illinois.
CODE: The word "Code" unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this
Village Code.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which any act provided by law is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, and then it shall also be
excluded. If the day succeeding such Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or a
Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be excluded.
COUNTY: The words "County" or "The county" mean Cook County in the State of
Illinois.
COURT: The word "Court" includes justices of the peace as well as all courts of
record.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of River Grove".
FEE: The word "Fee" as used in this Code shall mean a sum of money charged by
the Village for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
GENDER: Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
IN THE VILLAGE: The words "In the Village" or "Within the Village" mean and
include all territory over which the Village now has or shall hereafter acquire
jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other regulatory powers.
JOINT AUTHORITY: Words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more
public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to
a majority of such officers or persons.
KNOWINGLY: The word "Knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts exist
which brings the act or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does
not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The word "License" as used in this Code shall mean the permission
granted for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: The word "Misdemeanor" shall mean any offense deemed a violation
of the provisions of this Code which is a lesser offense than a felony as
defined by State law.
MONTH: The word "Month" means a calendar month.
NEGLIGENT: The word "Negligent", as well as "Neglect", "Negligence", and
"Negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature or probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: The word "Nuisance" shall mean anything offensive or obnoxious to the
health and welfare of the inhabitants of the Village, or any act or thing
repugnant to, or creating a hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the
property of another person or to the Community.
NUMBER: Words importing the singular number may extend and be applied to
several persons or things and words importing the plural may include the
singular.
OATH: The word "Oath" shall be deemed to include an affirmation and the word
"Sworn" shall be construed to include the word "affirmed".
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: The words "Occupant" or "Tenant" applied to a building or
land, mean any person who holds a written or an oral lease of or actually
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: The word "Offense" shall mean any act forbidden by any provision of
this Code or the omission of any act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICER: Whenever the title of any village officer is used, it shall be
construed as if the words "Of the Village of River Grove" followed it.
OPERATOR: The word "Operator" as used in this Code shall mean the person who is
in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "And", and "And" may be read "Or," if the sense
requires it.
OWNER: The word "Owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant of
the whole or a part of such building or land.
PERSON: The word "Person" means any individual, partnership, corporation, joint
stock association or any city or state or any subdivision, thereof; and
includes any trustee, receiver, assignee or personal representative thereof.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: "Personal property" includes every species of property,
except real property as defined in this section.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: The words "Preceding" and "Following" mean next before
and next after, respectively.
PRESIDENT: The term "President" shall mean the president of the Village of
River Grove.
PROPERTY: The word "Property" shall include real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: "Real property" shall include lands, tenements, and
hereditaments and shall embrace all chattels real.
RETAILER: The word "Retailer" as used in this Code, unless otherwise
specifically defined shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
SEAL: The word "Seal" shall mean the seal of the Village of River Grove.
SIDEWALK: The word "Sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curb
lines, or the lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The words "State" or "The state" means the State of Illinois.
STREET: The word "Street" means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right for purposes of traffic.
TENSE: Words in the present tense include the future.
VILLAGE: The words "Village" or the "The Village" mean the Village of River
Grove in Cook County, State of Illinois, except as otherwise provided.
WHOLESALER: The words "Wholesaler" and "Wholesale Dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: The term "Wilfully" when applied to the intent with which an act is
done or omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or
make the omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law,
or to injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: The words "Written" or "In writing" may include printing
and any other mode of representing words and letters, but when the written
signature of any person is required by law to any official or public writing or
bond required by law, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or
in case he is unable to write, by his proper mark.
YEAR: The word "Year" means a calendar year unless otherwise expressed. (1964
Code)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-4-1: Board, Duties, Powers
1-4-2: Oath
1-4-3: Regular Meetings
1-4-4: Special Meetings
1-4-5: Quorum
1-4-6: Absences
1-4-1: BOARD, DUTIES, POWERS:
The Board of Trustees shall consist of six (6) members, who shall be elected to
office for the term as provided by statute 1 . The Board shall be the
legislative department of the Village government, and shall perform such duties
and have such powers as may be delegated to it by the statute 2 . (11-18-1954)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-2.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3-9-1, 5/3-12-1.
1-4-2: OATH:
The members of the Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office prescribed
by statute 3 , and shall receive such compensation as may from time to time be
provided by ordinance. (11-18-1954)
 
Notes
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/1-14-1.
1-4-3: REGULAR MEETINGS:
Regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held on the first Monday of
each January and February, and the first and third Monday of each March, April,
May, October, November and December, and on the third Monday of each June,
July, August and September, with each meeting commencing at six o'clock (6:00)
P.M., local time, unless otherwise ordered at a regular meeting prior thereto
or a meeting falls on an official holiday and the administrative offices of the
village are closed.
In addition to the regular meetings of the Board of Trustees, a meeting of the
Committee of the Whole shall be held by the Board of Trustees on each second
Monday of any month, with such meeting commencing at six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
local time, in the conference room of the administrative offices of the
Village, unless otherwise ordered at a regular meeting prior thereto. No action
shall be taken by the Committee of the Whole at these meetings and all such
action shall be taken during a regular meeting of the Board.
(Ord. 2017-15, 9-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-27, 11-16-2023)
1-4-4: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings may be held at any time, on call of the President or any three
(3) or more Trustees; such call shall be in writing, duly signed, and shall be
presented to the Clerk, who shall proceed immediately to prepare notices of the
same, and shall cause them to be served on the President and members of the
Board of Trustees; such notices shall describe, in brief, the nature or object
of the call. At every special meeting the call for the same shall be read and
afterward filed by the Clerk; and no business other than that proposed by the
call shall be in order at such meeting. Provided, however, that the notice and
call required herein shall be considered waived as to the President or any
member of the Board of Trustees who is actually present and participates in the
business of any such special meeting. (11-18-1954)
1-4-5: QUORUM:
A majority of the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business, but no
ordinance shall be passed except upon a favorable vote of a majority of the
elected members, as provided by statute. (Ch. 4, Rev. Ord. 1939)
1-4-6: ABSENCES:
Trustees shall be allowed to be absent from two (2) meetings in each year for
which compensation shall be paid at the rate set by ordinance; provided,
however, that a Trustee may miss more than two (2) meetings per year and still
receive payment at the set rate if such Trustee can show due cause for such
additional absence, such as illness of the Trustee, serious illness of a member
of the Trustee's immediate family, a death in the Trustee's immediate family,
or other like cause. (Ord. 1966-9, 5-12-1966)
CHAPTER 5
RULES GOVERNING BOARD MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Rules
1-5-1: RULES:
Following are listed the official rules by which the board hereby agrees to
bind itself for the conduct of all official businesses. (Chapter 4, Rev. Ord.
1939)
Rule 1.   The following order of business shall be adhered to in all meetings
of the board, unless suspended by the unanimous consent of the members present:
First: Call to order and Pledge of Allegiance.
Second: Roll call of members by the clerk and absentees noted.
Third: Approval of minutes of previous meetings.
Fourth: Correspondence read by the clerk.
Fifth: Committee reports.
Sixth: Old business.
Seventh: Resolutions and proclamations.
Eighth: Ordinances:
(a)    -   First reading by the clerk.
   -   Brief explanation of the ordinance.
(b)    -   Second reading by the clerk.
   -   Brief explanation of the ordinance.
   -   Public discussion during the meeting, limited to two (2) minutes per
speaker.
Ninth: New business.
Tenth: President's report.
Eleventh: Closed session permitting the board to address and deliberate matters
closed to the public in certain, narrow circumstances pursuant to 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 120/2(c). In the event that a closed session is deemed
necessary, the following procedures shall be followed:
(a)   The subject to be discussed at the meeting is one of the enumerated
exceptions listed in section 2(c) of the open meetings act (5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 120/2(c)):
   1. Collective negotiating matters between the village and its employees or
representatives (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(2));
   2. Deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(2));
   3. Meetings in which the purchase or lease of real property for the use of
the village is being considered, including meetings held for the purpose of
discussing whether a particular parcel should be acquired, or in which the
board is considering the setting of a price for sale or lease of its property
(5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(5));
   4. Meetings held to discuss litigation when an action against, affecting, or
on behalf of the village has been filed and is pending in a court or
administrative tribunal if the board finds that such an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for such a finding shall be recorded and
entered into the minutes of the closed meeting (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
120/2(c)(11));
   5. Meetings to consider the appointment, employment, compensation,
discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees, including legal
counsel, or to hear testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee to
determine its validity (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(1));
   6. Meetings to discuss professional ethics or performance when considered by
an advisory body appointed to advise a licensing or regulatory agency on
matters germane to its field of competence (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2
(c)(15));
   7. Meetings to consider the appointment of a person to fill a public office
or vacancy in a public office when the board or president has the appointing
authority and to consider removal from office when the board or president has
the equivalent power (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(3));
   8. Meetings to establish reserves or settle claims as provided in the local
governmental and governmental employees tort immunity act 745 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 10/1-101 et seq., if the disposition of a claim or potential claim
otherwise might be prejudiced or to discuss information regarding or from an
insurer or self-insurance pool of which the government is a member (5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(12));
   9. Meetings concerning criminal investigatory responsibilities to consider
informant sources; the hiring or assignment of undercover personnel or
equipment; or ongoing, prior, or future criminal investigations (5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(14));
   10. Meetings to discuss or consider the sale or purchase of securities or
investment contracts (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(7));
   11. Meetings to review and approve closed session minutes, including the
semiannual review of closed session minutes pursuant to section 2.06(d) of the
open meetings act (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.06(d), 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)(21));
   12. Meetings to discuss self-evaluation, practices and procedures, or
professional ethics when meeting with a representative of a statewide
association of which the village is a member (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/
2(c)(16));
   13. Meetings to consider security procedures and the use of personnel and
equipment to respond to an actual, threatened, or reasonably potential danger
to the safety of employees and public property or to discuss threats or danger
to the security of the public itself (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2(c)
(8)).
(b)   A majority of a quorum at a meeting open to the public must vote to have
the closed meeting (5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2a).
(c)   The vote of each member on the question of holding the closed meeting is
recorded and entered in the minutes of the open meeting (5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 120/2a, 120/2.06(a)(3)).
(d)   The motion to hold the closed session and the minutes of the meeting
shall contain a citation to the specific exception under section 2(c) of the
open meetings act that authorizes the closing of the meeting to the public (5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2a). Only those topics specified in the motion
for a closed meeting may be discussed at the closed session (5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 120/2a).
(e)   The closed session must be recorded in its entirety through a verbatim
audio or video recording, and this tape must be maintained for at least
eighteen (18) months following the closed session (120 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 120/2.06(a), 120/2.06(c)).
Twelfth: Adjournment.
Rule 2.   The president shall decide all questions of order, and in all cases
where these rules are not applicable, the board shall be governed by
parliamentary law as laid down in "Robert's Rules Of Order". (Chapter 4, Rev.
Ord. 1939)
Rule 3.   Members intending to discuss any question shall address the president
who shall recognize them in the order of their request. No person shall be
deemed to have the floor until recognized by the president.
Rule 4.   No person, except a member of the board, shall be permitted to
address the same unless by the unanimous consent of the board.
Rule 5.   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances,
and on all propositions to create any liability against the Village, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of any money, and in all other cases at the
request of any member, which shall be entered on the journal of proceedings;
and a concurrence of a majority of all the members elected shall be necessary
to the passage of any ordinance or proposition. It shall require two-thirds (2/
3) of all the members elected to sell any Village property.
Rule 6.   All resolutions and amendments of rules or ordinances shall, before
being presented, be reduced to writing and handed to the Clerk, and read by
him.
Rule 7.   Any ordinance presented for passage shall, at the request of any two
(2) Trustees present, be referred to a committee, whose duty it shall be to
examine the draft presented, and the facts, if any, to which it relates, and
before reporting their approval thereupon shall obtain the written opinion of
the Village Attorney concerning the legality of the subject matter and
phraseology.
Rule 8.   If the question in debate contains several distinct positions, the
same shall be divided upon the request of any member; and when a blank is to be
filled, or different sums or items proposed, the question shall first be put
upon the largest sum and the longest time. (Chapter 4, Rev. Ord. 1939)
Rule 9.   All standing committees shall be appointed by the President of the
Board of Trustees at or before the second regular meeting in each Municipal
year, or as soon thereafter as may be practical, and whenever any vacancy shall
occur. Special committees shall also be appointed by the said President, unless
otherwise ordered by the Board.
Rule 10.   There shall be the following standing committees:
   (A)   Public Safety (police, fire and paramedic services): 1) Recommends
policies for and coordinates/oversees the operation of all branches of public
safety; and 2) is responsible for the personnel of these departments to the
extent such personnel is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Fire
and Police Commissioners of the Village of River Grove.
   (B)   Public Works and Public Properties: 1) Recommends policy and
coordinates all projects dealing with streets, alleys, water systems,
utilities, lighting, franchises in, and improvements to the Village; 2)
oversees the contracting and engineering of approved projects; 3) recommends
policies and responsible for the upkeep and improvement of Village properties,
as well as contracting for same; and 4) recommends uses and use rules and
regulations for various Village properties.
   (C)   Finance and Economic Development: 1) Recommends financial policies and
oversees the collection and disbursement of monies; 2) recommends a Village
budget, appropriation ordinance and tax levy; 3) sets policies and monitors the
reserves and investments of the Village; and 4) recommends policies and
oversees programs established, maintained and operated in furtherance of the
economic and community development objectives of the Village.
   (D)   License and Ordinance: 1) Recommends policies and is responsible for
granting of licenses issued by the Village; 2) oversees the enforcement of
rules and regulations governing licenses; and 3) oversees the enforcement of
ordinances with BOCA or other applicable commissions, departments and
inspectors.
      (E)   Information Technology and Communications: 1) Recommends policies
and oversees acquisition of all new computer hardware as well as licensing and
implementation of software applications used in all Village Departments and by
the Administration; 2) oversees and set policies regarding internet access,
email systems, data storage and access, and cybersecurity used by the Village;
3) oversees all forms of communications from the Village including brochures,
flyers, newsletters, advertising and news releases; 4) recommends marketing and
outreach initiatives to increase community engagement, foster civic pride and
appreciation of the historic importance of the Village; and 5) oversees and
coordinates the Village's social media presence on the internet.
   (F)   Youth and Recreation: Sets policy and coordinates youth and recreation
activities and enhances youth involvement with the Village.
Each committee shall consist of two (2) Trustees and the applicable or
appropriate department head or Program Director as appointed by the President
and approved by the two (2) Trustee members of the committee. Each Trustee
shall be appointed to serve on two (2) committees.
Rule 11.   Standing and special committees to whom references are made, shall
in all cases report the facts with their opinions thereon, in writing.
Rule 12.   Any report of a committee shall, upon the request of any two (2)
Trustees present, be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular or
special meeting of the Board. (Chapter 4, Rev. Ord. 1939)
Rule 13.   No bill against the Village shall be allowed until the same has been
approved by an appropriate committee, and in addition by the Finance and
Economic Development Committee, and in all cases receipts must be taken for
monies paid out, and a proper voucher of bill shall accompany each account
presented. (Chapter 4, Rev. Ord. 1939; amd. Ord. 2016-10, 7-7-2016)
Rule 14.   The vote upon the adoption of any ordinance, resolution or order of
the Board may be reconsidered but once, and only at the same or the next
regular meeting.
Provided, a reconsideration may be had at a special meeting held before the
next regular meeting if there be present as large a number of Trustees as were
present when the original vote was taken.
Rule 15.   Every member who shall be present when a question is stated from the
Chair shall vote thereon unless excused by the Board; or unless he shall be
directly interested in the question, in which case he shall not vote.
Rule 16.   When a question is before the Board, no motions shall be in order
but these: a) to adjourn; b) to lay on the table; c) the "previous question";
d) to postpone indefinitely; e) to postpone to a definite time; f) to commit;
g) to amend; and these motions shall be privileged and have precedence in the
order in which they succeed each other in this rule.
Rule 17.   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order except: a) when a
member is in possession of the floor; b) when the yeas and nays are being
called; c) when members are voting; d) when adjournment was the last motion; or
e) when it has been decided that the "previous question" shall be taken; and
the "previous question" shall be as follows: "Shall the main question now be
put?" (Chapter 4, Rev. Ord. 1939)
Rule 18.   These rules may be suspended by the Chair when no objection is made,
or upon a vote of a majority of the Board. (11-1-56)
Rule 19.   Except as provided herein, final action on an ordinance may take
place at the meeting at which an ordinance is first introduced. Final action on
an ordinance first introduced at a meeting may, at the insistence of two
trustees, be deferred to the next regular meeting of the Board for
consideration and action by the Board. At the initial meeting, and any
subsequent meeting if applicable, a reading of the title of an ordinance
presented shall be read by the Clerk or Chairperson of the License and
Ordinance Committee in the event of the Clerk’s absence. The ordinance
presented shall be made available for public review through the Clerk’s Office.
Rule 20.   Rules regarding public participation at meetings of the Board of
Trustees. In order to secure the rights of the citizens of the Village to a
fair and just representation before their elected officials, and to guarantee
to those duly elected officials and appointed officers an orderly and dignified
forum in which to represent the rights of said citizens, no person shall be
allowed to engage in any activity that will disturb or disrupt the orderly
proceedings of the Village Board. In order to attain this objective, the
following rules of conduct are hereby established:
   (A)   Any person who seeks to address the Village Board, at the time
allotted by the Board for public comment, shall be permitted to speak only upon
recognition of the presiding officer and such person shall adhere to the
following provisions:
      1.   Each person addressing the Village Board shall state his or her name
for the record.
      2.    Each person shall be granted no more than three (3) minutes per
meeting in order to address the Village Board, unless such time is extended by
the presiding officer.
      3.   Questions and/or commentary shall not be limited to municipal
business that is set forth on the agenda of the meeting at which the public
comment is being made.
      4.   All commentary and questions shall be directed to the presiding
officer unless that officer permits the individual to address the Board members
or other officers present. At no time shall commentary or questions be directed
to any other person or persons.
      5.   Questions and/or commentary shall take place in a professional
manner which displays mutual respect.
      6.   Profanity shall not be used in any form or manner.
      7.   Questions or comments regarding specific elected officials, officers
or employees of the Municipality or specific positions established by the
Municipality or the Illinois Municipal Code will not be entertained. Questions
of this type may be addressed, in writing, to the presiding officer, who shall
determine the appropriate method of response.
   (B)   Members of the audience shall not engage in conversation while the
meetings of the Village Board are in session, and shall not ask questions or
make comments except as permitted by these rules during the public comment
portion of any meeting.
   (C)   Members of the audience will not be permitted free movement about the
meeting room while meetings of the Village Board are in session. Members of the
audience may enter and leave the meeting room at any time, provided such
entrance or exit is made quietly and in an orderly fashion.
   (D)   Cameras, including still cameras, movie cameras, and television
cameras using flashlights or lighting equipment other than the normal light
furnished in the meeting room will not be allowed while meetings of the Village
Board are in session unless otherwise permitted by the presiding officer.
   (E)   Battery operated recording equipment will be permitted, provided the
operation thereof is silent. The microphone or pick up shall not be placed in
the section of the meeting room designated for the Board of Trustees unless
otherwise permitted by the presiding officer.
   (F)   No equipment may be set up or used in any manner so as to obstruct the
view of any person in the audience.
   (G) Individuals who appear to be visibly intoxicated or under the influence
of alcohol or drugs shall not be allowed to attend a Village Board meeting or
address the Village Board.
   (H)   The consumption of any solid or liquid food product, chewing tobacco
or dipping, vaping, or the smoking or use of any tobacco or marijuana product
is prohibited at any meeting of the village board while such meetings are in
session.
   (I)   The presiding officer at each meeting of the Village Board or his or
her designee shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
section and shall be empowered to reprimand and/or eject any and all persons
violating the provisions of this section.
   (J)   Excluding sworn and otherwise authorized personnel of the River Grove
Police Department, no person shall possess any firearm at any meeting of the
village board.
(Ord. 1985-1, 2-7-1985; amd. Ord. 1987-6, 5-7-1987; Ord. 2002, 11-7-2002; Ord.
2007-12, 6-21-2007; Ord. 2016-10, 7-7-2016; Ord. 2017-07, 5-18-2017; Ord. 2019-
20, 8-1-2019; Ord. 2016-10, 7-7-2016; Ord. 2023-27, 11-16-2023)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-6-1: President Elected
1-6-2: Bond of President
1-6-3: President; Duties
1-6-4: Supervision
1-6-5: Power to Appoint
1-6-6: Authorized Signer
1-6-7: Presiding Officer
1-6-8: President Pro Tem
1-6-9: Compensation
1-6-1: PRESIDENT ELECTED:
The President shall be elected for a term provided by Statute and shall be
President of the Board of Trustees.
1-6-2: BOND OF PRESIDENT:
That the President shall before he enters upon the duties of his office,
execute a bond to the Village of River Grove in the sum of two thousand
($2,000.00) dollars with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees
conditioned as prescribed by law.
1-6-3: PRESIDENT; DUTIES:
He shall sign all commissions and permits issued by the Board of Trustees and
grant all licenses, except as otherwise provided by law and ordinance, and he
shall perform other acts as may be required by law. 1
 
Notes
  1. S.H.A.
  3-8-1
1 1. S.H.A.
  3-9-3
  1. S.H.A. 3-12-2
   
1-6-4: SUPERVISION:
He shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the Village of River Grove,
examine the grounds of all reasonable complaints made against any of them, and
cause all their violations of duty and other neglects to be reported to the
Board of Trustees for correction.
1-6-5: POWER TO APPOINT:
He shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
all officers whose appointment is not by the laws of this State, or the
ordinances of this Village otherwise provided for, and whenever a vacancy shall
happen in any office, which by law or ordinance he is empowered to fill, he
shall within thirty (30) days after the happening of such vacancy communicate
to said Board of Trustees the name of his appointee to such office, and pending
the concurrence of the Board of Trustees in such appointment, the President may
appoint some suitable person to discharge the duties of such office. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 3-12-1
1-6-6: AUTHORIZED SIGNER:
That he shall be, and is hereby authorized to sign in behalf of the Village,
all instruments necessary to the prompt prosecution or defense of any or all
actions brought by or against said Village, including bonds for injunction. 2
 
Notes
2 2. S.H.A.
  8-1-8
1-6-7: PRESIDING OFFICER:
That he shall preside at all meetings of said Board and shall not vote, except
in cases of a tie, where he shall give the casting vote, and that he shall
perform the duties and exercise the powers conferred by the laws of this State,
upon the President of a Villager and such other acts and duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
1-6-8: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the Village President, the Board of
Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as President Pro Tem, who, during
such absence or disability, shall possess the powers of Village President.
1-6-9: COMPENSATION:
Compensation to be such as is fixed by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 1)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election, Oath, Salary and Bond
1-7-2: Keep Corporate Seal
1-7-3: Read Petitions, Bills
1-7-4: Deliver Resolutions to Trustees
1-7-5: Deliver Ordinances to President
1-7-6: Grant and Issue Licenses
1-7-7: Keep Records of Licenses
1-7-8: Notify Persons Elected or Appointed
1-7-9: Attend Meetings
1-7-9.1:    Prepare Agenda
1-7-10: Deliver Licenses
1-7-11: Keeper of Seal
1-7-12: File Ordinance of Tax Levy
1-7-13: Sign Requisitions for Materials
1-7-14: Compensation
1-7-15: Deputy Clerk
1-7-1: ELECTION, OATH, SALARY AND BOND:
The Village Clerk to be elected for such term as may be provided by Statute,
and shall take the Statutory Oath of Office. He shall receive such compensation
commensurate with his services as may be provided from time to time by
ordinance. The Village Clerk shall before entering upon the duties of his
office, execute to the Village of River Grove, a bond in the penal sum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00), with sureties to be approved by the Board of
Trustees, conditioned as provided by law. (Chapter 2, Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-2: KEEP CORPORATE SEAL:
In addition to the duties now imposed upon the officer by law, he shall affix
the Corporate Seal to all papers which shall require it. He shall also sign and
issue all licenses and permits, in compliance with the ordinances of the
Village, or as so ordered by the President, Board of Trustees or other proper
officer of the Village. He shall sign, seal and number all bonds issued by the
Village, and keep a true and correct account of the same. (Chapter 2, Revised
Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-3: READ PETITIONS, BILLS:
All petitions, remonstrances, bids, bills or other communications, addressed to
the President or Board of Trustees, shall be received by the Clerk and read by
him, at the meeting of the Board of Trustees next succeeding their receipt by
him, unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Trustees. (Chapter 2, Revised
Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-4: DELIVER RESOLUTIONS TO TRUSTEES:
He shall without delay deliver to the Officers of the Village and to the proper
committee of the Board of Trustees, all resolutions and communications referred
to such officers or committees by the Board of Trustees. (Chapter 2, Revised
Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-5: DELIVER ORDINANCES TO PRESIDENT:
He shall without delay deliver to the President, all ordinances or resolutions
under his charge which may require approval or action by the President, with
all the papers relating to same. (Chapter 2, Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-6: GRANT AND ISSUE LICENSES:
All applications for licenses to be issued by the Village shall be made to the
Clerk, who shall have power to hear and grant applications therefor, and each
and every license authorized or required by an ordinance of this Village shall
be issued by the Clark upon the proper application therefor and the payment to
him of the amount of the license fee as provided in the several ordinances of
this Village 1 . (Chapter 2, Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-40.
1-7-7: KEEP RECORDS OF LICENSES:
He shall keep a full record of all licenses granted, transferred or revoked by
authority of the Board of Trustees, with the date that the same were granted,
transferred or revoked (and if revoked, the cause therefor), with the number
thereof, and full name and residence of applicants for such licenses, in a book
to be kept by him for that purpose, and, where bonds are required, the names of
the bondsmen or sureties. (Chapter 2, Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-8: NOTIFY PERSONS ELECTED OR APPOINTED:
It shall be the duty of the Clerk within five (5) days after the result of any
election is declared or appointment made, to notify all persons elected or
appointed to any Village office, of their election or appointment, and unless
such persons shall respectively qualify in ten (10) days after such notice, the
office shall become vacant. (Chapter 2, Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-9: ATTEND MEETINGS:
He shall attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees and keep a full record of
all proceedings in the Journal; keep all records, receive mark and properly
file all papers coming to his office belonging to the Village; grant certified
copies from the records or papers of the Village, and execute such orders as he
may receive from the Board of Trustees. He shall also within a month after they
are passed, cause all ordinances of the Village imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation, to be published in
such newspaper as the Board of Trustees shall designate. (Chapter 2, Revised
Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-9.1: PREPARE AGENDA:
He shall prepare an agenda of each regular meeting of the Board of Trustees.
Such agenda shall be posted at least forty eight (48) hours in advance of such
meeting in the Village office.
   (A)   The following rules shall apply to the preparation of an agenda and
all items to appear thereon:
      1.   All items intended to be included on an agenda shall be delivered to
the Clerk, in writing, at the Village office during normal business hours, no
later than seventy two (72) hours in advance of the meeting.
      2.   The Clerk shall submit a copy of the proposed agenda to the
President prior to its being posted.
      3.   The presence of an item on an agenda for a meeting does not require
its consideration at the meeting.
      4.   The posting of the agenda for a meeting does not preclude the
consideration of items not specifically set forth in the posted agenda at the
meeting. (Ord. 1994-10, 12-15-94)
1-7-10: DELIVER LICENSES:
He shall prepare and deliver all licenses and bonds on receipt of the required
sums of money therefor; countersign all warrants and deliver the same when
called for, taking a proper receipt for the same, and generally do and perform
such other duties as may be required of him by the Board of Trustees and the
provisions of this Code. (Chapter 2, Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-11: KEEPER OF SEAL:
He shall be the custodian and keeper of the Corporate Seal and of all the
books, records, ordinances and papers of the Village except as otherwise
provided by law. (Chapter 2, Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-12: FILE ORDINANCE OF TAX LEVY:
It shall be the duty of the Clerk, within the time prescribed by law, in each
year, to file with the County Clerk of Cook County, Illinois, a certified copy
of the ordinances in which the total amount of appropriations for all Corporate
purposes of the Village legally made, are levied and assessed. (Chapter 2,
Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-13: SIGN REQUISITIONS FOR MATERIALS:
If it becomes necessary at any time to order goods, materials, supplies or
labor for the Village and the cost thereof shall not exceed twenty five dollars
($25.00), the same shall be done by requisition signed by the Clerk and
approved by the Chairman of the Committee under whose jurisdiction the goods,
materials or supplies are to be purchased or the labor is to be performed.
Duplicate of all such requisitions shall be kept by the Clerk and presented,
with the approval of the Committee Chairman as aforesaid noted thereon, at the
next meeting of the President and Board of Trustees. If, as and when the
requisition is presented and approved by the President and Board of Trustees at
a meeting thereof, it shall then become an obligation of the Village and not
otherwise. (Chapter 2, Revised Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-14: COMPENSATION:
For the faithful performance of all duties required of the Clerk by the
Statutes of the State and provisions of this Code, and in lieu of all fees and
compensation allowed him by the Statutes of the State as full compensation for
all services required or imposed by any or all laws, and also as full
compensation for all additional duties imposed or services required by any such
statutes or ordinances, shall be allowed and paid such sum or sums per annum as
the board of trustees shall annually appropriate in each fiscal year, to be
paid in equal monthly installments. The said clerk shall pay into the treasury
of the village all fees collected by him, and also all fees and compensation
paid to him by any person for his services as such village clerk for certified
copies of documents, or otherwise or in the discharge of the duties
hereinbefore mentioned, and he shall make such payments to the treasurer of
such fees and all other monies of the village received or collected by him. The
said clerk shall also report to the board of trustees at each regular meeting,
the amount of all monies received and turned over by him, showing by whom and
for what purpose the respective amounts were paid to him. (Chapter 2, Revised
Ord. 1939 Code)
1-7-15: DEPUTY CLERK:
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of deputy clerk. The village clerk,
with the approval and consent of the president and board of trustees, is
authorized to appoint the number of deputy clerks necessary to discharge the
functions and duties of the office of municipal clerk, and each such deputy
clerk shall have the power and duty to execute all documents required by any
law or ordinance to be executed by the clerk, and affix the seal of the village
thereto whenever required. A person need not be a resident of the village to
serve as a deputy clerk.
   (B)   When signing any documents, any deputy clerk shall sign the name of
the village clerk followed by the word "By" and the deputy clerk's own name and
the words "Deputy Clerk".
   (C)   The powers and duties herein described shall be exercised by any such
deputy clerk only in the absence of the village clerk from his or her office in
the village office, and only when either written direction has been given by
the village clerk to exercise such power, or the board of trustees has
determined by resolution that the village clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such function.
   (D)   Any deputy clerk shall have the authority and power herein described,
and such further power and authority as may be provided by statute, and shall
receive such compensation for these services as the board of trustees may from
time to time fix. (Ord. 2005-25, 10-20-2005)
CHAPTER 8
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office of Attorney Created
1-8-2: President Shall Appoint
1-8-3: Appointment Confirmed by Trustees
1-8-4: Attorney's Duties
1-8-5: Attend Meetings
1-8-6: Give Opinion
1-8-7: Keep Books and Records
1-8-8: Bond
1-8-9: Compensation
1-8-10: Assistant Attorneys
1-8-1: OFFICE OF ATTORNEY CREATED:
The office of Village of Attorney is hereby created. The holder of said office
shall be known and designated Corporation Counsel. (1-8-10; amd. Ord. 1985-1,
2-7-85)
1-8-2: PRESIDENT SHALL APPOINT:
The President of the Village shall appoint such Village Attorney within three
(3) months after an election, and in the event that no such appointment is
made, the Village Attorney then acting shall continue to act until his
successor is appointed and qualified. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 3-14-1.
1-8-3: APPOINTMENT CONFIRMED BY TRUSTEES:
Such appointment shall be ratified and confirmed by the Board of Trustees
before becoming effective.
1-8-4: ATTORNEY'S DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to give the necessary attention to
all suits or judicial proceedings in which the Village of River Grove is a
party or directly interested. He shall appear as the Attorney in behalf of any
officer of the Village in any suit, prosecution or other judicial proceeding
brought by or against such officer in his official character, and as the case
may require, shall prosecute or defend to the termination thereof.
1-8-5: ATTEND MEETINGS:
He shall attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees, and on or before its
first meeting in April of each year, make a report in writing to the said
Board, duly verified by his oath if required, of all suits, prosecutions or
actions prosecuted or defended by him, during the preceding year, of the names
of the parties thereto, of the title of the courts in which they were
commenced, of their progress and final disposition, and other information
concerning the legal interests of the Village which he may deem necessary or
proper, and perform such services as may be required of him by the President.
1-8-6: GIVE OPINION:
He shall give his legal opinions in writing, to the Board of Trustees, or
committees thereof, or the President, when requested, on legal questions
arising under or concerning any ordinance of the Village, and on legal
questions and subjects in which the Village shall be legally interested.
1-8-7: KEEP BOOKS AND RECORDS:
He shall keep in proper books provided for the purpose, a docket of all suits
prosecuted or defended by him, in which shall be briefly entered all steps
taken in each case, and such books and records shall be the property of the
Village.
1-8-8: BOND:
He shall execute a bond with sureties satisfactory to the Board of Trustees in
the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the faithful discharge of his
duties.
1-8-9: COMPENSATION:
He shall receive for his services generally such salary as shall be
appropriated in the General Appropriation Ordinances and Tax Levy Ordinances of
this Village, payable quarterly, and shall further receive, for his services in
special work and in special assessment proceedings, such a sum out of the
percentage fixed by law for the costs and expenses of such proceedings as shall
be allowed by the President and Board of Trustees in each preceding, and shall
further receive, for his legal services in connection with public improvements,
such other and further compensation as may be allowed by statute or set by
resolution duly adopted by the President and Board of Trustees, at or during
the time the public improvement is contemplated or undertaken. (1-8-10)
1-8-10: ASSISTANT ATTORNEYS:
That the President and Board of Trustees may, by resolution or motion, appoint
special counsel to assist and collaborate with the Village Attorney when it is
deemed for the best interests of the Village, to represent the Village or any
officer of said Village in any suit or other judicial proceeding brought by or
against the Village or any such Officer, and may, from time to time, by
resolution, fix fair and reasonable fees to be paid to such special counsel for
professional services rendered or to be rendered in said behalf; said fees to
be paid out of the amount set forth in the General Appropriation Ordinances and
Tax Levy Ordinances under the designation and title of: "Legal Fees Not
Otherwise Provided For". (7-2-53)
CHAPTER 9
TREASURER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Office Created; Term
1-9-2: Oath; Bond
1-9-3: Duties; Accounts; Receipts
1-9-4: Special Funds to be Kept Separate
1-9-5: To Report Delinquent Officers
1-9-6: Records
1-9-7: Warrants; Duplicate Warrants; Register
1-9-8: Checks; Vouchers
1-9-9: Annual Statement
1-9-10: Municipal Bonds; How Registered
1-9-11: Salary of Treasurer
1-9-12: Assistant Treasurer
1-9-13: Bond
1-9-14: Duties, Compensation
1-9-1: OFFICE CREATED; TERM:
There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer of the Village of River
Grove. He shall hold his office for the term of one year and until his
successor shall be appointed and qualified. He shall be appointed by the
President by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A.
  3-8-1
1-9-2: OATH; BOND:
The Village Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall
take the oath prescribed by law for the Village officers and shall execute a
bond to the Village of River Grove in such penal sum as the Board of Trustees
shall fix with at least two good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the
Board of Trustees, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of
his office and the payment of all moneys received by him, according to law and
the ordinances of said Village.
1-9-3: DUTIES; ACCOUNTS; RECEIPTS:
The Treasurer shall receive all moneys and the interest thereon belonging to
the Village and shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and
the debts and credits belonging thereto. He shall issue a receipt to every
person paying money into the Village treasury, specifying the date of payment
and upon what account paid, and he shall file a copy of all such receipts with
the Village Clerk. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 3-10-1
1-9-4: SPECIAL FUNDS TO BE KEPT SEPARATE:
All moneys received by the Village Treasurer on any special assessment or
special tax shall be held by him as a special fund to be applied to the payment
of the improvement for which said special assessment or special tax was made,
and said money shall be used for no other purpose whatever except to reimburse
the Village for money expended for such improvement.
He shall also keep in a special fund all moneys raised by taxation for the
maintenance of any public institution or for any special purpose.
1-9-5: TO REPORT DELINQUENT OFFICERS:
It shall be the duty of the Village Treasurer to report to the Village Clerk
and the Finance Committee any officer authorized to receive money for the use
of the Village who may fail to make a return of the moneys received by him at a
time required by law or by the ordinances of said Village.
1-9-6: RECORDS:
Said Treasurer shall keep his books in such a manner as to show with entire
accuracy all moneys received and disbursed by him for the Village, stating from
whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what account paid out,
and in such a way that said books and accounts will exhibit at all times the
true financial condition of the Village and in such a manner as may be readily
investigated and understood; and the same, together with all the files and
papers of said office, shall at all times be open to examination by the
President, the Village Clerk, the Finance Committee and to any member of the
Board of Trustees.
1-9-7: WARRANTS; DUPLICATE WARRANTS; REGISTER:
All warrants drawn upon the Treasurer must be signed by the President and
countersigned by the Clerk, stating the particular fund or appropriation to
which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable; and no money shall
be paid except upon such warrants so drawn, except as otherwise provided by
law.
Whenever any Village warrant shall be lost or destroyed so that it cannot be
presented to the Treasurer for payment by the person entitled thereto, such
person shall apply by petition to the Board of Trustees for relief, and said
Board may order the Clerk to issue a duplicate warrant to said person so
entitled to payment upon his filing an affidavit of the loss or destruction of
the original and giving bond and security to the Village to refund the amount
of such warrant and pay all costs in case the original or lost warrant should
be presented and said Village be compelled to pay same.
The Village Treasurer shall keep an accurate register of all warrants redeemed
and paid by him, showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from
which paid, the name of the person to whom paid and the date of payment. He
shall cancel all warrants as soon as redeemed by him. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 3-10-2
1-9-8: CHECKS; VOUCHERS:
All checks drawn against Village funds must be drawn on checks with attached
vouchers, and said vouchers shall be complete as to all necessary information
concerning the expenditure for which said check is drawn.
All invoices, after having been approved by the Finance Committee, shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
1-9-9: ANNUAL STATEMENT:
The Village Treasurer, annually, between the first and tenth day of May, shall
make and file with the Village Clerk a full and detailed account of all
receipts and expenditures of said Village and of all his transactions as such
Treasurer, during the preceding fiscal year, and shall show in such account the
state of the treasury at the close of the fiscal year.
Said report shall be submitted to the Clerk of the Finance Committee for
examination and approval, and said Committee shall thereupon submit same to the
Board of Trustees and shall then be published as a part of the proceedings of
the next regular meeting of the said Board. 2
 
Notes
2 2. S.H.A. 3-10-5
1-9-10: MUNICIPAL BONDS; HOW REGISTERED:
The Treasurer is hereby authorized to register any bond of the Village of River
Grove payable to the bearer, and same having been presented for that purpose by
the owner, and thereafter such bond shall become payable only to the party
named in such endorsement, his assignees or legal representatives, anything on
the face of such bond to the contrary notwithstanding. The affidavit of the
party presenting such bond, or his authorized agent or attorney, that he is the
owner thereof, shall be sufficient evidence to the Treasurer of such ownership.
The endorsement shall be as follows:
"By An Act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, An Ordinance of
the Village of River Grove, and the consent (C.D.) of the owner of this bond,
this bond is made payable only to said (C.D.) owner, his assignee or legal
representatives, anything on the face thereof to the contrary notwithstanding.
(A.B.) Treasurer."
A fee of twenty-five cents ($.25) may be charged for the endorsement of all
bonds and a fee of five cents ($.05) for each coupon.
The Treasurer shall keep a record in a register of all bonds and coupons
endorsed and to whom payable.
The owner of such registered bond or bonds may reconvert them, payable to the
bearer thereof, in the same manner as prescribed in the first instance using
the word "Bearer" instead of the assignee's name.
1-9-11: SALARY OF TREASURER:
The Village Treasurer shall receive such salary, for his services, as the Board
of Trustees shall from time to time fix. (Rev. Ord.; 1939)
1-9-12: ASSISTANT TREASURER:
The Village Treasurer may, with the approval and consent of the President and
Board of Trustees, appoint a Deputy who shall be known as the Assistant
Treasurer and who shall hold office at the pleasure of the Treasurer but in no
event beyond the term of the Treasurer.
1-9-13: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Assistant Treasurer shall
execute a bond in such amount and with surety required by the President and
Board of Trustees.
1-9-14: DUTIES; COMPENSATION:
The Assistant Treasurer shall perform the duties of the Treasurer in the event
of the absence or disability of the Treasurer. He shall receive such
compensation as the President and Board of Trustees shall from time to time
fix. (Ord. 1965-4; 2-4-65)
CHAPTER 10
COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-10-1: Office Created and Bond
1-10-2: Execute Warrants
1-10-3: Report Monthly to Board of Trustees
1-10-4: Keep Books
1-10-5: Annual Statement
1-10-6: Compensation
1-10-7: Penalty for Violation of Duty
1-10-1: OFFICE CREATED AND BOND:
There is hereby created the office of Collector for the Village of River Grove
and the said Collector shall, before entering upon the duties of his office,
execute to the Village of River Grove, a bond in the penal sum of an amount to
be determined and approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned for the
faithful discharge of the duties of his office.
1-10-2: EXECUTE WARRANTS:
The Collector shall execute all special assessment and other warrants which by
law and the ordinances of this Village may be directed to him, and shall
perform such other duties as are or may hereafter be imposed upon him by law or
the ordinances of the Village.
1-10-3: REPORT MONTHLY TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
Said Collector shall, upon the first day of each and every month, or oftener,
if required, submit a report to the Board of Trustees of all moneys collected
by him, and shall, on Monday of each week, pay over to the Village Treasurer
all moneys collected by him from any source whatever, taking such Treasurer's
receipt thereof in duplicate.
1-10-4: KEEP BOOKS:
He shall keep books and accounts, which shall show all the receipts and moneys
received by him, and other matters pertaining to his office; such books to be
kept at a place convenient and accessible to the Board of Trustees and in a
clear and methodical manner, and open at all times to the inspection of any
member of the Board of Trustees, and he shall keep such books as the Board of
Trustees shall from time to time direct.
1-10-5: ANNUAL STATEMENT:
He shall annually between the first and tenth of April of each year, file with
the Village Clerk a statement of all moneys collected by him during the year,
particular warrants, special assessments or accounts on which collected, the
balance of moneys uncollected on all warrants in his hands, and the balance
remaining uncollected at the time of the return of all warrants which he shall
have returned during the preceding fiscal year to the Village Clerk.
1-10-6: COMPENSATION:
Said Collector shall be entitled to receive for his services as such Collector
such compensation as shall be from time to time prescribed by law, by
resolution of the said Board of Trustees or in the annual appropriation bill.
1-10-7: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF DUTY:
Said Collector is hereby prohibited from keeping the moneys collected by him in
his hands, or in the hands of any other person, to his use, beyond the time
which is prescribed for the payment of the same to the Village Treasurer, and
any violation of this provision shall subject him to immediate removal from
office by the Board of Trustees. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 11
COMPTROLLER
SECTION:
1-11-1: Creation
1-11-2: Powers and Duties Generally
1-11-3: Annual Statement
1-11-4: Annual Report
1-11-5: Purchases
1-11-6: Subordination of Authority
1-11-7: Bond
1-11-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created the office of Village Comptroller, who shall be the
chief financial officer of the Village. He shall be appointed by the President
by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees and shall receive
such compensation as may be fixed by ordinance.
1-11-2: POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
The Village Comptroller shall be the fiscal agent of the Village and as such
shall exercise general supervision over all officers of the Village charged in
any manner with the receipt, collection or disbursement of the Village revenue
or with the collection and return of the Village revenue into the treasury. He
shall have charge of all deeds, mortgages, leases, contracts, judgment orders,
notes, bonds and evidence of indebtedness belonging to the Village, except such
as are directed by law or ordinance to be deposited elsewhere. He shall have
supervision over the contracts, bonds, obligations, loans and liabilities of
the Village and over all property of the Village including the sale or
disposition thereof. He shall have the authority to execute, in the name of the
Village, all necessary releases of claims, the settlement of which has been
authorized.
1-11-3: ANNUAL STATEMENT:
On or before the fifteenth day of May of each year, he shall prepare and submit
to the President and Board of Trustees an annual statement showing in detail
all receipts, disbursements and financial transactions of the Village during
the preceding fiscal year.
1-11-4: ANNUAL REPORT:
On or before the fifteenth day of May of each year, and before the annual
appropriation ordinance is prepared by the corporate authorities, he shall
submit to the corporate authorities a report of his estimate, as nearly as may
be, of the money necessary to defray the expenses of the Municipality during
the current fiscal year in the manner and form required by law.
1-11-5: PURCHASES:
All supplies and equipment needed by any department or agency of the Village
shall, subject to the approval of the President and Board of Trustees, be
purchased by the Comptroller. He shall have the authority to expend therefor an
amount not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) in an emergency when
immediate action is called for, without prior consent of the President and
Board of Trustees, provided that a written report of such emergency purchase be
submitted to the President and Board of Trustees as soon after the making of
such purchase as practicable.
1-11-6: SUBORDINATION OF AUTHORITY:
Any power or authority granted to the Comptroller by ordinance shall always be
subordinate to that of the President and Board of Trustees.
1-11-7: BOND:
Prior to entering upon the duties of his office, the Comptroller shall execute
a bond in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), payable to the
Village, as required by law. (ch. 5A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 12
ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-12-1: Appointment, Term, Compensation
1-12-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM, COMPENSATION:
The Village Engineer shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees, and shall
hold office until the end of the fiscal year for which he is appointed, and
shall be entitled to such fees and per diem as the Board of Trustees may
determine. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 13
FISCAL YEAR
SECTION:
1-13-1: Fiscal Year
1-13-1: FISCAL YEAR:
   (A)   Beginning on January 1, 2018, the Village's fiscal year shall commence
on January 1 and end on December 31, 2018.
   (B)   All future fiscal years shall correspond with the calendar year (i.e.,
begin on January 1 and end on December 31). (Ord. 2017-05, 4-20-2017)
CHAPTER 14
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-14-1: Elections
1-14-2: Term of Office
1-14-1: ELECTIONS:
Elections of Village Officers shall be held at a time and in the manner
provided by State Statute. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
1-14-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
All Village Officers shall take office on May 1, next, after their election and
shall hold office for the term fixed by Statute. (Ord. 1981-4, 4-2-81)
CHAPTER 15
SEAL
SECTION:
1-15-1: Construction
1-15-2: Uses; Custody
1-15-1: CONSTRUCTION:
The Corporate Seal of the Village shall be circular in form with two (2)
circles, one within the other, formed by a "dot" and a "rope" design, in the
center of which shall be the words, "Incorporated 1888" and within the two (2)
circles formed shall be the words, "Village of River Grove, Illinois".
1-15-2: USES; CUSTODY:
The said seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Clerk of said Village
and his successor in office, to be used by him in all cases provided for by the
provisions of this Code or the laws of the State of Illinois, and in all such
other cases where by the laws and customs of any State or Nation the use of the
Corporate Seal of said Village becomes necessary. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 16
COORDINATOR OF YOUTH ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
1-16-1: Creation
1-16-2: Powers And Duties
1-16-3: Compensation
1-16-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created the office of village coordinator of youth activities,
who shall be appointed by the president by and with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees. (Ord. 1965-12, 5-20-1965)
1-16-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The coordinator shall have the following powers and perform the following
duties:
   (A)   He shall be the official representative of the board of trustees of
the village to all organizations and groups within the village, or sponsoring
activities within the village, in any manner affecting the youth of the
village.
   (B)   He shall consult and advise with such organization and groups and
shall report to the board of trustees monthly concerning their activities and
needs.
   (C)   He shall endeavor to coordinate the various activities of such
organizations and groups into a general overall plan of youth activity for the
village to eliminate, insofar as may be possible, overlapping and conflict in
programs and duplication in effort.
   (D)   He shall recommend to the board of trustees such action as he feels
necessary or advisable to promote and assist the overall plan.
   (E)   He may, with the consent of the board of trustees, appoint an advisory
committee of village residents to assist him, which committee shall serve
without compensation and at the pleasure of the board of trustees. (Ord. 1965-
12, 5-20-1965)
1-16-3: COMPENSATION:
The coordinator shall receive for his services such compensation as the board
of trustees may from time to time fix and in addition may be reimbursed for any
approved personal expense incurred in the performance of his duties. (Ord.
1965-12, 5-20-1965)
CHAPTER 17
PERSONNEL CODE
SECTION:
1-17-1: Structure And Administration Of Personnel Policies
1-17-2: Equal Employment Opportunity
1-17-3: Whistleblower Protection Policy
1-17-4: The Employment Relationship
1-17-5: Work Week And Hours of Work
1-17-6: Pay And Overtime
1-17-7: Leaves Of Absence
1-17-8: Workplace Guidelines
1-17-9: Performance And Discipline
1-17-10: Employee Grievances And Dispute Resolution
1-17-11: Separation From Employment
1-17-12: Employment Benefits
1-17-13: Employee Acknowledgment
1-17-1: STRUCTURE AND ADMINISTRATION OF PERSONNEL POLICIES:
   A.   Organization of the Village.
      1.   The Village of River Grove is organized and operates under the
Illinois Municipal Code, Chapter 65 of the Illinois Revised Statutes. By
ordinance, the Village has adopted the President-Trustee form of government.
      2.   The Village President, six (6) Trustees and the Village Clerk are
elected representatives of the Village of River Grove. The President and
Trustees, acting as the Village Board, serve as the legislative body of the
Village. In addition, the Village President serves as the chief executive
officer of the Village. The Village Board is responsible for enacting
ordinances regulating the affairs of the Village and for formulating and
executing the overall policy of Village government.
      3.   The Village President, with the concurrence of the Trustees,
appoints all municipal officials and department heads of the Village. These
include but are not limited to, Corporation Counsel, Comptroller, Director of
Police Services and Director of Emergency Services, Director of Public Works,
Director of Human Resources, Recreation Director and Building Commissioner. In
addition, the Village President, with the approval of the Trustees, appoints
citizens to various boards and commissions which act in an advisory capacity to
the Board in various functional areas.
      4.   The Village Board directs and coordinates the activities and
operations of the various operating department of the Village. This work is
carried out by the Board acting as a whole, or by various committees of the
Board.
      5.   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, whose members are
appointed by the Village President with the approval of the Trustees, is
responsible for overseeing the selection, appointment and discipline of sworn
full time members of the police department (and full time members of the fire
department, if any). The personnel policies and procedures contained in this
code are intended to complement, rather than contradict, the rules and
regulations of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, any General Orders
of the Police Department and Fire Department. Where the provisions of any
applicable collective bargaining agreement differ from this code, the
collective bargaining agreement prevails. Where a collective bargaining
agreement is silent on a topic covered in this Personnel Code, the terms of
this Personnel Code shall apply.
      6.   This Personnel Code contains the personnel practices and policies
for employees of the Village of River Grove. This code is not all inclusive.
The Village of River Grove may also adopt policies, practices and forms to be
used in the administration of the Village’s personnel policies and each
department is authorized to adopt and enforce rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this code.
      7.   This code has been adopted by the President and Board of Trustees
and no employee may alter the terms of this code without the approval of the
corporate authorities of the Village.
      8.   The President and Board of Trustees reserves the right to amend any
or all of the provisions in this Personnel Code from time to time, when in
their sole discretion, such action is deemed advisable.
   B.   Construction of Personnel Code/Employment at Will.
      1.   This Personnel Code is neither intended to nor shall create or be
construed to create an employment agreement, express or implied, or terms of a
contract.
      2.   Employment at the Village of River Grove is on an at-will basis
unless otherwise stated in a validly adopted collective bargaining agreement,
or other agreement approved by the corporate authorities. Employment at will
means that either the employee or the Village may terminate the employment
relationship at any time, for any reason, with or without notice. Nothing in
this or any other document provided to the employee is intended to be, nor
shall be construed as a contract that employment or any benefit will be
continued for any period of time.
      3.   This policy shall not be construed to negate or conflict with any
applicable collective bargaining agreement. To the extent that any collective
bargaining agreement is more or less restrictive than the provisions in this
Personnel Code, the terms of the collective bargaining agreement shall apply to
the members of the bargaining unit.
      4.   Nothing in this statement is intended to interfere with, restrain,
or prevent concerted activity as protected by the National Labor Relations Act,
or the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. Such activity includes employee
communications regarding wages, hours, or other terms or conditions of
employment. Village of River Grove employees have the right to engage in or
refrain from such activities.
   C.   Administration and Enforcement of Personnel Policies.
      1.   The Director of Human Resources is charged with the responsibility
of administering and enforcing this code, and for developing and implementing
forms and practices to administer the Village’s employment policies and
practices.
      2.   Subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees, the Village
President has final authority on personnel matters for the Village, except for
full time sworn police officers and any full time firefighters who are under
the authority of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
      3.   It is the responsibility of each Department Director to read and
understand this code on an annual basis, and to work cooperatively with the
Director of Human Resources to enforce and comply with the provisions in this
code.
      4.   Each and every employee must sign an Acknowledgment of Receipt and
Review of the Village of River Grove Personnel Code. The Director of Human
Resources shall keep a record of each employee’s signed Acknowledgment in each
employee’s Personnel File. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-2: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY:
   A.   Policy Against Sexual Harassment, Discrimination and Harassment Based
on Protected Status
      1.   General Policy.
         a.   The Village of River Grove is committed to equal employment
opportunity and to compliance with federal and state antidiscrimination laws.
The Village prohibits sexual harassment, discrimination, and harassment based
on an individual’s Protected Status. This prohibition protects employees and
applicants for employment.
         b.   All employees are responsible for creating a work environment
free from discrimination and sexual harassment. Employees are advised that
submission to discrimination, harassment or sexual harassment shall not be an
explicit or implicit condition of employment and that submission to or
rejection of such conduct shall not be used as a basis for making employment
decisions. Employment, and changes to the terms and conditions of employment in
the Village will be based strictly on an individual’s merit, skills and
qualifications.
         c.   Verified offenses are considered misconduct and offenders are
subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination from employment.
      2.   Definitions.
DISCRIMINATION: Unequal terms and conditions of employment based on an
individual’s protected status. Harassment based on one’s Protected Status, and
Sexual Harassment are forms of illegal discrimination.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY: Equal terms and conditions of employment,
including recruitment and selection, placement, segregation, promotion,
transfer, selection for training or apprenticeship, tenure, layoff, recall,
leaves of absence, compensation, discharge and discipline to all employees and
applicants for employment without regard to the person’s Protected Status.
HARASSMENT: Unwelcome conduct that is based on an individual’s Protected
Status. Harassment is illegal when; 1) enduring the offensive conduct becomes a
condition of continued employment, or 2) the conduct is severe or pervasive
enough to create a work environment that a reasonable person would consider
intimidating, hostile, or abusive, or that interferes with an employee’s
ability to perform his or her job duties. Petty slights, annoyances, and
isolated incidents (unless serious) will not rise to the level of illegality.
It is not possible to list all prohibited activities, but examples of
harassment include offensive jokes, slurs, name calling, intimidation, insults,
ridicules or mockery, making threats, stereotyping, isolating, interfering with
work performance, hostile acts that relate to any individual’s Protected
Status, or the display or posting in the workplace or on Village property of
written or graphic materials that negatively represent or show hostility or
aversion toward an individual or group because of their Protected Status.
Harassment can occur in a variety of circumstances, including, but not limited
to, the following:
   The harasser can be the victim’s supervisor, a supervisor in another area,
an agent of the employer, a co-worker, or a non-employee.
   The victim does not have to be the person harassed, but can be anyone
affected by the offensive conduct.
   Unlawful harassment may occur without economic injury to, or discharge of,
the victim.
PROTECTED STATUS: Race, color, sex (including married women and unmarried
mothers), religion, age (40 or older), national origin, ancestry, marital
status, protective order status, military status, unfavorable discharge from
military service, sexual orientation (including actual or perceived orientation
and gender identity), citizenship status, genetic information, ancestry,
religion, pregnancy (including childbirth or medical or common conditions
related to pregnancy or childbirth, past pregnancy condition and the potential
or intention to become pregnant), certain arrest or criminal history records,
homelessness (i.e., lack of a permanent mailing address or a mailing address
that is a shelter or social services provider) and use of lawful products
outside of work during nonworking hours, or any other characteristic protected
by applicable federal, state or local law.
SEXUAL HARASSMENT: Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors or
conduct of a sexual nature when; (1) submission to such conduct is made either
explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment, (2)
submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the
basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or (3) such conduct
has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual’s
work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment. For purposes of this definition, the phrase “working environment”
is not limited to the physical location an employee is assigned to perform his
or her duties and does not require an employment relationship.
Sexual harassment applies to either sex and may occur between members of the
same sex. Sexual harassment may be a pattern of offensive conduct or a single,
unusually severe incident.
      3.   Examples of Sexual Harassment. It is not possible to list all
circumstances that may constitute sexual harassment, however, the following are
some examples of conduct that, if unwelcome, may constitute sexual harassment
depending on the totality of the circumstances, including the severity of the
conduct and its pervasiveness:
         a.   Sexual assaults and unwanted sexual advances or propositions,
whether they involve physical touching or not;
         b.   Physical contact, whether amorous or hostile, for which there is
no consent express or implied;
         c.   Intimidating words or acts;
         d.   Unwelcome leering, whistling, brushing up against the body,
sexual gestures, or suggestive or insulting comments;
         e.   Sexual or obscene teasing, innuendos, suggestions, or comments,
epithets, jokes, written or oral references to sexual conduct, gossip regarding
one’s sex life, comments about an individual’s body, comments about an
individual’s sexual activity, deficiencies, or prowess;
         f.   Repeated requests for dates;
         g.   Obscene gestures;
         h.   Displaying written or visual nudity, sexually suggestive objects,
pictures, or cartoons;
         i.   Inquiries into one’s sexual experiences;
         j.   Discussion of one’s own sexual activities.
   Conduct need not be directed at a particular individual to constitute sexual
harassment. An employee may be negatively affected by sexual jokes, visual
displays or harassing behavior in the workplace even if the behavior is not
directed at the employee.
   Conditioning job benefits, or promising or suggesting that job benefits are
conditioned on an employee accepting dates or consenting to sexual advances or
conduct, or threatening or denying job benefits or advancement for refusal to
consent to sexual advances is considered quid pro quo sexual harassment and is
prohibited conduct.
      4.   Procedure for Reporting and Investigating Complaints of Sexual
Harassment, Discrimination and Harassment Based on Protected Status.
         a.   Applicability. This procedure applies to all forms of
discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment and harassment based
on Protected Status. The Village cannot stop harassment or discrimination that
it does not know about. Victims of, and witnesses to harassment or
discrimination are therefore requested and encouraged to report the behavior
immediately.
         b.   Reporting. Victims are advised, but not required to first assert
their right to a workplace free from harassment by complaining directly to the
person who is harassing them. This may stop the harassment before it becomes
more serious.
   Employees who are victims of, or witnesses to, harassment must immediately
report the harassment, either verbally or in writing, to the employee’s
department director, or to the Director of Human Resources, or to any other
member of management with whom they feel comfortable bringing such a complaint.
Any supervisor or manager receiving such a complaint shall forward the
complaint to the Director of Human Resources or to the Village President. If
the complaint concerns the Director of Human Resources, the employee may
complain directly to the Village President. If the individual feels the need to
report sexual harassment to someone of their preferred gender, they may speak
to the Director of Human Resources to make appropriate arrangements.
   Employees are also advised that they have the right to contact the Illinois
Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those agencies. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
         c.   Contents of a Report. Employees making a report of harassment
shall provide the name of the person committing the harassment, the specific
nature of the harassment, whether it was a single incident or a pattern of
behavior, any employment action taken as a result of the harassment (demotion,
promotion, reassignment, victimization), dates, times and locations where
harassment has occurred, the identity of any known witnesses to the harassment,
and whether the harassment was previously reported.
   Employees are encouraged to document any incidents and to submit such
documentation with any report (what was said or done, the date, the time and
the place), including, but not limited to, written records such as emails,
letters, notes, memos, photographs and telephone messages.
         d.   Investigation. Upon receipt of a complaint of harassment, the
Director of Human Resources, or if the complaint concerns the Director of Human
Resources, then the Village Attorney or another individual selected by the
Village President, will promptly conduct an investigation of the complaint. The
Village will also investigate complaints of harassment that become known to the
Village indirectly, such as by social media posts or other sources.
            (1)   Any individual selected to investigate a charge of sexual
harassment must have the following attributes:
               A background with no history or record of harassment;
               Knowledge of the Village’s policies and equal employment
opportunity obligations;
               Professionalism and competence to remain impartial, objective,
and fair during the investigation.
            (2)   The investigation of a complaint of harassment will depend on
the seriousness of the allegations, and the specific circumstances, but should
include the following:
               Interview with all parties involved and witnesses;
               A determination of the facts of the incident or incidents
complained of;
               A determination of the validity and seriousness of the charge
and the credibility of witnesses;
               If there is an issue as to whether sexual behavior was welcome
or unwelcome, a finding of fact on that issue;
               In a quid pro quo case, a determination as to whether the stated
reason for the employment decision was a pretext for harassment or
discrimination;
               A written report to the President and Board of Trustees
detailing the facts and circumstances, accompanied by a recommendation for
appropriate corrective action.
         e.   Confidentiality. The Village of River Grove will make every
effort to keep complaints of sexual harassment confidential, but employees are
advised that it may be necessary to reveal the identity of the complainant as
part of the investigation and to allow the respondent the legal right to a
defense.
         f.   Interference. The Village of River Grove prohibits willfully
interfering with the investigation of a complaint of harassment by or about a
Village employee.
         g.   Consequences for Knowingly Making a False Report of Sexual
Harassment. A false report of harassment differs from a report made in good
faith which is not or cannot be proven. A false report is a report of sexual
harassment made by an accuser to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report of sexual harassment shall be subject to
discipline up to and including termination from employment.
   B.   Americans Disabilities Act (ADA) and Reasonable Accommodation. It is
the policy of the Village of River Grove to ensure equal employment
opportunities to qualified individuals with a disability in compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act. This equal employment policy applies to
application procedures, hiring, advancement, discharge, compensation, training,
or other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment. The Village will
reasonably accommodate qualified individuals with a disability who are
employees or applicants for employment, unless to do so would cause the Village
undue hardship. Reasonable accommodation is available regardless of whether an
employee works part- time, full-time, or is considered “probationary.”
      1.   Reasonable Accommodation Defined.
         a.   In general, an accommodation is any change in the work
environment or in the way things are customarily done that enables an
individual with a disability to enjoy equal employment opportunities. There are
three categories of “reasonable accommodations”;
            (1)   Modifications or adjustments to a job application process
that enable a qualified applicant with a disability to be considered for the
position such qualified applicant desires; or
            (2)   Modifications or adjustments to the work environment, or to
the manner or circumstances under which the position held or desired is
customarily performed, that enable a qualified individual with a disability to
perform the essential functions of that position; or
            (3)   Modifications or adjustments that enable an employee with a
disability to enjoy equal benefits and privileges of employment as are enjoyed
by other similarly situated Village employees without disabilities.
         b.   There are a number of possible reasonable accommodations that the
Village may provide in connection with modifications to the work environment or
adjustments in how and when a job is performed. These include:
            (1)   Making existing facilities accessible;
            (2)   Job restructuring;
            (3)   Part-time or modified work schedules;
            (4)   Acquiring or modifying equipment;
            (5)   Changing tests, training materials, or policies;
            (6)   Providing qualified readers or interpreters; and
            (7)   Reassignment to a vacant position.
         c.   A modification or adjustment is “reasonable” if it is feasible,
effective, seems reasonable on its face, and enables the individual to have an
equal opportunity to participate in the application process and to be
considered for a job, or to perform the essential functions of the position, or
to enjoy the benefits and privileges of employment that employees without a
disability enjoy.
         d.   The ADA does not require the Village to eliminate essential
functions of a job, to lower productivity standards or to provide personal use
items, such as glasses or hearing aids that the employee uses off the job.
      2.   Undue Hardship.
         a.   The Village is not obligated to provide a particular
accommodation if it would cause “undue hardship” to the Village. “Undue
hardship” means significant difficulty or expense, considering the size,
nature, resources and circumstances of the Village in relation to the cost or
difficulty of providing the specific accommodation.
         b.   Undue hardship refers not only to financial difficulty, but to
reasonable accommodations that are unduly extensive, substantial, or
disruptive, or those that would fundamentally alter the nature or operation of
the job or the Village’s operations.
      3.   Requesting a Reasonable Accommodation.
         a.   An employee, or applicant for employment, may request a
reasonable accommodation from the Village by contacting the Director of Human
Resources. The request need not be in writing. Employees and applicants can
request an accommodation at any time during the application process or while
employed. New hires can request an accommodation even if they did not ask for
one when applying for a job or after receiving a job offer. In general,
employees should request an accommodation when it becomes apparent that there
is a workplace barrier that prevents the employee or applicant, due to a
disability, from competing for a job, performing a job, or gaining equal access
to a benefit of employment like an employee lunch room or employee parking. As
a practical matter, employees should request an accommodation before their job
performance suffers or conduct problems occur. The Village is not responsible
to rescind discipline that occurred before it knew about an employee’s
disability or need for accommodation.
         b.   The Village may also institute the interactive process if it
becomes aware that an employee has a disability which prevents the employee
from competing for a job, performing a job, or gaining equal access to a
benefit of employment.
      4.   The Interactive Process.
         a.   Following a request for an accommodation, or if the Village has
knowledge that an employee requires a reasonable accommodation, the Director of
Human Resources, the relevant Department Director or supervisor, and the
affected employee will meet for an informal, interactive discussion about the
individual’s needs and the appropriate reasonable accommodation. The Village
may ask the individual relevant questions that will enable it to make an
informed decision about the request. This includes asking what type of
reasonable accommodation is needed.
         b.   The interactive process will differ on a case by case basis. In
some cases, the disability and the type of accommodation required will be
obvious. In others, the Village may need to ask questions about the nature of
the disability and the individual’s functional limitations in order to identify
an effective accommodation. It is the employee’s responsibility to describe the
problems posed by the workplace barrier. The Village will consider the
employee’s suggestion as to the type of reasonable accommodation to provide.
         c.   The Village will assess whether a particular reasonable
accommodation would cause undue hardship on a case-by-case basis. The Village
may request documentation to substantiate disabilities that are not obvious.
      5.   Determinations. The Village will notify the employee or applicant in
writing as to whether a request for a particular accommodation is granted or
denied. If denied, the Village will describe either why the request is not
reasonable, or why it would cause the Village an undue hardship. If a requested
accommodation would result in an undue hardship, the Village and the employee
will attempt to identify an accommodation that does riot cause an undue
hardship, or the Village may offer the employee the option of having the
employee pay for the accommodation.
      6.   Permitted Medical Exams. The Village may require current employees
to submit to medical examinations and/or provide medical certification when job
related and consistent with business necessity, including in the following
instances:
         a.   To determine whether an employee has a disability covered under
the Americans with Disabilities Act when an employee requests an accommodation
and the disability is not obvious;
         b.   To identify possible accommodations when accommodation is
requested under the Americans with Disabilities Act;
         c.   When an employee’s performance and/or behavior suggest the need
to determine whether the employee can continue to perform the essential
functions of the employee’s position, with or without reasonable accommodation;
         d.   To determine the nature, extent and duration of a work-related
injury or illness in accordance with the Workers Compensation Act.
   C.   Victims of Domestic Violence. The Village will provide reasonable
accommodations for qualified employees or applicants for employment who are
victims of domestic or sexual violence, sexual assault or stalking, or who are
the family or household member (i.e., spouse, civil union partner, parent, son,
daughter, other person related by blood or by present or prior marriage, other
person who shares a relationship through a son or daughter or a person jointly
residing in the same household with the employee) of such a victim, unless
providing the accommodation will impose an undue hardship on the Village
operations. Examples of accommodations for victims of domestic violence include
but are not limited to a period of protected leave to heal from mental or
physical injuries, to care for a child who is healing from injuries, or time
off for court, for counseling, or to secure alternative housing for themselves
or their families.
   D.   Religious Accommodations.
      1.   The Village will not impose any condition for obtaining or retaining
employment, including opportunities for promotion, advancement, or transfer, or
any terms or conditions that would require a person to violate or forgo a
sincerely held practice of his or her religion including, but not limited to,
the wearing of any attire, clothing, or facial hair in accordance with the
requirements of his or her religion, unless, after engaging in a bona fide
effort, the Village is unable to reasonably accommodate the employee’s or
prospective employee’s sincerely held religious belief, practice, or observance
without undue hardship on the conduct of the Village’s business.
      2.   This does not prohibit the Village from having a dress and grooming
policy that restricts clothing or facial hair to maintain workplace safety.
   E.   Nursing Mothers.
      1.   The Village encourages employees and management to have a positive,
accepting attitude toward working women who are breastfeeding. Discrimination
and harassment of nursing mothers in any form is unacceptable and will not be
tolerated by the Village of River Grove.
      2.   The Village will allow nursing mothers reasonable break time to
express breast milk for one year after a child’s birth, each time the employee
has a need to express.
      3.   The Village will provide a place, other than a bathroom, shielded
from view and free from intrusion from coworkers and the public, for a Nursing
Mother to use as a lactation area. Departments are not required to designate a
location for exclusive use as a lactation area. However, the location must be
available when the nursing mother requires its use. Employees should consult
the HR Department regarding the specific location of appropriate lactation
facilities.
      4.   The Nursing Mother should work with her supervisor to determine
appropriate use of reasonable break times, altered work schedules, use of
accrued leave time and/or unpaid leave to accommodate the reasonable break
time. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-3: WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY:
The Village of River Grove requires its elected officials, officers and
employees to adhere to the highest standards of ethics, integrity and legality
in the conduct of their duties and responsibilities, and to also adhere to all
applicable laws, regulations, and Village policies.
The Village encourages individuals to report credible information concerning
possible illegal or unethical practices, or violations of adopted policies of
the organization.
The Village has an open-door policy with respect to the reporting of such
information. This Whistleblower Policy is intended to encourage and enable
officers and employees to raise concerns for investigation and appropriate
action.
   A.   Objectives. The objectives of this policy are:
      1.   To establish policies and procedures for the submission of concerns
regarding:
         a.   Financial wrongdoing, including incorrect or questionable
accounting or audit practices or deficiencies in internal controls;
         b.   Theft, fraud or deliberate error in financial statements or
recordkeeping;
         c.   Misrepresentations to the village board or officials (including
deviation from full reporting of financial conditions);
         d.   Violations of any federal, state or local law, regulation or
village policy;
         e.   Sexual harassment, employment discrimination in any form, or
improper employment practices;
         f.   Procurement irregularities;
         g.   Conflicts of interest; and
         h.   Any act or omission that appears to be improper, unethical or
violate the village’s policies.
      2.   To set forth the manner in which concerns should be reported and the
manner they will be investigated and acted on.
      3.   To set forth how individuals who report concerns are protected from
retaliation in any form.
   B.   Whistleblower Defined. A whistleblower is defined as any employee who
reports an illegal or dishonest activity set forth in Section
1-17-3 (A)(1) above to one or more of the parties specified in this Ordinance.
   C.   Reporting Responsibility. In accordance with this Whistleblower
Protection Policy, every officer and employee of the Village has an obligation
to report any credible information regarding any of the matters set forth in
Section
1-17-3 (A)(1) above.
   D.   Reporting Process. An individual with concerns regarding activities
described in this policy shall report those concerns to the Director of Human
Resources, the Comptroller, or the Village Attorney. If any of those
individuals is implicated in the concern, then the individual should report
those concerns to the Village President.
      1.   Content of Report. The Village encourages reports of suspected
improper activities to be in writing to assure a clear understanding of the
matter, but oral reports will also be accepted. Reports should be factual,
rather than speculative, and contain as much specific information as possible
to allow for the assessment and investigation of the matter. Anonymous
whistleblowers must provide sufficient corroborative evidence to justify
commencing an investigation. Although whistleblowers are not required to prove
the truth of the allegation, they should be able to demonstrate that the report
is being made in good faith. Whistleblowers should refrain from obtaining
evidence to which they are not legally entitled. Whistleblowers are not
investigators and are not to act on their own in investigating wrongdoing.
      2.   Investigation. All reports shall be investigated by the Director of
Human Resources, the Village Attorney, or an individual designated by the
Village President, provided, however, that no individual implicated in the
report will investigate it, designate the investigator, or participate in the
investigation. The investigator will make a full report of his or her findings,
and the recommended corrective action, and will forward the report to the
President and Board of Trustees and the Village Attorney immediately following
the completion of the investigation.
      3.   Acting in Good Faith. Because the Village intends to take reports of
wrongdoing very seriously, anyone reporting a concern must act in good faith
and have reasonable grounds for believing the information is true. Allegations
that prove to have been made maliciously, recklessly, or with the knowledge
that the allegations are false, will be viewed as a serious disciplinary
offense and may result in discipline, up to and including termination of
employment. This does not include allegations that are made in good faith but
unsubstantiated.
      4.   Confidentiality.
         a.   Reports of concerns, and investigations pertaining thereto, shall
be kept confidential to the extent possible, consistent with the need to
conduct an adequate investigation. Complaints will be held in confidence to the
extent permitted by the needs of the investigation.
         b.   Disclosure of the identity of the whistleblower may be necessary
to provide accused individuals with their right to a defense. Disclosure of
reports of concerns to individuals not involved in the investigation will be
viewed as a serious disciplinary offense and may result in discipline, up to
and including termination of employment.
         c.   Employees with questions concerning the confidentiality or
appropriateness of disclosure of particular information should contact the
Director of Human Resources.
   E.   Prohibition Against Retaliation. Any act of retaliation violates this
policy. Anyone found to have retaliated against anyone in violation of this
policy will be subject to discipline up to and including termination of
employment. Any suspected retaliation or intimidation should be reported
immediately to one of the persons identified in Section
1-17-3 (D) above.
      1.   Retaliatory Action Defined. For the purposes of this policy,
retaliatory action means the reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial
of promotion or transfer, or decrease in pay, change in the terms or conditions
of employment, isolation, victimization, intimidation, threats of physical harm
of any municipal employee that is taken in retaliation for a municipal
employee’s involvement in protected activity pursuant to this policy.
Consistent with the Whistleblower Act, employees are also protected from
retaliatory acts or omissions not specifically set forth above, and threats or
retaliatory acts or omissions, whether within or without the workplace, if the
act or omission would be materially adverse to a reasonable employee, and is
because the employee disclosed or attempted to disclose wrongdoing.
      2.   Protected Acts. The Village of River Grove expressly prohibits
retaliation against any employee because he or she:
         a.   Reported a concern in accordance with this policy;
         b.   Opposed that which he or she reasonably and in good faith
believes to be sexual harassment;
         c.   Made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing related to a charge of
harassment;
         d.   Disclosed or threatened to disclose to a supervisor or to a
municipal official, an activity, policy, or practice of any employee, officer,
member, or other employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation
of a law, rule, or regulation;
         e.   Requested, attempted to request, used, or attempted to use a
reasonable accommodation allowed by state or federal law;
         f.   Testified before a public body conducting an investigation,
hearing or inquiry, or disclosed information in a court, an administrative
hearing, or to a government or law enforcement agency, or in any other
proceeding, where the employee was subpoenaed or where the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information disclosed a violation of a
State or federal law, rule, or regulation; or
         g.   Refused to participate in an activity that would result in a
violation of a federal, state or local law, rule, or regulation, including, but
not limited to, violations of the Freedom of Information Act.
   Any employee who commits any act of retaliation is subject to discipline, up
to and including termination of employment. No individual making a report will
be retaliated against even if a report made in good faith is not substantiated.
In addition, any witness will be protected from retaliation.
   F.   Reporting.
      1.   Internal Reporting. Any employee who believes he/she is being
retaliated against must contact the Director of Human Resources, the Village
Attorney or the Comptroller as soon as possible.
      2.   Reporting to Outside Agencies. An employee who believes he or she
has been retaliated against after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge within 180 days to IDHR or 300 days to EEOC of the
alleged retaliation.
   G.   Unrelated Discipline. The right of employees to be protected from
retaliation does not make the employee immune from discipline or adverse
employment action for other acts of misconduct. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-4: THE EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP:
   A.   Classification of Employees. In order to determine eligibility for
benefits and overtime status and to ensure compliance with federal and state
laws and regulations, the Village of River Grove classifies its employees as
shown below. The Village of River Grove may review or change employee
classifications at any time.
      1.   Definitions
COMMISSIONERS: Commissioners are citizens appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees to serve on a standing
committee, board or commission. Commissioners are volunteers and are not
employees subject to this Personnel Code, regardless of the payment of a
stipend. Employees who also serve as Commissioners retain their status as
employees.
EXEMPT EMPLOYEE: An exempt employee is one who does not receive overtime
compensation for hours worked in excess of 40 per week because they are exempt
from overtime under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). An employee in this
category is paid at fixed and regular intervals on the basis of an annual
salary. Exempt employees are those managerial, professional and certain
administrative employees defined as exempt under the FLSA. Exempt employees may
enjoy a more flexible work schedule than nonexempt employees depending on the
needs and approval of their supervisor, however, they may also be expected to
work longer hours than nonexempt employees. An employee’s exempt status shall
be determined by the Director of Human Resources.
NONEXEMPT EMPLOYEE: Nonexempt employees are those employees who receive
overtime pay for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week because they
qualify as nonexempt under the FLSA. Nonexempt employees are paid on an hourly
basis and receive overtime pay at time and a half for hours worked in excess of
40 hours a week. Nonexempt employees must strictly adhere to their scheduled
hours of work and work overtime only as approved by their supervisor. An
employee’s status as nonexempt shall be determined by the Director of Human
Resources.
MAYORAL APPOINTEES: Mayoral Appointees include all officers appointed by the
Village President in accordance with the Illinois Municipal Code and the
Village Code, the Mayor’s Chief Aide, the Director of Human Resources, and
Department Directors who have discretionary authority to command their
department. Mayoral Appointees may be selected by the Village President without
a competitive process. Mayoral Appointees work a flexible schedule as
determined by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
REGULAR, FULL-TIME: Regular Full Time Employees are those employees who are not
in a temporary or probationary status, who are regularly scheduled to work a
minimum of 37.5 hours per week, and who maintain continuous employment status.
Generally, these employees are eligible for the Village’s benefits package and
are subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of each benefit’s
program.
REGULAR, PART-TIME: Regular Part Time Employees are those employees who are not
in a temporary or probationary status and who regularly work less than 37.5
hours a week, and who maintain continuous employment status. Part time
employees are not entitled to the Village’s benefits package.
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES: Temporary employees are those employees who are hired to
temporarily supplement the workforce or to assist with a specific project, and
who are temporarily scheduled to work either full time or part time for a
duration of less than 1000 hours per year. Employment beyond any initially
stated period does not in any way imply a change in employment status.
Temporary employees are not entitled to the Village’s benefits package.
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE: Probationary employees are newly hired employees whose
continued employment is contingent upon the successful completion of a
probationary period. All employees shall be considered probationary employees
for the first year of employment, except that the probationary period for full
time sworn police officers is defined in their collective bargaining agreement.
Effective January 1, 2019, full time probationary employees are eligible for
the Village’s benefit package on the first day of the month following their
60th day of employment.
      2.   Job Descriptions. Each position classification shall be described in
a job description kept on file in the office of the Director of Human
Resources. Job descriptions shall indicate the essential functions of the job,
the required knowledge, skills and abilities, the work environment, physical
demands, position type, expected hours of work, supervision given and received,
and salary range.
      3.   Pay Plan. The salary range for each position will be established in
a Village Pay Plan setting forth the position classification and the salary
range for each position. The Pay Plan may be reviewed and adjusted
periodically.
      4.   Compensation. The initial compensation for a new employee shall be
set within the range established for the position in the Village’s Pay Plan.
Compensation for the selected individual will be set within the established
range based on the employee’s education, experience, job related qualifications
and other merit based factors.
   Increases in compensation shall be based solely on merit, length of service
and job performance. The Village is committed to like pay for like work.
   Changes in an employee’s compensation may also result from reclassification
of an employee to another position or increases in the duties and
responsibilities of an employee’s existing position.
   Department Directors will not increase the compensation of an employee
without review by and written approval of the Comptroller, the Director of
Human Resources and final approval of the Village President.
   B.   Recruitment and Selection of Employees
      1.   Commitment to Diversity.
         a.   The Village of River Grove is committed to the ongoing
development of a work environment which fosters diversity, equity and
inclusion. The Village embraces and encourages our employees’ differences in
age, color, disability, ethnicity, family or marital status, gender identity or
expression, language, national origin, physical and mental ability, political
affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation, socio-economic status, veteran
status, and other characteristics that make our employees unique. The Village
will not discriminate in hiring, firing, promotion, compensation and benefits,
training and development, layoffs, or terminations based on an employee’s or
applicant’s protected status.
         b.   All employees of the Village must treat others with dignity and
respect at all times. All employees are expected to exhibit conduct that
reflects inclusion during work, at work related functions on or off the work
site, and at all other Village sponsored events. All employees are also
required to attend and complete diversity awareness training to enhance their
knowledge of this responsibility.
         c.   Any employee found to have exhibited any inappropriate conduct or
behavior against others may be subject to disciplinary action up to and
including termination of employment.
      2.   Job Posting, Applications and Examination. This section applies to
employees who are hired by competitive process. This section does not apply to
Professional Mayoral Appointees or to full time sworn police officers appointed
by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
         a.   Job Posting.
            (1)   When a vacancy exists in a position funded in the budget, the
Department Director will fill out a position vacancy form and submit it to the
Director of Human Resources, the Comptroller and the Village President for
approval, together with the job description.
            (2)   The Director of Human Resources will review the job
description with the Department Director, or in the case of a Mayoral
Appointee, with the Village President, to determine if it is current and update
it if necessary.
            (3)   The Comptroller will review the position vacancy form to
determine if the position is funded in the budget. If the Comptroller approves
filling the position, he will refer the position vacancy requisition to the
Village President for approval.
            (4)   If the position is not a Mayoral Appointee, the Director of
Human Resources will then create a written job posting for the position and
advertise the position widely, including posting the job on the Village’s web
site in order to reach a broad cross section of the job seeking community.
Positions will not be advertised by word of mouth only. All announcements and
advertisements for vacant positions will specify the title and salary range of
the position, minimum qualifications, and necessary knowledge, skills, and
abilities, and the essential functions of the job. At a minimum, all applicants
must be authorized to work in the United States, have a high school diploma or
its equivalent (unless the position requires more advanced education or
certification) have a current and valid Illinois Driver’s License if the
position requires the operation of a motor vehicle, and have the ability to
speak, write and read English fluently.
            (5)   All job postings shall affirmatively state that the Village
is an equal opportunity employer. Vacant positions will be posted for a minimum
of fourteen calendar days to allow for receipt of applications.
         b.   Applications.
            (1)   The Village accepts applications for open positions only. To
be considered for employment, all applicants must complete a Village of River
Grove Application Form. Resumes may be submitted in conjunction with
applications. Application forms and instructions are available from the
Director of Human Resources.
            (2)   Applications for a posted vacancy will be accepted in the
Human Resources Department only, time stamped when received, and placed on file
for all applicants who meet the application deadline. All application documents
will be kept in confidence and maintained in accordance with retention policies
in the Local Records Retention Act.
            (3)   The Village has the right to reject any or all applications
for employment. Any applicant who provides false, misleading or incomplete
information on a job application will be disqualified from employment.
            (4)   Applicants selected for hire must be selected from the pool
of candidates whose applications were received by the Director of Human
Resources before the deadline. Copies of all applications received by the
deadline will be forwarded to the Department Director for review. The
Department Director and the Director of Human Resources will review all
applications and select those to be interviewed. The Director of Human
Resources will then schedule interviews with selected candidates. If there are
no qualified applicants in the pool, all applications will be rejected and the
position reposted.
            (5)   Any written or other tests used to select employees should be
submitted to the Director of Human Resources for review and approval.
         c.   Method of Selection.
            (1)   Existing employees are encouraged to apply for posted
positions whenever they meet the necessary requirements in the job description.
            (2)   Entry level positions or other positions to be filled by
recruitment from outside the Village staff will be filled through a competitive
process open to the public. Every effort will be made to recruit the best-
qualified candidates to fill vacancies in the Village.
            (3)   Applications will be evaluated upon job-related criteria
only, including but not be limited to, the content of their resume and
application, personal interview, education, training, experience, knowledge,
skill and ability and any written, oral, physical, or performance evaluations,
or any other factors that are job related and enter into the determination of
the qualification of applicants. The applicant may be required to submit proof
of his/her education, military service, or any other such documentation, as the
Village deems necessary and appropriate.
            (4)   The Village may administer tests and selection procedures to
determine an employee’s skills and qualifications for a job. Any such tests
shall be conducted in accordance with the Uniform Guidelines on Employee
Selection Procedures, 29 C.F.R. part 1607. Any candidate who needs a reasonable
accommodation in testing shall notify the Director of Human Resources at least
3 days prior to the test and provide appropriate documentation.
               (A)   Background checks. Once a contingent offer of employment
is made, the Director of Human Resources will conduct background, reference,
and driving record checks in accordance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act and
as deemed appropriate based on the position.
               (B)   Pre-employment Physical. When deemed appropriate based on
the physical requirements of the job, the Village may condition an offer of
employment on the applicant undergoing and passing a physical examination
designed to determine whether the applicant can perform the essential functions
of the job. The examination must be job related and consistent with business
necessity. The Village will uniformly apply this requirement to all
appointments for the same position classification.
               (C)   Permitted Exams and Inquiries Include:
                  i.   Physical agility tests, which measure an employee’s
ability to perform actual or simulated job tasks;
                  ii.   Fitness for Duty exams which measure an employee’s
ability to perform physical tasks of the job, as long as the test does not
include examinations that could be considered medical (e.g., measuring heart
rate or blood pressure);
                  iii.   Tests to evaluate an employee’s ability to read or
distinguish objects to determine the employee’s ability to perform actual job
functions;
                  iv.   Psychological tests that measure personality traits
such as honesty, preferences, and habits; and,
                  v.   Tests to determine the current illegal use of drugs or
alcohol intoxication;
                  vi.   Polygraph examinations for police applicants as per the
Rules and Regulations of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
         Employees will not be required to submit to medical exams or
disability related inquiries to determine if they have a condition or
disability except in compliance with this policy. The Village will keep all
medical records and information confidential and in separate medical files.
               (D)   Pre-Employment Drug and Alcohol Screening. Pre-Employment
Drug and Alcohol Screening with be conducted in accordance with the Village’s
Drug and Alcohol Policy, which is on file in the Office of the Director of
Human Resources.
               (E)   Eligibility to Work. All candidates for employment must be
authorized to work in the United States. The Village will use the E-Verify web
site and procedures to verify a candidate’s eligibility to work in the United
States.
         d.   Final Offer of Employment. The Department Director and Director
of Human Resources shall make a recommendation to the Village President, who is
authorized to make the final offer of employment.
   C.   Promotions and Transfers. When a position exists which can be filled by
promotion or transfer, the Department Director and the Director of Human
Resources shall review the action and make a recommendation to the Village
President. The Village President has final authority to make the appointment.
   D.   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. All full time sworn police
officers shall be appointed and promoted by the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners in accordance with the Board of Fire and Police Commission Act
and the rules and regulations adopted by the Board.
   E.   Personnel Files.
      1.   Contents. The Village shall maintain all documents which are, have
been, or are intended to be used in determining an employee’s qualifications
for employment, promotion, transfer, additional compensation, discharge or
disciplinary action in the employee’s Personnel File.
      2.   Confidentiality. Personnel files shall be maintained in the office
of the Director of Human Resources and shall be considered confidential.
Department Directors and supervisors may only have access to an employee’s
Personnel File on a need-to-know basis.
      3.   Inspection and Copying. Current and former employees have the right
to inspect their personnel file and to copy of any part of the file in
accordance with the Personnel Record Review Act. Personnel files are to be
reviewed in the Office of the Human Resources Director. Original employee files
may not be taken out of the office.
   F.   Employment of Relatives and Domestic Partners.
      1.   Relatives and domestic partners of employees may be hired by the
Village if (1) the persons concerned will not work in a direct supervisory
relationship, and (2) the employment will not pose difficulties for
supervision, security, safety, or morale. For the purposes of this policy,
“relatives” are defined as spouses, children, siblings, nieces, nephews,
parents, or grandparents. A “domestic partnership” is generally defined as a
committed relationship between two individuals who share a home or living
arrangements.
      2.   Current employees who marry each other or become involved in a
domestic partnership will be permitted to continue employment with the Village
provided they do not work in a direct supervisory relationship with each other
or otherwise pose difficulties as mentioned above. If employees who marry or
live together do work in a direct supervisory relationship with each other, the
Village will attempt to reassign one of the employees to another position for
which he or she is qualified if such a position is available.
   G.   Secondary Employment. Full time employees are only permitted to work a
second job with the permission of the Village in accordance with the Secondary
Employment Policy on file in the Office of the Director of Human Resources.
Full time employees who hold secondary employment positions on the date this
Personnel Code was originally adopted shall report such secondary employment
position to the Director of Human Resources but are otherwise exempt from the
Secondary Employment policy employment with respect to that position. (Ord.
2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-5: WORK WEEK AND HOURS OF WORK:
   A.   Work Week. The work week shall begin at 12:00 a.m. on Saturday and end
at 11:59 p.m. on Friday night.
   B.   Regular Hours. The Village provides public services 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. As a result, the regular work hours of Village employees
vary by department. Regular work hours may be changed by amendment to this
code.
      1.   Village Hall Staff.
         a.   The regular work day for Village Hall staff is from 8:00 a.m. to
4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
         b.   Village Hall is open from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Saturdays
and staffed with at least 2 employees. Employees assigned to work on Saturday
shall be paid overtime for any hours worked in excess of 40 per week.
      2.   Public Works. The regular work day for public works employees is
from 7:00 to 3:30 Monday through Friday.
      3.   Fire. Firefighter/Paramedics work 24 hours a day, seven days a week
in 12 hour shifts as scheduled by the Director of Emergency Services or his
designee. Firefighters/Paramedics are part time employees who shall not be
regularly scheduled to work more than 36 hours in a week.
      4.   Police. The work day and work week for full time sworn members of
the police department are established in their collective bargaining agreement.
Administrative staff in the police department, and employees providing part
time and supplemental police services will be scheduled in the sole discretion
of the Director of Police Services.
   C.   Meal and Rest Breaks. Meal and rest breaks shall be used for the
benefit of the employee. Employees should not work during meal breaks.
      1.   Full Time Employees. Full time employees who work at least an 8-hour
shift are entitled to a 30-minute unpaid meal break and two 15-minute paid
breaks each shift. Thus, the standard number of paid hours per week for full
time employees in Village Hall is 37.5, not including hours attributable to
Saturday shifts, and the standard number of paid hours per week in the Public
Works Department is 40.
      2.   Part Time Employees. Part time employees who work less than 5 hours
a day are entitled to one paid 15-minute break.
      3.   Scheduling of Breaks. Meal and rest breaks may be scheduled by the
employee’s supervisor. Supervisors may approve the consolidation of these
breaks into a single 1-hour break depending on the needs of the department.
Meal breaks must be taken at least 2 hours after the beginning and before the
end of an employee’s shift. Employees may not use their meal break during the
first or last hour of work in order to shorten the work day unless they obtain
prior approval from their supervisor. Non-exempt employees shall not take meal
breaks at their desk and shall not perform work duties during their meal
breaks.
      4.   Use it or Lose It. Employees who do not take their breaks waive them
and are not entitled to use the time on any subsequent day.
      5.   Nursing Mothers. Nursing mothers are entitled to such additional
breaks as are necessary to express breast milk and shall work with their
supervisor to develop a reasonable schedule to do so.
   D.   Attendance.
      1.   Regular Attendance Expected. All employees are expected to arrive to
work on time and ready for work, every day they are scheduled. Employees are
expected to remain at work until the end of the work day.
      2.   Absences
         a.   Employees who will not be at work on time, or who will be absent
for an entire day must contact their supervisor by phone within 15 minutes of
their scheduled start time. Texts or E-mail messages are not an acceptable call
in method except in emergency circumstances.
         b.   Failure to show up or call in for a scheduled shift without prior
approval may result in termination. Excessive absenteeism or tardiness will
result in discipline up to and including termination from employment.
      3.   Absent Without Leave/Voluntary Resignation. If an employee fails to
report to work or call in to inform the supervisor of his or her absence for 3
consecutive scheduled work days or more, the employee will be considered to
have voluntarily resigned employment.
      4.   Excessive Absenteeism. The Director of Human Resources will review
an employee’s absences for potential discipline at the request of a Department
Director. In determining whether absences are excessive, the Director of Human
Resources will look at the number of absences, the number of times the employee
has come in late or left early, patterns of calling in sick on Mondays,
Fridays, before or after a vacation or holiday, or during nice weather, failing
to get permission for leaving early or coming in late; failing to give advance
notice of an absence when possible, failing to report an absence properly,
failing to submit medical certification upon request, and failing to return to
work when released by a physician. The Village retains the right to take
disciplinary action up to and including termination if a pattern of excessive
absenteeism is found. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-6: PAY AND OVERTIME:
   A.   Rate of Pay. The regular rate of pay for salaried, non-exempt employees
will be calculated by dividing their salary by the number of regular hours
worked in a year in the employee’s department as defined in Section
1-17-5 (8) above.
   B.   Time Keeping. All employees must keep track of their hours worked using
the Village’s payroll system or other methods approved by the Village
President. Time records are required by governmental regulations and are used
to calculate regular pay, overtime pay and employee leave time. At the end of
each week, the employee and his or her supervisor must verify the employee’s
time record, attesting to its correctness.
   C.   Overtime.
      1.   Eligibility. The Village will pay all non-exempt employees overtime
at the rate of 1 1/2 times their normal hourly rate of pay for any actual hours
worked in excess of 40 hours a week. For purposes of calculating when overtime
will be paid, “actual hours worked” includes paid holidays, vacation,
bereavement time and jury duty. Compensatory time used does not count toward
actual hours worked. If an employee is tardy or otherwise in an unpaid status
during their scheduled hours of work, those missed hours are not counted toward
hours worked for purposes of calculating overtime eligibility. Non- exempt
employees having a regularly scheduled workweek of 37.5 hours shall be
compensated at their regular rate of pay (straight-time) when they work in
excess of 37.5 hours and up to 40 hours, and at time and a half (1 1/2 times
their regular rate) for hours worked in excess of 40 hours.
      2.   Approval of Overtime. It is the policy of the Village that overtime
will be kept to the minimum amount possible without jeopardizing the efficient
operation of the Village. All overtime work must be approved in advance by a
supervisor. In any given workweek, an employee’s supervisor may alter the work
schedule hour for hour to avoid an employee working in excess of the regularly
scheduled workweek. Employees may not punch in early or work through their meal
break to earn overtime without the prior approval of their supervisor.
      3.   Time Keeping. Employees must record all overtime earned using the
payroll system.
      4.   No Pyramiding. Compensation shall not be paid more than once for the
same hours worked under any provision of this code.
      5.   Emergency Call Backs.
         a.   Employees who are on call for snow or other emergency but who are
permitted to be off the premises while waiting for a call back, are not
compensated for that time.
         b.   If an employee is called in to work in response to an emergency
call back or at the Village’s special request to perform a particular and
unusual assignment, the employee will be paid for their travel time.
         c.   An employee called back to work more than one hour before or
after his regularly scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of 2 hours pay.
   D.   Compensatory Time. Employees who qualify for overtime by working more
than 40 hours a week may elect to accrue compensatory, or “comp time” as a
substitute for overtime wages in accordance with the guidelines below. Comp
time will accrue at the rate of one and a half hours for every hour of overtime
earned.
      1.   Written Agreement. Comp time will be provided to any employee who
has entered into a written agreement with the Village authorizing the award of
comp time in lieu of overtime paid in cash. Notwithstanding any such agreement,
the Village may elect to pay overtime in cash in lieu of allowing an employee
to accrue comp time in any single work week or work period. If the Village
chooses to pay overtime in cash during one work week or work period, it will
not affect subsequent granting of compensatory time off in future workweeks or
work periods.
      2.   Maximum Accrual. Employees in the police department may accrue a
maximum of 480 hours of comp time. All other employees may accrue a maximum of
240 hours.
      3.   Payout Upon Separation from Employment. Upon separation from
employment with the Village, employees shall be paid for any unused comp time
at a rate that is not less than the average regular rate of pay received by the
employee in the last 3 years of employment, or the final regular rate of
earnings of the employee.
      4.   Scheduling and Use of Compensatory Time. Employees who have
requested to use their compensatory time off shall be permitted to use the time
within a reasonable period after making the request if it does not unduly
disrupt the operations of the Village.
   E.   Paychecks
      1.   Schedule. The Village pays all non-exempt employees for all hours
worked on a biweekly basis on Friday. The Village will issue paychecks within
14 days of the end of the pay period. If pay day falls on a federal holiday,
employees will receive their paycheck on the preceding workday. Paychecks are
directly deposited into the employee’s checking and/or savings accounts.
      2.   Amount.
         a.   The Village will pay non-exempt employees for all hours worked at
their hourly rate of pay, and overtime at time and a half in accordance with
the Fair Labor Standards Act.
         b.   The Village will pay exempt, salaried employees l/26th of their
salary on a biweekly basis, except for the authorized deductions provided
below.
      3.   Deductions from Pay.
         a.   Permitted Deductions from the Pay of Exempt, Salaried Employees.
The Village may make the following deductions from the pay of an exempt
employee:
            (1)   Deductions that are required by law, e.g., income taxes;
            (2)   Optional deductions for employee benefits when authorized by
the employee, including:
               (A)   Health Insurance for the employee or the employee and his
or her dependents.
               (B)   Participation in the IRS 457 deferred compensation
program.
               (C)   Contributions to programs or organizations approved by the
Village.
               (D)   S125 Flexible Spending;
            (3)   Deductions due to absence from work for one or more full days
in excess of the employee’s available paid time off; or
            (4)   For penalties imposed in good faith for infractions of safety
rules of major significance; or
            (5)   Unpaid disciplinary suspensions of one or more full days
imposed in good faith for workplace conduct rule infractions.
         b.   Permitted Deductions from the Pay of All Employees. The amount
deducted from any one salary or wage payment shall not exceed 15% of the net
amount of the salary remaining after the deduction of any amounts required by
law (such as federal and state income taxes). The Village may deduct from wages
or final compensation deductions that are:
            (1)   Required by law;
            (2)   To the benefit of the employee;
            (3)   In response to a valid wage assignment or wage deduction
order;
            (4)   Made with the express written consent of the employee, given
freely at the time the deduction is made;
            (5)   Amounts which result from an excess payment made due to, but
not limited to, a typographical or mathematical error made by the village; or
            (6)   Amounts to collect a debt owed to the village after notice to
the employee and an opportunity to be heard in accordance with the Illinois
Wage Payment and Collection Act.
         c.   Improper Deductions. If an employee classified as exempt believes
that an improper deduction has been taken from his or her pay, the employee
shall immediately report the deduction to the Comptroller. The Comptroller will
promptly investigate the report and if an improper deduction has been made, the
Village will reimburse the employee for the improper deduction.
      4.   Pay During FMLA Leave. FMLA leave is unpaid leave. Employees must
use their accumulated sick leave, vacation leave, comp time, or personal days
during their FMLA absences. Upon the expiration of all accumulate leave time,
the remainder of an employee’s authorized FMLA leave will be unpaid. During a
pay period when an employee is using unpaid leave under the Family and Medical
Leave Act (FMLA), the employee will be paid only for hours worked.
      5.   First and Last Pay Periods. During the first week or last week of an
exempt employee’s employment, the employee will only be paid for actual hours
worked.
      6.   Final Compensation.
         a.   “Final compensation” is defined as wages, salaries and the
monetary equivalent of earned vacation, and any other compensation owed the
employee by the Village pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement.
         b.   Unless otherwise provided in a collective bargaining agreement,
when an employee separates from employment without having taken all vacation
time earned in accordance with this Personnel Code, the monetary equivalent of
all earned vacation shall be paid to him or her as part of his or her final
compensation at his or her final rate of pay. The Village shall pay the final
compensation of separated employees in full no later than the next regularly
scheduled payday for the employee. Where the employee requests in writing that
his final compensation be paid by check and mailed to him, the Village shall
comply with this request.
      7.   Expense Reimbursement. The Village will reimburse employees for work
related travel in a personal vehicle using the Standard Mileage Allowance rate
set by the IRS. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-7: LEAVES OF ABSENCE:
   A.   Full Time Employee Benefits. Paid holidays, sick leave, vacation leave
and personal leave benefits granted by the Village in this code are provided
for full time employees only. Part-time, temporary, and seasonal employees are
not entitled to holiday pay, sick leave, vacation leave or personal leave,
except as required by law.
   B.   Compensation. Full time employees will be compensated for sick leave,
vacation leave and personal leave at their regular rate of pay. Employees who
use these forms of paid time off are not entitled to other forms of
compensation such as disability payments.
   C.   Holidays
      1.   Declared. The following days are declared holidays such that
nonessential employees are not required to be at work, but for which full time
employees earn their regular rate of pay. Part time and seasonal employees do
not receive pay for holidays they do not work.
      The first day of January (New Year’s Day)
      The third Monday of January (Martin Luther King Jr. Day)
      The third Monday of February (President’s Day)
      The last Monday in May (Memorial Day)
      June 19th (Juneteenth)
      July 4th (Independence Day)
      The first Monday in September (Labor Day)
      November 11th (Veteran’s Day)
      The fourth Thursday of November (Thanksgiving Day)
      The fourth Friday in November (Thanksgiving holiday)
      1/2 day December 24th (Christmas Eve Day)
      December 25th (Christmas Day)
      1/2 day December 31st (New Year’s Day)
      Any other day declared vacation by the Village President with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees.
      2.   Observed. When any holiday listed above falls on Saturday, it will
be celebrated on the preceding Friday, and when any holiday falls on a Sunday,
it will be celebrated the following business day.
      3.   Holiday Pay.
         a.   Full Time Employees. Full time employees and Mayoral Appointees
are eligible for holiday pay immediately upon joining the Village. Holiday pay
will only be paid if the employee worked a full shift on the workday preceding
the holiday and a full work shift on the workday following the holiday, unless:
            (1)   The employee is ill and has submitted a doctor’s statement;
            (2)   The holiday falls during the employee’s pre-approved vacation
period; or
            (3)   The employee leaves work on the workday before or after the
holiday because of a work related accident.
         b.   Overtime. Employees who are required to work on a holiday will be
paid time and a half.
         c.   Part Time, Non-Exempt Employees. Part Time, Non-Exempt Employees
are only paid for actual hours worked and are not compensated for holidays not
actually worked. When a part time, non-exempt employee, such as a firefighter,
is scheduled to work on a holiday listed in Section C(1) above, the employee
shall be compensated for actual hours worked at time and a half.
      4.   Religious Observances. Employees who need time off to observe
religious practices or holidays not already scheduled by the Village should
speak with their supervisor. Employees may be able to switch a scheduled day
with another employee, take vacation time, or take off unpaid days. The Village
will seek to reasonably accommodate individuals’ religious observances.
   D.   Vacation. The Village recognizes the importance of time off from work
to relax, spend time with family, and enjoy leisure activities. The Village
provides paid vacation time to full-time employees for this purpose, and
employees are encouraged to take vacation during the year. Temporary, seasonal
and/or part-time employees are not granted vacation leave.
      1.   Accrual.
         a.   Full-time employees who have successfully passed their
probationary period accrue vacation time based on their years of service.
Vacation leave will first be awarded after employees have successfully
completed their probationary period. Vacation leave will be awarded on a pro
rata basis for the remainder of the year.
         b.   After employees complete their probationary period, they will be
awarded vacation on January 1st of each year. The amount of vacation awarded
will be based on their years of service as indicated in the table below.
         c.   The number of hours accrued or taken for each day of vacation
will be calculated based on the employee’s regular work day. For example, an
employee who works an 8-hour shift will accrue 40 hours of vacation in the
first year while an employee who works a 7.5-hour shift will accrue 37.5 hours
of vacation the first year.
 
YEARS OF SERVICE        AMOUNT OF VACATION
Completion of probation 5 days
Year 1                  10 days
After 8th year          15 days
After 15th year         20 days
 
         d.   Employees are encouraged to take their vacation each year. No
employee shall receive pay in lieu of vacation except upon separation from
employment. When an employee resigns or is terminated without having taken all
vacation time earned for that year, the monetary equivalent of all earned but
unused vacation shall be paid to him or her as part of his or her final
compensation at his or her final rate of pay.
         e.   Conversely, because the Village awards vacation time in advance
of the year, any employee who separates from employment having used more of his
or her allotted vacation leave than is proportional to his or her days of
employment that year will have the excess vacation deducted from his or her
final check.
         f.   The vacation leave provided in this section may be altered in an
employment contract, in which case the terms of the contract will control.
         g.   Employees do not accrue vacation for periods of work in which
they are in an unpaid status. Pro Rata adjustments will be made in the vacation
award made on January 1 of the following year.
      2.   Maximum Accrual. Vacation should be used in the year it is earned.
Employees will be permitted to carryover up to 10 days of accrued vacation to
the following calendar year. All vacation hours accumulated over 10 days at the
end of the year will be lost.
      3.   Requests to Use Vacation Leave.
         a.   Employees must submit a request for vacation to their Department
Director. Vacation may be taken only after approval by the Director. Request
for leave for 5 or more days shall be made at least two weeks in advance of the
leave. Department Directors who receive multiple requests for vacation leave
for the same time period which, if granted, would result in a disruption of
Village operations, shall grant such requests based on who applied first.
         b.   Vacations shall be used in minimum of % day increments and for a
maximum of 2 weeks at a time.
      4.   Vacation Pay Out. Employees shall receive payment for unused accrued
vacation leave upon separation from employment. Payment shall be at the
worker’s regular rate of compensation at the time of separation.
   E.   Sick Leave.
      1.   Eligibility.
         a.   Sick leave is earned, paid leave granted to eligible full-time
employees for periods of absence because of personal illness, injury, doctor
visits and treatments, or any temporary disability caused or contributed to by
pregnancy, miscarriage or childbirth.
         b.   A full-time employee may also use sick leave for the illness,
injury, doctor visits or treatment of immediate family members, or for the
purpose of attending to immediate family at the time of birth or adoption of a
child.
      2.   Rate of Accrual. Full time employees, other than full time police
officers earn 1/2 day of sick time per month of employment, or 6 per year, and
may accumulate up to 240 days of sick time. The maximum accrual for full time
police officers is set forth in their collective bargaining agreement. Sick
leave is not accrued during times when an employee is in an unpaid status.
      3.   Use of Sick Leave.
         a.   Sick time off is leave granted to regular full-time and
probationary employees. Sick time is to be used for actual illness or injury,
or to care for a family member. The Village encourages employees who are sick
to use their sick time to stop the spread of illness in the workplace. However,
sick leave is not an entitlement to time off from work for other purposes.
         b.   Employees shall notify their supervisor at least 15 minutes
before the start of their shift if they are unavailable for work for purposes
covered by the Village’s sick leave benefit.
      4.   Doctor’s Notes.
         a.   Department Directors shall inform the Director of Human Resources
when an employee has used more than 3 days’ sick leave for their own, or their
family member’s medical condition. The Director of Human Resources shall notify
the employee that they are required to provide a physician’s note
substantiating the need for sick leave longer than 3 days.
         b.   The Director of Human Resources may also require an employee who
has been found to have a pattern of excessive absenteeism to provide a doctor’s
note for each absence after providing the employee with notice of this
requirement.
         c.   Employees who need more than 3 days’ sick leave will be notified
of their rights under the FMLA and must comply with the certification and other
FMLA provisions in this code.
      5.   Confidentiality. Employee medical information is confidential and
will be maintained by the Director of Human Resources in a separate,
confidential medical file. Department Directors are only entitled to have
access to an employee’s confidential medical file on a need to know basis.
      6.   Family Sick Leave Act. An employee who has exhausted his/her sick
time off may, at the discretion of the Director of Human Resources, use accrued
vacation as a means of being compensated for time off due to sickness, injury,
or disability, or any leave allowed under this policy.
      7.   Workers Compensation and Sick Leave. The Workers Compensation Act
provides for the payment of tax free disability benefits to employees who are
incapacitated from performing their work due to a work-related illness or
injury. Workers compensation benefits begin on the 4th day an employee is off
work due to such an injury or illness. If an employee is off work for 14 days
or longer, worker’s compensation disability payments date back to the date of
injury. Because employees who suffer a work-related illness or injury receive
Workers’ Compensation disability benefits, the Village does not pay employees
using sick time benefits, except in cases where the employee is off for 3 days
or less.
      8.   Misuse of Sick Time.
         a.   The use of sick time for personal purposes, or the fraudulent use
of sick time is cause for discipline up to and including termination for repeat
offenses.
         b.   Sick time off may not be used at the beginning or end of a
vacation leave without proper medical documentation.
      9.   Sickness During Preapproved Vacation. Employees who become sick
while on a preapproved and scheduled vacation are not entitled to change their
vacation leave to sick leave.
      10.   Unused Sick Time.
         a.   Employees are encouraged to accumulate unused sick time. Upon
retirement, provided the employee is not terminated for disciplinary reasons,
IMRF qualified employee may use his or her accumulated sick time to gain up to
one year of additional IMRF service credit, provided the employee’s effective
date of retirement is within 60 days of the date of separation and provided the
employee has not received any form of payment for the accumulated sick time.
Creditable service from unused sick time may not be used to establish the
minimum service period required under the Illinois Pension Code.
         b.   The creditable service shall be at the rate of 1/20 of a month
for each full sick day, provided that no more than 12 months may be credited.
         c.   Upon retirement, employees may also request that the Village pay
out up to 20 days of unused sick time, in which case the time paid out will not
be credited toward IMRF service credits.
   F.   Personal Days. Employees are entitled to 3 personal days off per year.
Personal days off do not accumulate year to year and are offered on a “use it
or lose it” basis. Personal days allow employees time to attend to personal
business of an emergency or non-emergency nature. An employee who has an
unexpected emergency must notify their supervisor within 15 minutes of the
start of their shift that they need a personal day. Employees who intend to use
a personal day for non-emergency purposes should notify their supervisor at
least one week in advance.
   G.   Use of Leave at the End of Employment. Employees may not use sick time,
vacation time or personal days to extend their date of resignation, termination
or retirement.
   H.   Family and Medical Leave. There will be occasions when employees need
to take leave for reasons covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA).
The FMLA provides eligible employees with job protected leave for up to 12
weeks in a rolling 12-month period. FMLA leave is unpaid leave.
      1.   Eligibility. Employees are eligible for Family and Medical leave if
they have at least 12 months of service with the Village and have worked at
least 1,250 hours within the preceding 12- month period. These eligibility
criteria will be calculated backwards from the first day the employee is
eligible for leave.
      2.   Qualifying Reasons for Family and Medical Leave. FMLA leave may be
taken for the following reasons:
         a.   For the employee’s own serious health condition which renders the
employee unable to perform the functions of his/her position;
         b.   Because the employee is needed to care for a spouse, parent or
minor child who has a serious health condition (may cover an adult child over
age 18 if that person is mentally or physically disabled);
         c.   Due to the birth of the employee’s child, or the placement of a
child with the employee for adoption or foster care, or to care for or bond
with the child within the first 12 months after birth or placement;
         d.   Because the employee has a qualifying exigency arising out of the
fact that their spouse, child, parent, domestic partner, or next of kin is on
covered active duty, or has been called or ordered to covered active duty in
the armed forces, in which case the employee may use their 12-week entitlement
to address qualifying circumstances, including deploying on short-notice,
attending certain military events, arranging for alternative child care and
school activities, addressing certain financial and legal arrangements,
attending certain counseling sessions, engaging in rest and recuperation, and
attending to post deployment reintegration briefings; or
         e.   Because the employee is the spouse, domestic partner, son,
daughter, parent, or next of kin of a covered service member with a serious
injury or illness suffered while on active duty in the armed forces, or that
existed before the beginning of the member’s active duty and was aggravated by
service, or that manifested itself before or after the member became a veteran.
In such a case, an eligible employee may take up to 26 weeks of leave during a
single 12-month period.
      3.   Notice of Leave. If an employee has advance notice of a need for
medical leave, such as for a planned surgery or the birth of a child, the
employee shall provide the Director of Human Resources with 30 days’ advance
notice, or with notice as soon as practicable.
      4.   Requesting Leave. When requesting leave, an employee must cooperate
with all requests for information to substantiate that absences are FMLA-
qualifying. Supervisors shall inform the Director of Human Resources any time
an employee has been off work for 3 consecutive days, after which the Director
shall provide the employee with the necessary certification paperwork. The
Village may also designate an appropriate leave as FMLA.
      5.   Medical and Other Certifications. The Director of Human Resources
will provide any employee who has been off on sick leave for 3 or more days
with a form WH381, “Notice of Eligibility and Rights and Responsibilities,” and
form WH-380 if the leave request is for the employee’s own serious health
condition or to care for a family member’s serious health condition, or a form
WH-385 for military caregiver leave. Employees are required to have the
appropriate certification forms completed and returned to the Village in a
timely manner. Failure to do so may result in denial of the leave until it is
provided. If an employee refuses to provide the appropriate certification, his/
her leave request will be denied, and in some cases, the employee may be
disciplined.
      6.   Workers Compensation. The Village will place employees who are off
work for more than 3 days due to a work- related illness or injury on FMLA
leave. The leave will be paid for in accordance with law and Village policies.
      7.   Intermittent FMLA. When medically necessary, employees may take FMLA
leave intermittently or on a reduced schedule basis for their own serious
health condition, the serious health condition of a family member, or for
military caregiver leave. Employees are required to actively cooperate with the
Village to arrange reduced work schedules or intermittent leave so as to
minimize disruption of Village operations. Intermittent leave is limited to the
12 weeks provided in the FMLA and is not an entitlement to a permanent part
time job. Intermittent leave will be taken in minimum increments of one hour.
      8.   Second Opinions and Clarification of Medical Certifications. The
Village, at its expense, may require a medical examination by a health care
provider of its own choosing if it has a reasonable question regarding the FMLA
medical certification provided by the employee. In lieu of a second opinion,
the Director of Human Resources may contact the health care provider directly
to clarify or authenticate a medical certification, including certifications
for military caregiver leave. Second opinions may not be required for military
caregiver leave. Separate certification may also be required regarding the
nature of the family member’s military service and/or the existence of a
qualifying exigency.
      9.   Maintenance of Benefits/Payment of Premiums.
         a.   The Village will maintain health care benefits for employees
while on FMLA leave, but the employee is responsible for paying his or her
normal monthly premium. Employees should contact Human Resources for
information on how to pay health insurance premiums during any unpaid leave.
         b.   If the employee elects not to return to work at the end of the
leave period, the employee will be required to reimburse the Village for the
cost of premiums paid for maintaining coverage during the leave period. All
other benefits cease to accrue during the unpaid portion of the leave.
      10.   Concurrent Leave/Use of Paid Leave Time.
         a.   Employees shall use any accumulated sick leave, personal leave
and vacation leave during FMLA leave unless such leave is covered under
workers’ compensation. In workers’ compensation cases, the employee may use
accumulated leave time only for the purpose of satisfying the 3-day waiting
period under Section 8(b) of the Workers Compensation Act. The Village will
place employees who are off work due to a work related illness or injury on
FMLA.
         b.   If an employee is absent from work on an FMLA qualifying leave
for a period of time in excess of the employee’s accumulated leave time, the
leave will be unpaid. As such, the Village encourages employees to accumulate
sick days.
      11.   Married Couples Who Work for the Village. If an employee and his/
her spouse both work for the Village, they are both eligible for leave. The
employee and employee spouse may be limited to a combined total of 12 weeks of
FMLA leave in a 12-month period if the leave is taken for:
         a.   The birth, adoption, or foster placement of a child;
         b.   To care for and bond with such child who does not suffer from a
serious health condition;
         c.   To care for a parent with a serious health condition; or
         d.   A combination of the above
         e.   For military caregiver leave, the employee and employee spouse
may be limited to a combined total of 26 weeks of leave in a 12-month period,
including the types of leave listed above in this paragraph.
      12.   Absenteeism. FMLA leave may not be counted as an absence with
regard to “excessive absenteeism” for performance or disciplinary purposes.
      13.   Return from Leave. Upon return from leave, the employee will be
restored to his/her original or an equivalent position. An employee who fails
to return at the end of FMLA leave will in most cases be considered to have
voluntarily resigned, unless the employee requests and is granted additional
leave as a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      14.   Return to Work Medical Releases. Because the Village wishes to
ensure the safety and well-being of all employees, any employee returning from
worker’s compensation or FMLA leave for his/her own serious health condition
needs to provide a medical release signed by his/her health care provider. An
employee who fails to provide a medical release will be prohibited from
returning to work.
      15.   Fitness for Duty Certifications. If the Village has a reasonable
question as to an employee’s present ability to perform the essential job
functions of his or her job or has a reasonable belief that the employee is
impaired by a medical condition, or that s/he will pose a direct threat due to
a medical condition, the Village may require the employee to submit to a
Fitness for Duty Medical Examination. This examination will be limited in scope
to an assessment of the employee’s ability to perform the essential functions
of the job and is not a broad based medical inquiry. The Village will provide
the certifying physician with the employee’s job description in order to
conduct the examination.
      16.   Light Duty.
         a.   Employees who become ill or injured and are released to return to
work with restrictions may be placed on light duty. The Village will offer
light duty if work is available and within the employee’s medical restrictions,
and if the light duty assignment constitutes a reasonable accommodation for the
employee’s temporary disability. Employees on FMLA may choose to return to work
light duty or may reject the offer of light duty and remain on unpaid leave
until released to return to full duty or until the conclusion of their
protected leave.
         b.   There is no permanent light duty. Light duty will be offered for
a maximum of 120 days. Employees who reach maximum medical improvement with
permanent restrictions on their ability to perform their duties will go through
an ADA interactive process to determine if they can perform the essential
functions of their job with or without a reasonable accommodation that is not
unduly burdensome.
   I.   Funeral Leave. In the event of death in a worker’s immediate family,
employees will be granted paid funeral leave of up to three (3) consecutive
work days, one of which must be the day of the funeral. The employee will
receive his/her normal pay for any scheduled workday that occurs during this
period. For funeral leave purposes immediate family is defined as current
spouse, domestic partner, child, step-child, foster child, father, mother,
mother-in- law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent,
grandchild, sibling, step-sibling, or any other relative domiciled in the
employee’s household. The Village may require reasonable documentation such as
an obituary or death notice to support the need for leave. If the deceased does
not fall under one of these enumerated categories, a special request may be
made of the Mayor.
   J.   Child Bereavement Leave.
      1.   The Village offers its deepest sympathy to any employee who loses a
child. Employees who have worked sufficient hours to qualify for FMLA leave are
entitled to take up to two weeks (10 workdays) of bereavement leave following
the death of a child. “Child” includes an employee’s son or daughter who is a
biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, legal ward, or a child of a
person standing in loco parentis. Child bereavement leave must be used within
60 days after the employee receives notice of the death of his or her child.
      2.   Employees have the option to substitute any accumulated paid leave
time for unpaid leave. The Village will not require employees to use their paid
leave and may allow the employee to take the leave as unpaid.
   K.   Jury Duty.
      1.   The Village supports employees in their civic duty to serve on a
jury. Employees must present any summons to jury duty to their supervisor as
soon as possible after receiving it to allow advance planning for the
employee’s absence.
      2.   Employees serving on jury duty shall be absent from work only during
times required by the courts.
      3.   Full time employees will be paid for jury duty service at their
regular rate of pay.
   L.   Military Leave. The Village of River Grove supports the military
obligations of all employees and grants leave for uniformed service in
accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Military leave is governed
by the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA), 38
U.S.C.A. 4301 to 4333, and by the Local Government Employees Benefits
Continuation Act, 50 ILCS 140. Because of the complex rules governing military
leave, only basic information is provided in this policy. All specific
inquiries or questions should be directed to the Director of Human Resources.
      1.   Reserve Members Benefits Continuation. Any employee who is a member
of any reserve component of the United States Armed Services, including the
Illinois National Guard, and who is mobilized to active military duty as a
result of an order of the President of the United States, shall continue to
receive the same regular compensation that he receives or was receiving as an
employee if he is employed at the time he is or was so mobilized to active
military duty, plus any health insurance and other benefits he is or was
receiving or accruing at that time, minus the amount of his base pay for
military service, for the duration of his active military service.
      2.   Reinstatement.
         a.   Upon return from military leave, employees will be granted the
same seniority, pay, and benefits as if they had worked continuously subject to
and as qualified by the rules and regulations in USERRA.
         b.   Failure to report for work within the prescribed time after
completion of military service will be considered a voluntary termination.
   M.   Military Family Leave. The Village will provide up to 30 days of unpaid
leave to an employee who is the spouse, parent, child or grandparent of a
person called to military service lasting longer than 30 days during the time
federal or state deployment orders are in effect subject to the conditions in
the Illinois Family Military Leave Act, 820 ILCS 151. Leave provided under this
section must be taken after the employee has exhausted all other forms of paid
leave available except sick and disability leave.
   N.   Leave Related to Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault or Stalking.
Consistent with Section 1-17-2(C) of this Code, employees who are a victim of
domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking, or whose family or household
member is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking, may take
up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave in any 12-month period. The Village may require
reasonable documentation to establish the need for leave.
   O.   Time Off for Voting. The Village of River Grove recognizes that voting
is an integral part of being in a community. In almost all cases, you will have
sufficient time outside working hours to vote. If for any reason you think this
will not be the case, contact your supervisor to discuss scheduling
accommodations. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-8: WORKPLACE GUIDELINES:
   A.   Conflicts of Interests and Ethics.
      1.   The Village of River Grove expects all employees to conduct
themselves and Village business in a manner that reflects the highest standards
of ethical conduct, and in accordance with all federal, state, and local laws
and regulations. This includes avoiding real and potential conflicts of
interests.
      2.   All Village employees are required to adhere to the Prohibited
Political Activities and Gift Ban Act provisions in Title 1, Article 22 of this
Village Code.
   B.   Impartiality. Every elected and appointed officer and employee shall
perform his or her duties with impartiality and without prejudice or bias for
the benefit of all citizens of the Village. No officer or employee shall grant
or make available to any citizen, including other officers or employees of the
Village, any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which is
available to every other citizen.
   C.   Prohibited Interests. No employee shall engage in any business or
transaction, nor have a financial or other personal interest, direct or
indirect, in any contract, work or business of the Village which is
incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties in the public
interest, or which may tend to impair his independence of judgment or action in
the performance of his official duties. For purposes of this Section, financial
or personal interest shall include the interests of the spouse or minor
children of the elected or appointed officer or employee.
   D.   Use of Village Equipment.
      1.   Employees are prohibited from using Village vehicles, equipment,
supplies or tools for personal use without the written permission of their
Department Head.
      2.   Employees are responsible for the proper care and operation of
Village vehicles, tools, equipment and supplies assigned or used during work
hours.
      3.   Village vehicles may only be taken home by first responders and only
with the permission of the Department Head or Village President.
      4.   Employees using Village vehicles or wearing Village uniforms or
apparel with the Village’s logo are reminded that they are representatives of
the Village and their conduct, including safe driving and courtesy is a
reflection on the Village.
   E.   Use of Alcohol Prohibited. Employees are prohibited from being
intoxicated or consuming alcohol while on duty or when using a Village vehicle
or wearing a Village uniform.
   F.   Dress and Grooming.
      1.   The Village is committed to maintaining a favorable image with the
public and promoting on-the-job safety. All employees are expected to dress in
business professional attire, in a manner consistent with good hygiene, safety,
and good taste. Acceptable personal appearance is an ongoing requirement of
employment. Employees shall not wear jeans, torn clothing, flip flops, gym
shoes, athletic wear, beachwear, halter tops, crop tops or clothing showing
midriffs, spaghetti straps, tight, revealing or otherwise workplace-
inappropriate dress. This list is not all inclusive. Please use common sense.
Jeans may be worn on Fridays at the discretion of the Mayor.
      2.   Department Directors may determine and enforce department specific
uniform guidelines and grooming and may limit natural or artificial scents that
could be distracting or annoying to others. Supervisors should communicate any
department-specific workplace attire and grooming guidelines to staff members
during new-hire orientation and evaluation periods.
      3.   Violations .of this dress and grooming policy shall be dealt with in
private. If a staff member comes to work in inappropriate dress, or poor
hygiene, the staff member will be required to go home, change into conforming
attire or properly groom, and return to work. Hourly employees will not be
compensated for work time missed because of failure to comply with designated
workplace attire and grooming standards.
      4.   All staff members must carry or wear the Village of River Grove
identification badge when interacting with the public off the Village premises.
   G.   Possession of Firearms. The Village of River Grove prohibits the
possession of weapons in the workplace at all times, including in Village
vehicles, except by sworn members of the Police Department. While on duty,
employees may not carry a weapon of any type. Weapons include, but are not
limited to, handguns, rifles, automatic weapons, and knives that can be used as
weapons (excluding pocket knives, utility knives, and other instruments that
are used to open packages, cut string, and for other miscellaneous tasks),
martial arts paraphernalia, stun guns, and tear gas. Any employee violating
this policy is subject to discipline up to and including termination for the
first offense. This prohibition includes the storage of firearms in personal
vehicles in the Village owned parking lots.
   H.   Loitering. The Village encourages social interaction and the free
exchange of ideas. However, the Village reserves the right to set the time,
place and frequency of employees’ gathering in order to maintain a productive
environment. The Village discourages loitering near and inside Village
buildings and work sites. Loitering includes such behavior as standing idly,
stopping numerous times, visiting other work sites excessively, and interfering
with the productivity of others inside or outside the building during scheduled
work hours.
   I.   Distracted Driving. All employees of the Village are prohibited from
using handheld cell phones while operating a Village vehicle.
   J.   Smoke-Free Workplace Policy.
      1.   Smoking is not allowed in Village buildings, vehicles or work areas
at any time. “Smoking” includes the use of any tobacco or marijuana products,
electronic smoking devices, and e- cigarettes containing nicotine cartridges.
      2.   Smoking is only permitted during break times in designated outdoor
areas. Employees using these areas are expected to dispose of any smoking
debris safely and properly.
   K.   Employee Search Policy. The Village of River Grove reserves the right
to search employee computers, e-mails, desks and work space, lockers, and all
personal belongings of employees on its premises, including briefcases, purses
and handbags, gym bags, and personal vehicles on Village property if it has a
reasonable suspicion of theft of Village property, selling, distributing or
consuming illegal substances, consumption of alcohol on the premises, bringing
a weapon on to Village property in violation of the prohibitions contained in
this Personnel Code, or of any other criminal activity. If personal belongings
are to be searched, the Village will make every effort to have the employee
present.
   L.   Notification of Convictions. Employees are required to inform their
Department Director, who shall inform the Director of Human Resources, of any
criminal charge or conviction of a drug statute within five (5) days of said
charge or conviction.
   M.   Alcohol and Drugs.
      1.   Prohibition. All employees should be aware that the Village of River
Grove is a drug free workplace. Employees are notified that the unlawful
manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or use of a controlled
substance is prohibited at the workplace. Controlled substances are defined in
Illinois law at 720 ILCS 570/201, et. seq., and under federal law at 21 CFR
108-11 through 1308-15.
      2.   Consequences. Employees who are convicted of a drug offense, or who
are found to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol at work, are subject to
discipline up to and including termination. The minimum consequence for being
under the influence of drugs or alcohol at work will be the requirement to
complete a drug abuse assistance and rehabilitation program as determined
appropriate by the Village’s Employee Assistance Provider.
      3.   Employee Assistance. Employees who need assistance with drug use or
dependence are directed to the Village’s Employee Assistance Provider for drug
counseling and rehabilitation. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-9: PERFORMANCE AND DISCIPLINE:
   A.   Informal Performance Evaluations. In order to assist employees to grow,
learn and improve their job performance, supervisors will provide regular,
informal feedback to their employees throughout the year.
   B.   Formal Performance Review.
      1.   Supervisors shall conduct formal performance evaluations of
employees on an annual basis, by October 31st of each year. Formal performance
reviews shall be used for the purpose of documenting performance improvements
and deficiencies. These reviews shall be in writing.
      2.   Performance evaluations are designed to inform employees how they
are performing and how they can improve their performance. The performance
evaluation may also be used in determining salary changes, as a factor in
determining order of lay-off, as a basis for training, promotion, demotion,
transfer, or dismissal, and for such other purposes as set forth in these
regulations.
      3.   New employees will be evaluated after their first six months of
employment and again on or about their one-year anniversary. Probationary
employees who do not receive an overall performance evaluation score of “meets
expectations” will be considered to have failed their probationary period and
will be separated from employment.
      4.   Supervisors will fill out written evaluation forms and provide them
to the Director of Human Resources. The Director of Human Resources will review
the performance evaluations for objectivity, fairness and equity across all
employees. If corrections are necessary, the Director of Human Resources will
submit suggested corrections back to the supervisor. After the written
evaluation is completed, the supervisor will meet with the employee to provide
an annual review.
      5.   Written evaluations are prepared and conducted by the employee’s
direct supervisor and signed by the Department Director and/or the Director of
Human Resources. Evaluations will be on a standardized form for each job
classification. Employees should sign the evaluation form upon completion of
their review. Each evaluation will be confidential in accordance with the law
and placed in the employee’s personnel file.
      6.   The evaluator will discuss each performance evaluation with the
employee being evaluated. If an employee disagrees with any statement in an
evaluation, the employee may submit, within five (5) days following the
conference, a written statement that will be attached to the evaluation form.
   C.   Disciplinary Action.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of regulating the conduct of employees is to
maintain standards of performance and set reasonable rules that promote the
orderly operation of the Village. Disciplinary action may be necessary to
insure these regulations are followed.
      2.   Discipline. Any action or inaction which violates the rules and
policies set forth in this code, or which brings discredit upon the Village, or
hinders the effective performance of the Village, may result in discipline.
Disciplinary action may be taken in the following circumstances. This list is
not all inclusive and there may be other unique circumstances where discipline
is warranted.
         a.   Untruthfulness in any form, including, but not limited to:
providing false, incomplete or misleading statements in an application or other
Village form; providing false information on the quality or quantity of work
performed; providing false testimony or evidence; fraudulent use of worker’s
compensation benefits or other forms of leave; false statements in an
interrogation; false testimony in court or in any other proceeding; and any
other form or type of untruthfulness;
         b.   Excessive absenteeism or tardiness;
         c.   Absence without leave;
         d.   Use of sick leave or any other leave for an unauthorized reason;
         e.   Failure to return to work when authorized to return by a
physician;
         f.   Engaging in secondary employment when on disability or sick
leave;
         g.   Incompetence, inefficiency or neglect in the performance of one’s
job duties;
         h.   Abuse or destruction of Village property;
         i.   Theft of Village funds or property;
         j.   Use of Village labor, computers, equipment machinery, uniforms,
images, logos or position for personal purposes without permission;
         k.   Any act which endangers the health, safety, or well-being of the
employee, coworkers or the general public, or which is of sufficient magnitude
as to disrupt work or discredit the Village;
         l.   Conduct on or off the job unbecoming of a Village employee or
which brings damage or discredit to the Village;
         m.   Insubordination, unreasonable or inappropriate conduct;
         n.   Unlawful harassment, discrimination or retaliation;
         o.   Conviction of a felony or other crime;
         p.   Being under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs, or drugs in
excess of prescription amounts while on duty;
         q.   Sale, delivery, receipt or use of un-prescribed drugs, or the use
of prescribed drugs on duty which may affect performance or endanger other
employees or the public without notifying the supervisor;
         r.   Assault, fighting or engaging in horseplay on duty;
         s.   Offensive or abusive language or discourtesy to others;
         t.   Loafing, lounging, sleeping on duty, using computer for personal
purposes, or visiting other work locations without a work-related reason;
         u.   Solicitation of any donation, gift, or other thing of value for
personal benefit during work hours, or the attempt to sell any item, service or
product or perform any other business during work time;
         v.   Violations of Chapter 22 of the Village Code, the Ethics Code of
the Officials and Employees of the Village of River Grove.
         w.   Violation of Village regulations, procedures, and personnel
policies,
         x.   Any other acts of incompetence, misfeasance, malfeasance or
nonfeasance during work hours.
   Employees are reminded that they are employees at will and may be subject to
termination for any reason with or without cause.
      3.   Progressive Discipline. The Village will administer discipline in
proportion to the offense. Immediate termination may be warranted in cases of
serious infractions, while in other cases progressive discipline is more
appropriate. Department Directors and the Director of Human Resources may skip
one or more steps in the progressive discipline process on a case by case
basis. In all cases of discipline, the Director of Human Resources or his/her
designee will notify the employee of the action taken, the reasons for the
action, place a copy of such in the employee’s personnel file.
         a.   Record of Oral Warning. Either a Department Director, or the
Director of Human Resources may issue an oral warning to an employee. The
Director will record the details of the oral warning and provide the employee
with a copy. The employee will sign the written acknowledgment of the oral
reprimand. If the employee refuses to sign the reprimand, the Director will
make a note that signature was refused. The acknowledgment of oral reprimand
will be placed in the employee’s Personnel File.
         b.   Written Reprimand. The Director of Human Resources in conjunction
with the Department Director will submit a written reprimand to an employee.
The employee will have an opportunity to discuss the proposed reprimand before
its issuance. The employee will acknowledge the written reprimand in writing.
If the employee refuses to sign the reprimand, the Director will make a note
that signature was refused. Written reprimands will be placed in the employee’s
Personnel File. Employees will have an opportunity to submit a written
explanation or rebuttal. Copies of all reprimands will be forwarded to the
employee, the Department Director, and the personnel file.
         c.   Suspension. An employee may be suspended with or without pay for
up to ten (10) days, or more if an investigation is in progress. A day of
suspension shall be defined as a regular work shift for the employee. For
purposes of equity across all classes of employment, the Village will take the
length of an employee’s shift into consideration when determining the length of
an unpaid suspension. An employee will have an opportunity to discuss a
proposed suspension before its issuance and may have a statement entered into
the personnel record. A written statement specifically setting forth the reason
for a suspension will be furnished to the employee. Copies will be forwarded to
the Department Director and placed in the employee’s personnel file.
         d.   Termination. The Village may terminate any employee at any time
for any reason, including but not limited to an employee whose job performance
or actions violate the standards set forth in this policy or are determined to
be detrimental to the Village. Department Directors shall recommend termination
of an employee to the Director of Human Resources. The Director of Human
Resources shall investigate the reason for the recommendation with the
Department Director. The Director of Human Resources shall document the
requested termination and present the request to the Village President. The
Village President will authorize all final employment actions.
   In all cases, the Village shall notify the employee of the action in writing
and a copy of such notice shall be retained in the employee’s file. Statements
by the employee may be placed in the personnel file. All employees of the
Village are considered at will employees and may be terminated at any time by
the Village for any reason or no reason with or without cause. (Ord. 2025-01,
1-6-2025)
1-17-10: EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCES AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
   A.   The Village of River Grove has an open-door policy such that employees
are encouraged to resolve any grievance or dispute which may arise between
employees and supervisory personnel, including issues or problems with the
terms and conditions of the workplace, and the application, meaning, or
interpretation of this Personnel Code. Employees shall direct their concerns
initially to their immediate supervisor. If the concern is not resolved at the
supervisor level, the employee may elevate their concern to the Department
Director. If the employee’s concern is not resolved at the Department Director
level, employees should direct their concerns to the Director of Human
Resources.
   B.   Any employee who has received disciplinary action, short of dismissal,
has the option to pursue the guidelines established in the Grievance Procedure.
Employees must follow this communication policy and should not initiate
disciplinary or workplace grievances with the Village President or any member
of the Board of Trustees except in compliance with the Whistleblower Policy
contained in this code.
   C.   These grievance procedures shall not apply to any member of the Police
Department who is covered by a Collective Bargaining Agreement.
   D.   Failure to follow any grievance procedure as outlined will not have any
bearing on disciplinary action taken against the employee or exempt the
employee from completing assigned work or following any order or direction.
   E.   These grievance procedures shall not apply to the decision to terminate
an employee for any reason. The Director of Human Resources will review each
termination to ensure that it is for valid business reasons and not a pretext
for discrimination, retaliation or in violation of the employee’s protected
rights under this policy or any federal or state law. Terminations approved by
the Director of Human Resources and authorized by the Village President shall
be final. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-11: SEPARATION FROM EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Retirement. All employees who work more than 1000 hours a year
participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, IMRF.
      1.   Employees who first participated in the IMRF before January 1, 2011,
are in IMRF Tier 1. Tier 1 employees are first eligible to retire with an IMRF
pension after 8 years of creditable service and upon attaining the age of 55
years or older.
      2.   Employees who first participated in IMRF on or after January 1,
2011, are in IMRF Tier 2. Tier 2 employees are first eligible to retire after
10 years of creditable service and upon attaining the age of 62 or older.
      3.   The amount of pension is dependent on the employee’s final rate of
earnings and the employee’s length of service. Employees are directed to the
IMRF’s web site, www.imrf.org or to the Village’s authorized agent for more
details.
   B.   Resignation. Employees must file a written notice of resignation with
the Director of Human Resources. Once received and accepted, the notice is
final and may not be rescinded except at the discretion of the Director of
Human Resources. In order to separate from Village employment in good standing,
exiting employees are expected to provide a minimum of 14 days’ notice (unless
extenuating circumstances exist).
   C.   Exit Interviews. All employees will be asked to complete an exit
interview. The primary purpose of the exit interview will be to gain
information related to a particular position to improve departmental
performance. The Director of Human Resources will administer exit interviews
for all employees who voluntarily separate from employment. Department
Directors may request exit interviews for other exiting employees but in all
cases exit interviews will be voluntary on the part of the employee.
   D.   Separation Check List. All employees must return all Village property,
such as keys, equipment, employee identification, any Village issued phones,
machinery or vehicles to the Director of Human Resources upon separation.
   E.   COBRA Former employees are entitled to extend their health insurance
coverage under the Village’s existing health plan by paying the full premium in
accordance with COBRA or Section 367e of the Illinois Insurance Code, 215 ILCS
5/367e. (Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-12: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:
   A.   Village Benefits.
      1.   The Village of River Grove recognizes the value of benefits to
employees and their families. The Village supports employees by offering a
comprehensive health care and competitive benefits program. The Village’s
employee benefits package is available to full-time employees working 37.5
hours or more per week. Full time employees are eligible for the Village’s
benefit package on the first day of the month following their 60th day of
employment. The Village offers the following employee benefits:
         a.   Health, Prescription Drug, Dental and Vision insurance benefits
         b.   Group Life Insurance
         c.   Flexible Spending S125
         d.   Post-Employment Health Plan through Nationwide Retirement Systems
         e.   Ability to participate in a 457 Deferred Compensation plan of the
Village
         f.   Employee Assistance Program
      2.   The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides highly confidential
counseling and referral services that can help employees deal with life’s
challenges and issues that affect the quality of their job performance. This
free, comprehensive counseling service offers employees three visits per issue
each year, and a 24-hour hotline answered by professional, degreed counselors.
      3.   The Village encourages employees to use this valuable service.
Employees who choose to use these counseling services are assured the
information disclosed in their sessions is confidential and not available to
the Village, nor is the Village given any information on who chooses to use the
services. For questions or additional information about this program, employees
may contact the Human Resources department.
   B.   Statutory Benefits.
      1.   IMRF Pension. Employees’ participation in the IMRF Pension is
described in Section
1-17-11 (A) of this Code. Employees are also directed to the website
www.imrf.com for details.
      2.   IMRF Temporary and Permanent Disability. Employees who participate
in the IMRF are eligible for short and long-term disability regardless of
whether the illness or injury is work related. To be eligible for disability
benefits an employee must have:
         a.   At least 12 consecutive months of IMRF service credit since being
enrolled in IMRF.
         b.   Service credit in each of the 12 months immediately preceding the
date of disability.
   Employees are directed to the IMRF website, www.imrf.org for more details.
      3.   Workers’ Compensation. Workers’ compensation is a “no-fault” system
that provides compensation for medical expenses and lost wages to employees who
are injured or who become ill arising out of and in the course of their
employment. The Village of River Grove pays the entire cost of workers’
compensation insurance. The Village abides by all applicable state workers’
compensation laws and regulations.
         a.   Filing a Claim. If an employee sustains a work-related injury or
illness, the employee must notify the Department Director or the Director of
Human Resources immediately. The employee must fill out an Employee’s First
Report of Injury or Illness as soon as the employee is medically able to do so
and return it to the Department Director. The Department Director will complete
the injury report and return it to the Director of Human Resources department.
The Director of Human Resources will file the claim with the Village’s
insurance company. In cases of true medical emergencies, employees should
immediately report to the nearest emergency room.
         b.   Salary and Benefits. Employees who suffer a work-related illness
or injury which necessitates time off work will receive their regular pay for 3
days. After 3 days off work, the employee will be paid disability benefits in
accordance with law. Workers’ compensation benefits (paid or unpaid) will run
concurrently with FMLA leave, if applicable, where permitted by state and
federal law.
         c.   Salary Continuation for Full Time Police. In accordance with the
Public Employee Disability Act, 5 ILCS 345/1, full time police officers who
suffer an injury in the line of duty will be paid on the same basis as before
the injury, with no deduction from sick leave credits, compensatory time for
overtime accumulations or vacation, or service credits in the police pension
fund during the time they are unable to perform their duties due to the result
of the injury, but not longer than one year in relation to the same injury.
(Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
1-17-13: EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT:
As a condition of employment, all employees shall sign an acknowledgment of
review of this Personnel Code, which may be printed in manual format and
distributed to each employee, which acknowledgment shall be in substantially
the form set forth below.
   EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL CODE ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND RECEIPT
   I hereby acknowledge receipt of the Personnel Code of the Village of River
Grove. I understand and agree that it is my responsibility to read and comply
with the policies in the code.
   I understand that this Personnel Code and all other written and oral
materials provided to me are intended for informational purposes only. Neither
it, Village practices, nor other communications create an employment contract
or term. I understand that the policies and benefits, both in this Code and
those communicated to me in any other fashion, are subject to interpretation,
review, and change by Village authorities at any time without notice.
   I further agree that neither this document nor any other communication shall
bind the Village to employ me now or hereafter and that my employment may be
terminated by me or the Village at anytime without reason. I understand that no
representative of the Village has any authority to enter into any agreement for
employment for any specified period of time or to assure any other personnel
action or to assure any benefits or terms or conditions of employment, or make
any agreement contrary to the foregoing.
   I also understand that this Personnel Code was duly adopted by the corporate
authorities of the Village of River Grove and may therefore only be amended by
resolution of the President and Board of Trustees.
                                                            Employee’s Name in
Print
                                                            Employee’s
Signature
                                                            Date Signed
   TO BE PLACED IN EMPLOYEE’S PERSONNEL FILE
(Ord. 2025-01, 1-6-2025)
CHAPTER 18
PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-18-1: Sexual Harassment
1-18-2: Drug And Alcohol Control Testing Policy
1-18-3: Illinois Paid Leave For all Workers Act
1-18-1: SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   (A)   Policy Prohibiting Sexual Harassment: All persons have a right to work
in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is
unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is the policy of the Village of River Grove to prohibit sexual
harassment of its employees by any employee, officer, vendor or citizen. All
Municipal officials and employees are prohibited from sexually harassing any
person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof.
All employees, both supervisors and non-supervisors, are responsible for
creating a work environment free from discrimination and sexual harassment.
Employees are advised that submission to discrimination, harassment or sexual
harassment shall not be an explicit or implicit condition of employment and
that submission to or rejection of such conduct shall not be used as a basis
for making employment decisions. Employment, and changes to the terms and
conditions of employment in the Village will be based strictly on an
individual's merit, skills and qualifications.
Verified offenses are considered misconduct and offenders are subject to
disciplinary action up to and including termination.
   (B)   Definitions:
      1.   Meaning: "Sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors or conduct of a sexual nature when: a) submission to
such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an
individual's employment, b) submission to or rejection of such conduct by an
individual is used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such
individual, or c) such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive working environment. For purposes of this definition, the
phrase "working environment" is not limited to the physical location an
employee is assigned to perform his or her duties and does not require an
employment relationship.
Sexual harassment applies to either sex and may occur between members of the
same sex.
Sexual harassment may be a pattern of offensive conduct or a single, unusually
severe incident.
      2.   Examples Of Sexual Harassment: It is not possible to list all
circumstances that may constitute sexual harassment, however, the following are
some examples of conduct that, if unwelcome, may constitute sexual harassment
depending on the totality of the circumstances, including the severity of the
conduct and its pervasiveness:
         (a)   Sexual assaults and unwanted sexual advances or propositions,
whether they involve physical touching or not;
         (b)   Physical contact whether amorous or hostile for which there is
no consent express or implied;
         (c)   Intimidating words or acts;
         (d)   Unwelcome leering, whistling, brushing up against the body,
sexual gestures, or suggestive or insulting comments;
         (e)   Sexual or obscene teasing, innuendos, suggestions, or comments,
epithets, jokes, written or oral references to sexual conduct, gossip regarding
one's sex life, comments about an individual's body, comments about an
individual's sexual activity, deficiencies, or prowess;
         (f)   Repeated requests for dates;
         (g)   Obscene gestures;
         (h)   Displaying written or visual nudity, sexually suggestive
objects, pictures, or cartoons;
         (i)   Inquiries into one's sexual experiences;
         (j)   Discussion of one's own sexual activities.
Conduct need not be directed at a particular individual to constitute sexual
harassment. An employee may be negatively affected by sexual jokes, visual
displays or harassing behavior in the workplace even if the behavior is not
directed at the employee. Additionally, preferential treatment of an employee
or the promise of preferential treatment of an employee in exchange for dates
or sexual conduct, denial or threat of denial of employment benefits or
advancement for refusal to consent to sexual advances is considered harassment
and is prohibited conduct.
   (C)   Procedure For Reporting And Investigating Complaints Of Sexual
Harassment: The Village cannot stop sexual harassment that it does not know
about. Victims of, and witnesses to sexual harassment are therefore requested
and encouraged to report the behavior immediately.
      1.   Reporting:
         (a)   Complaint To Harassing Individual: Victims are advised, but not
required, to first assert their right to a workplace free from sexual
harassment by complaining directly to the person who is harassing them. This
may stop the harassment before it becomes more serious.
Employees who are victims of, or witnesses to sexual harassment must
immediately report the harassment, either verbally or in writing, to the
employee's department director, or to the Director of Human Resources, or to
any other member of management with whom they feel comfortable bringing such a
complaint. Any supervisor or manager receiving such a complaint shall forward
the complaint to the Director of Human Resources or to the Village President.
If the complaint concerns the Director of Human Resources, the employee may
complain directly to the Village President. If the individual feels the need to
report sexual harassment to someone of their preferred gender, they may speak
to the Director of Human Resources to make appropriate arrangements.
         (b)   Resolution Outside Municipality: Employees are also advised that
they also have the right to contact the Illinois Department of Human Rights
(IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for information
regarding filing a formal complaint with those entities. An IDHR complaint must
be filed within one hundred eighty (180) days of the alleged incident(s) unless
it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must be filed within
three hundred (300) days.
         (c)   Contents Of A Report: Employees making a report of sexual
harassment shall provide the name of the person committing the harassment, the
specific nature of the harassment, whether it was a single incident or a
pattern of behavior, any employment action taken as a result of the harassment
(demotion, promotion, reassignment, victimization), dates, times and locations
where harassment has occurred, the identity of any known witnesses to the
harassment, and whether the harassment was previously reported.
Employees are encouraged to document any incidents and to submit such
documentation with any report (what was said or done, the date, the time and
the place), including, but not limited to, written records such as emails,
letters, notes, memos, photographs and telephone messages.
      2.   Investigation: Upon receipt of a complaint of sexual harassment, the
Director of Human Resources, or if the complaint concerns the Director of Human
Resources, then the Village Attorney or another individual selected by the
Village President will promptly conduct an investigation of the complaint. The
Village will also investigate complaints of sexual harassment that become known
to the Village indirectly, such as by social media posts or other sources.
         (a)   Any individual selected to investigate the charge must have the
following attributes:
            (1)   A background with no history or record of harassment;
            (2)    Knowledge of the company's policies and equal employment
opportunity obligations;
            (3)   Professionalism and competence to remain impartial,
objective, and fair during the investigation.
         (b)   The investigation of a complaint of harassment will depend on
the seriousness of the allegations, and the specific circumstances, but should
include the following:
            (1)   Interview with all parties involved and witnesses;
            (2)   A determination of the facts of the incident or incidents
complained of;
            (3)   A determination of the validity and seriousness of the charge
and the credibility of witnesses;
            (4)   If there is an issue as to whether sexual behavior was
welcome or unwelcome, a finding of fact on that issue;
            (5)   In a quid pro quo case, a determination as to whether the
stated reason for the employment decision was pretextual;
            (6)   A written report to the President and Board of Trustees
detailing the facts and circumstances, accompanied by a recommendation for
appropriate corrective action.
         (c)   The Village of River Grove prohibits willfully interfering with
the investigation of a complaint of harassment by or about a Village employee.
      3.   Confidentiality: The Village of River Grove will make every effort
to keep complaints of sexual harassment confidential, but it cannot promise
confidentiality because it may be necessary to reveal the identity of the
complainant as part of the investigation and to allow the respondent the legal
right to a defense.
      4.   Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report Of Sexual
Harassment: A false report of harassment differs from a report made in good
faith which cannot be proven. A false report is a report of sexual harassment
made by an accuser to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment
or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report of sexual harassment shall be subject to discipline up to
and including discharge.
      5.   Prohibition Against Retaliation:
         (a)   Retaliatory Action Defined: For the purposes of this policy,
retaliatory action means the reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial
of promotion or transfer, or decrease in pay, change in the terms or conditions
of employment, isolation, victimization, intimidation, threats of physical harm
of any Municipal employee that is taken in retaliation for a Municipal
employee's involvement in protected activity pursuant to this policy.
Consistent with the Whistleblower Act, employees are also protected from
retaliatory acts or omissions not specifically set forth above, and threats or
retaliatory acts or omissions, whether within or without the workplace, if the
act or omission would be materially adverse to a reasonable employee and is
because of the employee disclosed or attempting to disclose wrongdoing.
         (b)   Prohibition On Retaliation: Any act of retaliation violates this
policy. Anyone found to have retaliated against anyone who reported a concern
in accordance with this policy; opposed that which he or she reasonably and in
good faith believes to be sexual harassment; made a charge, filed a complaint,
testified, assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or
hearing related to a charge of harassment is subject to discipline, up to and
including termination of employment. No individual making a report will be
retaliated against even if a report made in good faith is not substantiated. In
addition, any witness will be protected from retaliation.
         Any employee who believes he/she is being retaliated against must
contact the Human Resources Director as soon as possible.
         The right of employees to be protected from retaliation does not make
the employee immune from discipline or adverse employment action for other acts
of misconduct.
         (c)   Retaliation Charge: An employee who believes (s)he has been
retaliated against after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC). (Ord. 2018-01, 1-4-2018, eff. 1-15-2018; amd. Ord.
2018-14, 6-7-2018)
1-18-2: DRUG AND ALCOHOL CONTROL TESTING POLICY:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this drug and alcohol control testing policy
is to:
      1.   Maintain the quality of the Village's services and the public's
trust in the Village;
      2.   Maintain the high standards of conduct, integrity and job
performance in the work place;
      3.   Prevent accidents, casualties and improper performance of duties
that may result from impairment of employees from drugs or alcohol;
      4.   Enforce the Village's rules against use of alcohol and the illegal
use of narcotics and controlled substances by employees either in the work
place or which effects the work place;
      5.   Encourage employees with a drug or alcohol dependency to voluntarily
seek rehabilitation, counseling or treatment services; and,
      6.   Establish and maintain a drug and alcohol free work place.
   (B)   Definitions:
    ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol ("ethanol") and refers to any beverage, mixture or
preparation containing ethyl alcohol.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any substance listed on schedules I - V of 21 CFR 1301
- 1316 or as defined in the Illinois Controlled Substance Act and the Illinois
Cannabis Control Act as they may from time to time be revised or amended and
includes marijuana, narcotics (such as heroin and codeine), stimulants (such as
cocaine and amphetamines), depressants (such as barbiturates and minor
tranquilizers), and hallucinogens (such as drugs known as PCP and LSD).
Controlled substances also include illicit drugs (schedule 1), drugs that are
required to be distributed only by a medical practitioner's prescription or
other authorization (schedules III - V, and drugs on schedule V), and certain
preparations for which distribution is thoroughly documented (schedule V only).
   DRUG: Any substance, other than alcohol, that has known mind or function
altering affects on a human subject, specifically including any psycho active
substance and including, but not limited to, controlled substances.
   SUBSTANCE ABUSE: The abuse of alcohol, illegal drugs and/or legal drugs.
   (C)   Prohibited Conduct:
      1.   No employee shall report to work, perform any work, or remain on
duty while:
         (a)   Under the influence of any alcohol, drug and/or controlled
substance; or
         (b)   Having 0.04 percent or more alcohol in the blood.
      2.   The unlawful manufacture, dispensation, possession, use, sale and/or
distribution of alcohol, drugs and/or controlled substances on Village
property, on Village projects, in Village vehicles, or during working hours is
prohibited.
      3.   The unlawful manufacture, dispensation, sale, possession, use, and/
or distribution of drugs or controlled substances off-duty is prohibited where:
         (a)   The employee's conduct adversely affects the Village's
reputation;
         (b)   The employee possessed quantities for sale; or
         (c)   The employee has been convicted of its sale.
Criminal Drug Statute conviction: Any employee convicted for a violation of a
Federal and/or State Criminal Drug Statute occurring in the work place must
report the conviction to the Village no later than five (5) days after such
conviction. Any employee who fails to comply with this notice requirement shall
be subject to immediate discharge.
      4.   Drinking alcoholic beverages or use of other intoxicants, drugs, or
controlled substances during working hours, during breaks or during lunch is
prohibited.
      5.   The Village may, at its discretion, inspect any locker, package,
purse, tool box, or vehicle in connection with the investigation of any rule
violation. Employees shall cooperate in all investigations of suspected rule
violations.
      6.   This section does not prohibit the use of a controlled substance on
schedule II - V of the Controlled Substance List if use was prescribed or
authorized by a medical practitioner, or possession incident to such use if:
         (a) A testing medical practitioner or physician designated by the
Village has made a good faith judgment in writing, with notice of the
employee's assigned duties and on the basis of the available medical history,
that the use of the substance by the employee at the prescribed or authorized
dosage level is consistent with the safe performance of the employee's duties;
and
         (b) The substance is used at the dosage prescribed or authorized.
      7.   Employees shall notify the Village of therapeutic drug use or obtain
prior approval for such use, including over-the-counter medications where the
manufacturer advises against use while operating motorized vehicles or
machinery. Employees should read all labels and instructions carefully.
   (D)   Testing Of Current Employees (Excluding Sworn Police Officers):
      1.   The Village may, under the conditions specified in this section,
require any current employee not on layoff, as a condition of continued
employment, to cooperate in urine testing to determine compliance with the
prohibition against substance abuse. The authority to test current employees
not on layoff or a leave of absence shall be limited to testing after
observations or events that occur during working hours as defined in this
section.
      2.   The Village shall have the right to require an employee to undergo
urine testing when two (2) supervisory employees have a reasonable suspicion
that an employee is currently under the influence of alcohol, a drug and/or a
controlled substance, based upon specific personal observations that the
supervisory employees can articulate concerning the appearance, behavior,
conduct, speech or body odors of the employee. Whenever possible, supervisory
employees should consult the Personnel Director before testing is conducted.
      3.   The Village may, at its discretion, require employees to undergo
urine testing when directly or indirectly involved in accidents during working
hours or violations of safety rules.
      4.   The Village may, in its discretion, require an employee who has
previously completed drug or alcohol counseling, treatment or rehabilitation
required under this policy, to submit to periodic follow-up testing for up to
two (2) years after completing rehabilitation, treatment or counseling.
      5.   Nothing in this policy requires the Village to undertake urine
testing as a prerequisite to any disciplinary action or restricts the
discretion of the Village to proceed based solely on the evidence of behavior,
personal observations, or other evidence.
      6.   The Village will protect the confidentiality of any test results.
Positive test results are not to be communicated to other employees or persons
outside of the Village without the employee's written consent. As an additional
measure, access to the information and its dissemination will be limited to
only those Village managers who would need to have knowledge of the test
results.
      7.   Under this policy, any employee may at any time voluntarily enroll
in a drug and/or alcohol rehabilitation, counseling or treatment program
without being subject to discipline; however, if such employee then
subsequently tests positive for substance abuse at a later date, he or she may
be subject to discipline up to and including discharge.
   (E)   Testing Procedures: All drug and alcohol testing shall be done with
the highest possible regard for accuracy, reliability, expediency, employee
confidentiality and privacy. Testing procedures shall be as follows:
      1.   Substance Abuse Testing: Individuals who are required to take a test
will be sent to an independent medical facility for substance abuse testing.
Testing is by urine sample. Prior to a urine test, the individual will be
requested to provide information concerning all drugs or medication used within
the previous sixty (60) days. Individuals suspected of substance abuse while at
work shall be escorted by a supervisor to the independent medical facility. At
the time this policy goes into effect, the Village uses the Gottlieb Community
Health Center located at 2930 North Mannheim Road in Franklin Park, Illinois
for testing. The health center is located north of Grand Avenue on the west
side of Mannheim Road, and its telephone number is (708) 451-4060.
      2.   Procedures For Testing: At the medical facility, the following
procedures shall apply:
         (a) Individual must empty pockets and lockup wallet, briefcase,
purses, etc., into a specified locker.
         (b) Individual must fill out and complete health center consent forms
in front of appropriate personnel. At this time, each individual should also
deliver the enclosed Village consent form to the health center personnel if it
has not been delivered to the Village beforehand.
         (c) Individual must wash hands with soap and water.
         (d) Individual is given a collection cup and escorted to drug testing
collection washroom. This washroom is used for drug/urine specimen collection
only. No water source is available in this room, and bluing is added to the
commode.
         (e) Individual is advised that he or she may not flush the commode
until the specimen is given to the collector.
         (f) Once specimen is delivered to the collector, the collector
verifies the temperature and color of the urine. If the temperature is out of
the norm, the collector will not accept the specimen and the individual will be
disqualified for further consideration of employment with the Village.
         (g) Individual then completes the requisition and seals the specimen
in front of the collector.
         (h) All specimens are sent by carrier to a NIDA approved laboratory.
Negative specimen reports are returned to the health center within twenty four
(24) hours; while positive test results are confirmed by Gas Chromatography
Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) and final results are returned to the health center
between forty eight (48) and ninety six (96) hours after testing.
      3.   Adulterated Samples: If medical personnel at the collection site
determine that an adulterated sample has been provided, they shall record such
information and provide this information to the Village. If the Village learns
that an employee provided or attempted to provide an adulterated urine sample,
the employee will be presumed to have tested positive and will be subject to
discipline including possible discharge by the Village.
      4.   Confidentiality: The test results shall be reported to the Village
in a confidential manner.
      5.   Second Opinion Testing: In any case where a urine test is intended
for use in the Village's disciplinary process, an employee may request second
opinion testing in accordance with the following guidelines:
         (a) The request must be made to the Village Director of Personnel in
writing within twenty four (24) hours of being notified of the laboratory
report as provided to the Village.
         (b) The employee must pay the total cost of the second opinion test,
including the cost of the initial drug screen and confirming test and any
courier fee, at the time the request is made. If the second opinion test is
negative, the Village will reimburse the employee for these costs.
         (c) The second opinion test must be performed by a testing laboratory
approved by the Village.
         (d) An approved chain of custody procedure must be followed with
respect to the release of the sample(s) to the laboratory which is going to
perform the second opinion test, so that the sample(s) will only be released
directly to the laboratory.
         (e) All procedures set forth in this policy, including procedures
regarding consent forms and cut-off limits for positive drug tests, shall be
strictly observed.
         (f) If the second opinion test is negative, any discipline the
employee has received will be voided and no further disciplinary action will be
taken against the employee.
      6.   Reimbursement For Lost Work Time: Employees who are tested will not
be allowed to return to work until test results are received by the Village. If
test results are negative, employees shall be reimbursed by the Village for any
lost time.
      7.   Positive Drug Tests: The cut-off limits recognized by the testing
laboratory designated by the Village will be used to determine whether the
urine screen is positive for alcohol, drugs and/or their metabolites. All
positive test results shall be reviewed by a qualified Medical Review Officer.
      8.   Payment: Subject to subsection (E)5 of this section, the Village
shall pay for all substance abuse testing that it directs.
   (F)   Consent:
      1.   Any employee who performs work for the Village on and after the
effective date of this policy shall be deemed to have consented to testing as
required in subsections (D), (E) and (F) of this section and shall participate
in such testing as required under the conditions set forth in this policy. Any
employee who is required to be tested under this policy and/or who is taken to
a medical facility for observation or treatment after an accident shall be
deemed to have consented to the release to the Village of the following:
         (a) The remaining portion of any body fluid sample taken by the
treating facility within twelve (12) hours of the accident or incident that is
not required for medical purposes together with any normal medical facility
record(s) pertaining to the taking of such sample;
         (b) Results of any laboratory test conducted by or for the treating
facility on such sample; and,
         (c) The identity, dosage and time of administration of any drugs
administered by the treating facility prior to the time samples were taken by
the treating facility or prior to the time samples were taken in compliance
with this policy.
      2.   An employee required to participate in body fluid testing under this
policy shall, if requested by the Village or the medical facility, evidence
consent to the taking of the samples in the release for toxicological analysis
by properly executing a consent form required by the medical facility. Any
employee failing to execute the consent form required by the medical facility
shall be subject to immediate discharge from employment.
      3.   Nothing in this policy shall be construed to authorize the use of
physical coercion in order to compel body fluid testing.
   (G)   Refusal To Cooperate: Any employee who refuses to cooperate in an
investigation or in providing a urine sample as specified in this policy shall
be subject to discipline up to and including discharge. Additionally, any
employee who tampers or attempts to tamper with a urine sample, who substitutes
or attempts to substitute a urine sample, or who otherwise adulterates any
urine sample shall be presumed to have tested positive and shall also be
subject to discipline up to and including discharge.
   (H)   Presumption Of Impairment For Current Employees: If an employee's
urine sample has tested positive for alcohol, drugs or a controlled substance
(or its metabolites) in a test authorized by this policy or in second opinion
testing, the Village may presume from the presence of the identified alcohol,
drug or controlled substance that the employee was under the influence of that
alcohol, drug or controlled substance within the meaning of subsection (B) of
this section.
   (I)   Drug Testing Of Applicants And Employees On Layoff Or A Leave Of
Absence Exceeding One Year:
      1.   All applicants for hire or recall at the Village, if conditionally
offered employment or reemployment, shall be given notice that they shall only
be considered for unconditional hire or recall after they successfully pass
drug abuse testing. This notice should be given when the applicant is given a
conditional offer of employment or reemployment. A release and consent form for
the drug abuse testing shall be signed by the applicant after receiving a
conditional offer of employment or reemployment.
      2.   Applicants who have been conditionally hired or recalled will be
sent to an independent medical facility for drug abuse testing. The drug abuse
testing shall be by urine sample. Prior to the test, the applicant will be
requested to provide information concerning all drugs or medication used within
the previous sixty (60) days.
      3.   The test results should be reported to the Village in a confidential
manner.
      4.   Testing of applicants for hire or recall will follow the procedures
of subsection (E) of this section.
      5.   The Village will undertake action to protect the confidentiality of
any test results. Positive test results are not to be communicated to other
employees or persons outside of the Village without the employee's written
consent. As an additional measure, access to the information and its
dissemination will be limited to only those Village department heads who need
to have knowledge of the test results. The fact that an applicant for hire or
recall chose to remove himself or herself from further consideration for
employment rather than submit to the substance abuse test should remain
confidential.
      6.   A positive test result, refusal to be tested, or evidence of
tampering, adulteration or substitution shall disqualify an applicant for
further employment.
   (J)   Disciplinary Action: All employees who test positive for substance
abuse may, at the Village's discretion, be required to undergo a qualified
assessment and/or may be required to enroll in and successfully complete a drug
and/or alcohol rehabilitation, treatment or counseling program. Alternatively,
the Village may otherwise discipline including discharge any employee who tests
positive for substance abuse. Any employee shall be subject to immediate
termination after the first offense in any one of the following circumstances:
      1.   Refuses to take an authorized urine test.
      2.   Participates in the manufacture, dispensation, sale, possession, use
and/or distribution of drugs or controlled substances on Village premises and/
or during Village time.
      3.   Drinks alcoholic beverages or uses drugs and/or controlled
substances during working hours, or during breaks, between shifts, or at lunch
if the employee is scheduled or may be assigned to work thereafter on the same
work day.
      4.   Has a blood alcohol content of 0.04 percent or more during working
hours, based on test results.
      5.   Works or reports to work under the influence of alcohol, drugs and/
or controlled substances or when his or her ability to perform is impaired by
alcohol, drugs, and/or controlled substances. A positive urine test evidenced
by impairment during working hours shall establish impairment.
      6.   Refuses to participate in or fails to successfully complete any drug
and/or alcohol rehabilitation, counseling or treatment program required of the
employee under this policy.
      7.   Fails a drug or alcohol test, or a combination thereof for a second
time under this policy.
      8.   Participates in the manufacture, dispensation, sale, possession, use
and/or distribution of illegal drugs or controlled substances, while off-duty,
where:
         (a) The employee's conduct adversely affects the Village's reputation;
         (b) The employee possessed sufficient quantities for sale; or
         (c) The employee has been convicted of its sale.
      9.   Failure to cooperate in any investigation of any rule violation.
   (K)   Questions: Any questions regarding the enforcement or interpretation
of the Village's drug and alcohol control testing policy should be directed to
the Director of Personnel. The Director of Personnel is responsible for the
administration of this policy.
         ACKNOWLEDGMENT
I,                               , acknowledge receipt of the Village's Drug
and Alcohol Control Testing Policy, and that the Village has provided me
adequate opportunity to read this policy, and to ask any questions I may have
had with respect to the policy. Additionally, the Village has provided me
adequate answers to all questions I have asked concerning the policy.
Date      Employee Signature
Date      Witness
(Ord. 1995-03, 6-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2018-14, 6-7-2018)
1-18-3: ILLINOIS PAID LEAVE FOR ALL WORKERS ACT:
   A.   The Village hereby adopts its current paid leave policy for all Village
employees as set forth in the Village's Code of Ordinances, Employee Handbook,
annual salary ordinances and appropriations, any collective bargaining
agreements to which the Village is a party and all other binding legislative
actions governing paid leave adopted by the President and Board of trustees of
the Village of River Grove, Cook County, Illinois, as the same may be amended
from time to time. However, in no event shall the Village, as an employer,
provide less than one (1) day of paid leave per year to any Village employee.
   B.   Pursuant to the Village's home rule authority, the Village hereby
declares that the Village, as an employer, is exempt from the requirements of
the Paid Leave for All Workers Act (820 ILCS 192/1 et seq.). The Village, as an
employer, shall have no additional obligations with regard to mandatory paid
leave, including, without limitation, any obligations provided under the Act,
except those obligations required by federal and/or state law which validly
preempt the Village's home rule authority.
(Ord. 2023-26, 11-16-2023)
CHAPTER 19
DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
1-19-1: Director Of Economic Development
1-19-1: DIRECTOR OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   Creation; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of the
director of economic development. The office of the director of economic
development is to be filled by appointment by the president, and is hereby
deemed to be an executive, nonclassified position of employment within the
village. (Ord. 1997-15, 11-6-1997)
   (B)   Duties: Said office's primary responsibility shall be to further the
economic goals and objectives of the village. The director of economic
development shall also serve as the village planning and zoning administrator,
as set forth in section
6-2-5 of this code, and such other duties as are assigned to said office by the
president or board of trustees. (Ord. 2011-13, 4-21-2011)
   (C)   Compensation: The compensation of said office shall be as is
determined by the board of trustees each fiscal year. (Ord. 1997-15, 11-6-1997)
CHAPTER 20
CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
1-20-1: Purpose
1-20-2: Creation
1-20-3: Administrative Composition
1-20-4: Procedure
1-20-5: Service
1-20-6: Administrative Hearings
1-20-7: Notices
1-20-8: Final Determination Of Liability
1-20-9: Judicial Review
1-20-10: Enforcement Of Judgment
1-20-11: Schedule Of Fines/Penalties
1-20-12: Immobilization/Towing And Impoundment Of Motor Vehicles
1-20-13: Request For Hearing After Notice Of Towing And Impoundment
1-20-14: Notice Affixed To Vehicle In Cases Of Immobilization
1-20-15: Towing Of Immobilized Vehicle
1-20-16: Postimpoundment Notice
1-20-17: Hearing In Case Of Vehicle Immobilization Or Impoundment
1-20-18: Fine For Immobilization Or Impoundment
1-20-19: Towing Service
1-20-1: PURPOSE:
The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide for the fair and efficient
enforcement of village ordinances as may be permitted by law and directed by
ordinance through an administrative adjudication of violations of such
ordinances and establishing a schedule of fines and penalties and the authority
and procedures for the amount and collection of fines and penalties. (Ord.
2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-2: CREATION:
There is hereby established an administrative department to be known as the
River Grove code hearing department which shall have the power to enforce
compliance with all municipal ordinances as from time to time are enacted by
the corporate authorities, except for any offense under the Illinois vehicle
code or similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of
motor vehicles and except for any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the
Illinois vehicle code. The establishment of this department does not preclude
the corporate authorities from using any other method to enforce the ordinances
of the village of River Grove. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-3: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The River Grove code hearing department shall be composed of a hearing officer,
an ordinance enforcement administrator, system coordinator/computer operator,
and hearing room security personnel with the power and authority as hereinafter
set forth:
   (A)   1. The hearing officer shall preside over all adjudication hearings
and shall have the following powers and duties:
         (a) Hearing and receiving testimony and evidence that is relevant to
the alleged code violation;
         (b) Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at a hearing upon the request of a party or a representative of a
party;
         (c) Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
         (d) Issuing and signing a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists; and
         (e) Imposing penalties consistent with applicable code provisions, and
assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation, except
however, that in no event shall the hearing officer have authority to impose a
penalty of incarceration or any other penalty in excess of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) or such other amount as allowed by law.
      2.   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings, the
hearing officer shall have successfully completed a formal training program
that includes the following:
         (a) Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings.
         (b) Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that will
be adjudicated.
         (c) Observations of administrative hearings.
         (d) Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
         (e) Additionally, a hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state of Illinois for a minimum period of three (3) years.
   (B)   Ordinance enforcement administrator is authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of the
village ordinance violation as may be permitted by law and directed by
ordinance.
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required under
this chapter or as may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this
chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of liability.
      4.   Certify copies of final determination of an ordinance violation
adjudicated.
      5.   Pursuant to this chapter and any reports verifying the final
determination of any violation liability that was issued in accordance with
this chapter, the laws of the state of Illinois, including 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3.
      6.   Certify reports to the secretary of state concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with this chapter as hereinafter
set forth and those of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
      7.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
      8.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection
agencies and the pursuit of all postjudgment remedies available by law.
   (C)   System coordinator/computer operator is hereby authorized and directed
to operate and maintain the computer programs for the administrative
adjudication system of the River Grove hearing department hereby created on a
day by day basis, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information.
      2.   Establishing court dates and notice dates.
      3.   Record fines, penalty assessments and payments.
      4.   Issue payment receipts.
      5.   Issue succeeding notice of hearing dates and/or final determination
of liability; issue notice of immobilization; issue notice of impending
impoundment; issue notice of impending driver's license suspension as directed
by the ordinance enforcement administrator in accordance with the provisions
hereof.
      6.   Keep accurate records of appearances, and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, sanctions imposed, if any, fines and
penalties assessed and paid.
   (D)   Hearing room security personnel shall be qualified full time, part
time or auxiliary police officers who are authorized and directed to:
      1.   Maintain hearing room decorum.
      2.   Have and execute authority as is granted to courtroom deputies of
the circuit court.
      3.   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the hearing officer or the ordinance enforcement administrator.
(Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-4: PROCEDURE:
The system of administrative adjudication of any village ordinance violation
authorized to be adjudicated hereunder shall be in accordance with the
following procedures:
   (A)   Violation notice of any ordinance violation including violations of
the village traffic code shall be issued by persons authorized hereunder and
shall contain information, be certified and will constitute prima facie
evidence of the violation cited as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   All full time, part time, and auxiliary police officers and other
specifically authorized individuals shall have authority to issue violation
notices.
   (C)   Any individual authorized hereby to issue violation notices and who
detects an ordinance violation is authorized to issue notice of violation
thereof and shall make service as hereinafter set forth.
   (D)   The notice of violation shall minimally contain the following
information:
      1.   The name of the party violating the ordinance, if known.
      2.   The time, date and place of the violation and the date of the
issuance.
      3.   The ordinance violated.
      4.   If a vehicle violation, the make and state registration number.
      5.   The fine and penalty that may be assessed and late payment penalty.
      6.   The signature and identification number of department of the issuer.
      7.   The date, time and location of the adjudication hearing and the
legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is held. (Ord. 2014-
04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-5: SERVICE:
   (A)   The party issuing the violation notice shall make service as hereafter
set forth:
      1.   For a violation of the village traffic code:
         (a) Affix the original or a copy of the notice to the vehicle.
         (b) Hand deliver the notice to the registered owner.
         (c) Hand deliver the notice to any person above the age of twelve (12)
years of age at the residence of the vehicle owner.
      2.   For any ordinance violation other than a traffic code violation:
         (a) Hand deliver the notice to the person responsible for the
ordinance violation.
         (b) Hand deliver the notice to any person twelve (12) years of age or
older at the residence of the responsible party.
         (c) Mailing notice by certified mail, return receipt requested,
postage prepaid, to the mailing address of the responsible party.
         (d) Posting the notice upon the property where the violation is found
if the alleged violator is a person or property manager.
   (B)   The person issuing the notice of violation shall verify the
correctness of the facts contained in the notice by:
      1.   Signing his/her name on the notice and the time of the issuance.
      2.   If the notice is produced by a computer, by the signing of a single
certificate to be kept by the ordinance enforcement administrator attesting to
the correctness of all notices produced by the computer under his/her control.
   (C)   The original notice or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be
retained by the ordinance enforcement administrator in the ordinary course of
business.
   (D)   Any notice violation issued, signed and served in accordance herewith,
or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie
evidence of the correctness of the facts set forth on the notice. (Ord. 2014-
04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   (A)   An administrative hearing to adjudicate any alleged ordinance
violation on its merits or to contest the validity of the notice of impending
immobilization, impending impoundment, or the validity of a notice of impending
driver's license suspension shall be granted to the registered owner or
operator of the cited vehicle pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
208.3 or the lessee of the cited vehicle pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1306, incorporated herein by reference, at a date, time and place
as set by the ordinance enforcement administrator and served upon the
registered owner, operator or lessee for hearings contesting the aforesaid
notices.
   (B)   All administrative hearings shall be recorded and shall culminate in a
determination of liability or nonliability made by the hearing officer.
   (C)   The hearing officer shall consider facts and/or testimony without the
application of formal or technical rules of evidence. However, the evidence,
including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon
by a reasonably prudent person in the conduct of his/her affairs.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall upon a determination of liability assess
fines and penalties in accordance with section
1-20-10 of this chapter.
   (E)   Persons appearing to contest the alleged violation on its merits may
be represented by counsel at their own expense. The burden of proof shall be on
the alleged defender to refute the prima facie case set forth in the verified
notice of violation. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-7: NOTICES:
   (A)   Upon failure of the person receiving a notice of a violation of the
village ordinance, other than a village traffic code violation, to appear at
the place, time and date designated for a hearing or in the case of a notice of
a violation of the village traffic code, the registered owner, operator, or
lessee of the cited vehicle to pay the fine, in full, as stated in the notice,
the ordinance enforcement administrator shall send or cause to be sent by first
class mail, postage prepaid to the address of the person who received the
notice of violation; in the case of the violation of the village traffic code,
the notice shall be sent, by first class mail, postage prepaid to the owner or
operator of the cited vehicle at the address as is recorded with the secretary
of state or if a lessee, at the address last known to the lessor of the cited
vehicle at the time that the lease agreement was made. Service of the notice
sent in accordance herewith shall be effective as of the date of deposit in the
United States mail.
   (B)   The notices sent in accordance herewith shall be in the following
sequence and shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   Upon the failure of the person or entity to whom the notice is sent
of an ordinance violation, or if a village traffic code violation, the
registered owner, operator or lessee of the cited vehicle to pay the fine in
full as stated in the aforesaid notice, a notice shall be sent as hereinbefore
set forth and shall minimally contain the following information:
         (a) Date, time and location of the violation cited in the violation
notice.
         (b) The particular ordinance violated.
         (c) Vehicle make and state registration number, if applicable.
         (d) Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
         (e) A statement entitled "notice of hearing" that clearly sets forth
that the person or entity receiving the notice of ordinance violation or, if a
village traffic code violation, the owner, operator or lessee, may appear at
the administrative hearing to contest the validity or merits of the alleged
violation on the date, time and place as specified in the notice.
         (f) A statement that the failure either to pay the fine and any
applicable penalty or to appear at the hearing, as set forth above, will result
in a final determination of liability for the cited violation in the amount of
the fine and penalty indicated.
         (g) A statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
liability for the violation and the failure to exhaust available administrative
remedies or the failure to exhaust available administrative or judicial
procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a debt due
and owing to the village. However, in a case where the alleged violation is
that of the village traffic code, the alleged violator shall be given no less
than three (3) opportunities to be heard and the failure to appear shall then
result in a final determination of liability.
   (C)   A notice of final determination of liability shall be sent following
the conclusion of the administrative hearing, as herein set forth and shall
contain, but not be limited to, the following information and warnings:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing to the village.
      2.   A statement of any sanction ordered or costs imposed which costs are
debts due and owing to the village.
      3.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
to the village within the time specified may result in proceeding with
collection procedures in the same manner as a judgment entered by any court of
competent jurisdiction.
      4.   A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
      5.   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located within
the village may be immobilized and impounded for failure to pay fines and
penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or parking violations.
      6.   Any other warning of possible impoundment as permitted by state law
or ordinance.
   (D)   A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license shall
be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine or
penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations containing the following:
      1.   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine and/or
penalty owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will result
in the village notifying the secretary of state that the person is eligible for
the initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/6-306.5.
      2.   The notice of the impending driver's license suspension shall be
sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
secretary of state. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-8: FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A final determination of liability shall occur following the failure to pay the
fine and/or penalty after the hearing officer's determination of liability and
the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust any review procedures herein set
forth. Where a person fails to appear at the administrative hearing to contest
the alleged violation on the date, time and place specified in a prior served
or mailed notice pursuant to section
1-20-7 of this chapter, the hearing officer's determination of liability shall
become final either upon a denial of a timely petition to set aside that
determination or upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition
without it being made. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-9: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision of a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
under the Illinois administrative review act. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-10: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
The following rules shall apply in the enforcement of any judgment obtained by
the village pursuant to this chapter:
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine
remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust judicial review
procedures under the Illinois administrative review act are a debt due and
owing to the village and may be collected in compliance with any applicable
law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period in which the judicial review under the
Illinois administrative review act may be sought as a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In any case in which a hearing officer finds that a defendant/
respondent has failed to comply with a judgment ordering a defendant to correct
a code violation or imposing any fine or other sanction as a result of a code
violation, any expenses incurred by the village to enforce the judgment,
including, but not limited to, attorney fees and court costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure after being fixed by the hearing officer,
shall be a debt due and owing to the village and may be collected in accordance
with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer
pursuant to this subsection, the village shall provide notice to the defendant/
respondent that states that the defendant/respondent shall appear at a hearing
before the hearing officer to determine whether the defendant/respondent has
failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set forth the date, time
and place of the hearing which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the
date of the notice being served. If service is by first class mail, postage
prepaid, the seven (7) day period shall commence on the date that the notice
was deposited in the mail.
   (D)   A lien shall be imposed on the real estate, personal estate or both of
the defendant/respondent in the amount of any debt due and owing to the
village. The lien may be recorded and enforced in the same manner as a judgment
lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. No lien may
be enforced under this section until it has been recorded in the manner
provided by article XII of the code of civil procedure or by the uniform
commercial code.
A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and set a new
hearing date upon a petition being filed within twenty one (21) days after the
issuance of the order of default if the hearing officer determines that the
petitioner's failure to appear at the scheduled hearing was for good cause or
at any time if the petitioner establishes that the village did not provide
proper service of the notice. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-11: SCHEDULE OF FINES/PENALTIES:
Fines and penalties shall be imposed as follows:
   (A)   For a violation of any village ordinance other than a violation of the
village traffic code, the fines and penalties imposed shall be as provided in
the penalty title of this code and shall include the assessment of costs upon a
finding of liability as to the code violation charged. However, in no event
shall the hearing officer have authority to: 1) impose a penalty of
incarceration or 2) impose a fine in excess of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). The monetary fines shall be exclusive of any cost of enforcement
or the costs imposed to secure the compliance with this code but shall not be
applicable in cases to enforce the payment of any tax imposed by the village.
   (B)   The fines and penalties imposed for a violation of vehicular standing
or parking regulations shall be as follows:
 
Minimum Fine Schedule               General Amount Parking Handicapped Parking
Step 1: Upon service of a violation
notice and paid within 15 days and  $50.00         $50.00  $250.00
no request for hearing is timely
filed, amount is:
Step 2: Failing to pay the fine
within the 15 days, if paid after   75.00          75.00   500.00
the deadline date and prior to the
first hearing date, the fine is:
Step 3: Failing to pay as provided
above and prior to the second
hearing date, if paid at second     100.00         100.00  500.00
hearing date or prior to the third
hearing date, the fine is:
Step 4: Failing to pay as provided
above and prior to or at the third  125.00         125.00  500.00
hearing date, the fine is:
Step 5: Failing to pay as provided
above and a finding of liability or 150.00         150.00  250.00
default, the fine is:
 
 
Minimum Fine Schedule                                               Compliance
Step 1: Upon service of a violation notice and paid within 10 days  $75.00
and no request for hearing is timely filed, amount is:
Step 2: Failing to pay the fine within the 10 days, if paid after
the deadline date and prior to the first hearing date or 30 days,   150.00
whichever is more, the fine is:
Step 3: Failing to pay as provided above and prior to the second
hearing date, if paid at second hearing date or prior to the third  175.00
hearing date, the fine is:
Step 4: Failing to pay as provided above and prior to or at the     200.00
third hearing date, the fine is:
Step 5: Failing to pay as provided above and a finding of liability 75.00
or default, the fine is:
 
(Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-12: IMMOBILIZATION/TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle whose registered owner has been determined to be
liable for five (5) or more vehicular standing or parking regulations for which
the fines or penalties assessed remain unpaid may be immobilized, booted or
towed and impounded if:
      1.   The ordinance enforcement administrator has determined that a person
has been determined liable for five (5) or more ordinance violations for which
the fines and/or penalties remain unpaid.
      2.   The person determined to be liable for the five (5) or more
violations is the registered owner of a motor vehicle located within the
village's geographical boundaries.
      3.   A seizure notice has been sent to the registered owner of the motor
vehicle located within the geographical boundaries of the village that
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   That a final determination has been made on five (5) or more
ordinance violations for which the fines remain unpaid.
         (b)   A listing of the violations that the person has been determined
to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            (1) The ordinance violation notice and number;
            (2) Date of issuance; and
            (3) Total amount of fines and penalties assessed.
         (c) That the motor vehicle(s), owned by the person, located within the
village are subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the
fines and penalties are not paid within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
notice, which shall include:
            (1) Date of immobilization.
            (2) Date of impending towing and impoundment.
            (3) That the registered owner may contest the validity of the
notice by appearing, in person, before the ordinance enforcement administrator
within fifteen (15) days of the date of notice and submitting evidence that
conclusively disproves liability. By way of example:
               A.That the registered owner was not the owner or lessee of the
vehicle on the date(s) that the notices were issued.
               B.That the fines or penalties for the violation(s) cited were
paid in full.
               C.That the registered owner has not accumulated five (5) or more
ordinance violations that are unpaid, not timely adjudicated, or for which no
appearance was made.
      4.   The registered owner of the motor vehicle to whom notice is sent has
failed to make payment of fines and penalties as specified in the notice and
has failed to appear with evidence to conclusively disprove liability before
the ordinance enforcement administrator to contest the validity of the notice.
(Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-32, 11-7-2019)
1-20-13: REQUEST FOR HEARING AFTER NOTICE OF TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Upon receipt of the request for a hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and/or impoundment, the ordinance enforcement
administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and/or impoundment on the next scheduled
hearing date, but no later than thirty (30) days after the request for hearing
is filed. Notice to the registered owner of the hearing date shall be made by
first class mail, postage prepaid, at the address set forth on the request for
hearing. Service of the notice shall be complete on the date that it is placed
in the United States mail. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-14: NOTICE AFFIXED TO VEHICLE IN CASES OF IMMOBILIZATION:
Upon immobilization of an eligible vehicle, a notice shall be affixed to the
vehicle in a conspicuous place. Such notice shall warn that the vehicle is
immobilized and that any attempt to move the vehicle may result in damage. The
notice shall also state that the unauthorized removal or damage to the
immobilizing restraint is a violation of sections 16-1 and 21-1 of the Illinois
criminal code. The notice shall also provide the following information
specifying that a release of the immobilizing restraint may be had by:
   (A)   Paying all fines and penalties, if any, on the outstanding complaints
for which the notice has been sent prior to the date of immobilization; or
   (B)   Completing appearance forms on all outstanding parking violation
complaints for which notice had been sent prior to the date of immobilization
and depositing collateral in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the total
fines for the outstanding violation complaints or five hundred dollars
($500.00), whichever is less. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-15: TOWING OF IMMOBILIZED VEHICLE:
Except where the vehicle is otherwise subject to towing, if the immobilizing
restraint has not been released as hereinbefore provided, within seventy two
(72) hours of its placement, the vehicle shall be towed and impounded. (Ord.
2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-16: POSTIMPOUNDMENT NOTICE:
Within ten (10) days after a vehicle has been impounded, a notice of
impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
registered owner of the vehicle. The notice shall state that the owner has the
right to a postimmobilization and posttowing hearing after the posting of
collateral. The notice shall further state that if the vehicle is not claimed
within thirty (30) days of the notice, the vehicle may be sold or otherwise
disposed of in accordance with the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-
2014)
1-20-17: HEARING IN CASE OF VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION OR IMPOUNDMENT:
The owner of an immobilized or impounded vehicle or other interested person
shall have a right to a hearing to determine whether the immobilization or
subsequent towing and/or impoundment was erroneous or whether the vehicle was
improperly included on the towing list. If the owner files a written demand for
a hearing before the ordinance enforcement administrator within fourteen (14)
days after the issuance of the notice as specified in section
1-20-16 of this chapter or within fourteen (14) days of the immobilization,
whichever is later, a hearing shall be conducted on any business day within
seven (7) days of the receipt of the written demand for hearing unless
otherwise mutually agreed by each of the parties. Failure to request a hearing
or the failure to appear at a scheduled hearing shall be deemed a waiver of a
right to a hearing. In the event of such failure, any amount deposited as
collateral shall be forfeited. A hearing provided by this section shall not
determine the validity of or otherwise adjudicate any citation or notice of an
ordinance violation issued relative to the immobilized or impounded vehicle,
but shall only relate to whether the vehicle was properly immobilized or
impounded and/or towed by determining whether the owner previously submitted
evidence required by section
1-20-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-18: FINE FOR IMMOBILIZATION OR IMPOUNDMENT:
The fine for immobilization shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the
fine for impoundment and towing shall be an amount not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Additionally, the owner of the vehicle shall also be liable
for storage and towing fees, in accordance with locally accepted standards,
should the vehicle be removed to a private storage facility. If, upon hearing,
it is determined that the immobilization or tow was erroneous, no fees shall be
assessed. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
1-20-19: TOWING SERVICE:
The ordinance enforcement administrator is hereby empowered to retain the
services of an agency or company to tow and impound vehicles, provided that the
agency or company is fully insured and licensed in accordance with local or
state law(s) and has a secured impound area within which to retain vehicles
impounded hereunder. For the purpose of this section, a "secured area" shall
mean an area bounded by a fence, chainlink or otherwise, of a sufficient height
and with locking gates so as to minimize or prevent unauthorized entry into the
area. (Ord. 2014-04, 4-17-2014)
CHAPTER 21
TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
SECTION:
1-21-1: Title
1-21-2: Definitions
1-21-3: Notices
1-21-4: Late Payment
1-21-5: Application Of Payment
1-21-6: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-21-7: Audit Procedure
1-21-8: Appeal
1-21-9: Hearing
1-21-10: Interest And Penalties
1-21-11: Abatement
1-21-12: Installment Contracts
1-21-13: Statute Of Limitations
1-21-14: Voluntary Disclosure
1-21-15: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-21-16: Internal Review Procedure
1-21-17: Application
1-21-18: Severability
1-21-19: Effective Date
1-21-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND
OBLIGATIONS ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words or terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The president and board of trustees of the village of
River Grove.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village's finance officer, who is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, or
authorized designee. The local tax administrator shall have the authority to
implement the terms of this chapter to give it full effect. The exercise of
such authority by the administrator shall be subject to the approval of the
corporate authorities and not inconsistent with this chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX (TAX): Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected and administered by the village not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the property tax code or fees collected by the village other than
infrastructure maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each tax of the village.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes a tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person or entity required to pay any locally imposed and
administered tax and generally includes the person or entity upon whom/which
the legal incidence of such tax is placed and with respect to consumer taxes,
includes the business or entity required to collect and pay such tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of River Grove. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-3: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, notice is
to be in writing, mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the day
fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local tax
administrator. The local tax administrator shall send the notice as follows:
   (A)   First class, certified or registered, express mail, or overnight mail,
prepaid and addressed to the persons or entities concerned, at their last known
address.
   (B)   Personal delivery. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-4: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-5: APPLICATION OF PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for any tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third for the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-6: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   (A)   The village shall not credit or refund any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for refund shall be not more
than four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of a locally
imposed and administered tax, interest or penalties to a person who has not
paid the amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of taxes, interest or
penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit of refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a) The name of the tax subject to the claim.
         (b) The tax period for the tax subject to the claim.
         (c) The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment.
         (d) The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or revised
tax return, in connection with the claim.
         (e) A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of the tax, interest and penalties overpaid.
There shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any money to the village.
      2.   Within fourteen (14) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim hereunder, said administrator shall either grant the
claim or deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as to
the reason for such denial.
      3.   In the event that the local tax administrator grants, in whole or
part, a claim, the amount of the grant shall bear interest at the rate of five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of
the mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-
2000)
1-21-7: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any tax shall comply with the notice
requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information: the tax;
the time period of the audit; and a brief description of the books and records
to be made available to the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours. If the date
and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be mutually agreed within not to exceed
thirty (30) days of the original date.
   (C)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make its books
and records available for inspection by the village. Upon a failure to provide
documents necessary for audit, within the time required, said administrator may
issue a tax determination and assessment based on the administrator's
determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's liability.
   (D)   If an audit determines that there has been an overpayment of a tax,
written notice of the amount of such overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer
within thirty (30) days of such determination. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-8: APPEAL:
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the issuance of a notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial or a notice of
claim reduction regarding any tax. Such notice shall contain the following
information: the reason for the assessment; the amount of the tax liability
proposed; the appeals procedure; and the obligations of the village during the
audit, appeal, refund and collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer receiving a notice as aforesaid may file with the
administrator, within forty five (45) days of the receipt thereof, a written
protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the basis of the request for a
hearing.
   (C)   If a timely protest and petition is filed, a hearing shall be
scheduled within fourteen (14) days after receipt thereof, and written notice
given to the taxpayer. The hearing may be rescheduled by mutual agreement.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
time set herein, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a
final bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and full payment
of the contested liability along with interest accrued as of the due date of
the tax, the administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written
protest and petition for hearing for a period of not to exceed ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-
2000)
1-21-9: HEARING:
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall conduct all hearings provided for
herein.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
   (C)   The local tax administrator shall preside and hear testimony and
accept any relevant evidence. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the administrator shall make a
written determination on the basis of the evidence presented. The taxpayer or
collector shall be provided with a copy of the decision. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-
2000)
1-21-10: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event that a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest to be assessed on late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of
the tax is seven percent (7%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty
five (365) days, and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided by
the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty of five percent (5%) of
the amount of the tax to be shown on the due return shall be imposed; and a
late payment penalty of five percent (5%) of the tax due shall be imposed. If a
return is not filed in the time and manner required prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed of twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-11: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if it is
determined that reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-12: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered into unless
the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
administrator that a payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the taxpayer shall
have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the delinquency is
not cured within said period or the taxpayer fails to demonstrate good faith in
restructuring the installment contract, said contract shall be canceled without
further notice. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-13: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving said notice
to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or in which the return for the applicable period
was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations will be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was due or in which
the return for the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-14: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any tax for which a taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit,
investigation or assessment from the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to file an application with the administrator for voluntary disclosure
of the tax due. A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree
to pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per
month, for all periods prior to the filing of the application, but not more
than four (4) years before the date of filing the application. A taxpayer
filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not be liable for any
additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the date the
application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and
underpaid the amount of the tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the administrator.
However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and
interest previously paid under this section must be paid within ninety (90)
days after a final determination and exhaustion of all appeals of the
additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the administrator, whichever is
longer. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-15: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published as required by law.
The posting of a tax ordinance on the internet shall satisfy the publication
requirements. Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the
public upon request at the village clerk's office. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-16: INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the administrator that the lien is valid, the lien shall
remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be improper, the
administrator shall: timely remove the lien at village expense; correct the
taxpayer's credit record; correct any public disclosure of the improperly
imposed lien. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-17: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-18: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such decision shall not affect any of
the remaining provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
1-21-19: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be published in pamphlet form as of the date of its passage
and approval and shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days thereafter.
(Ord. 2000-23, 12-21-2000)
CHAPTER 22
ETHICS CODE
SECTION:
1-22-1: Title
1-22-2: Definitions
1-22-3: Prohibited Political Activities
1-22-4: Gift Ban, Exceptions, And Disposition Of Gifts
1-22-5: Ethics Advisor
1-22-6: Ethics Commission
1-22-7: Penalties
1-22-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ETHICS CODE OF THE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
OF THE VILLAGE OF RIVER GROVE. (Ord. 2004-13, 5-6-2004)
1-22-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the Illinois election code, 10
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 315/
3.
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the Illinois election code, 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-1.4.
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village, whether on a full time or part time
basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction and
control of the village with regard to the material details of how the work is
to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of River Grove.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: A period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the Illinois election code, 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-3,
but only with regard to those activities that require filing with the state
board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: (A) Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   (B)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   (C)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   (D)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   (E)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   (F)   Assisting at the polls on an election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   (G)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   (H)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   (I)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   (J)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   (K)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   (L)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   (M)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   (N)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   (O)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   (A)   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   (B)   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   (C)   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   (D)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 2004-
13, 5-6-2004)
1-22-3: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
In accordance with article 5 of the state officials and employees ethics act,
the following political activities are prohibited:
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2004-13, 5-6-
2004)
1-22-4: GIFT BAN, EXCEPTIONS, AND DISPOSITION OF GIFTS:
   (A)   Gift Ban: Except as permitted by article 10 of the state officials and
employees ethics act and this section, no officer or employee, and no spouse of
or immediate family member living with any officer or employee (collectively
referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any
gift from any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise
prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer
or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   Exceptions: Subsection (A) of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services which are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under and in accordance
with the Illinois election code or b) activities associated with a fundraising
event in support of a political organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this subsection, "catered" means
food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by
any means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 2004-13, 5-6-2004)
1-22-5: ETHICS ADVISOR:
Pursuant to article 15 of the state officials and employees ethics act, the
president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees shall designate
an ethics advisor for the village. The duties of the ethics advisor are hereby
delegated to corporation counsel of the village unless the position is created
as an office by the corporate authorities of the village of River Grove. The
ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees of the
village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall perform such other
duties as may be delegated by the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 2004-
13, 5-6-2004)
1-22-6: ETHICS COMMISSION:
Pursuant to article 20 of the state officials and employees ethics act, there
is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics commission of the
village of River Grove. The commission shall be comprised of three (3) members
appointed by the president with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. No person shall be appointed as a member of the commission who is
related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to
any elected officer of the village. The ethics commission shall be organized
and operated in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Organizational Meeting And Terms Of Office: At the first meeting of
the commission, the initial appointees shall draw lots to determine their
initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve two (2) year terms, and the
third commissioner shall serve a one year term. Thereafter, all commissioners
shall be appointed to two (2) year terms. Commissioners may be reappointed to
serve subsequent terms. At the first meeting of the commission, the
commissioners shall choose a chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be
held at the call of the chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum
shall consist of two (2) commissioners, and official action by the commission
shall require the affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   (B)   Removal From Office: The president, with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees, may remove a commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect
of duty or malfeasance in office after service on the commissioner by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice. Vacancies shall be filled in
the same manner as original appointments.
   (C)   Powers And Duties: The commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with subsection
1-22-7(C) of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-22-3 or
1-22-4 of this chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village of River Grove to cooperate with the
commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
   (D)   Complaints, Hearings, And Commission's Recommendation:
      1.   Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the ethics commission.
      2.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      3.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint. If the complaint
is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-22-4 of this chapter (article 10 of the state officials and employees ethics
act) and there is a determination of probable cause, then the commission's
notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled within four (4)
weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the commission may elect to
notify in writing corporation counsel, the attorney hereby designated by the
corporate authorities, to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint
be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege
a violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public. If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-22-3 of this chapter (article 5 of the state officials and employees ethics
act), then the commission shall notify in writing corporation counsel, the
attorney hereby designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such
actions, and shall transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional
documents in the custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.
      4.   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the
complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
open meetings act.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: a) dismiss the complaint or
b) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
president, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular findings
in the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a
matter of public information.
      6.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the president or impose a fine upon the violator, or
both.
      7.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the
date of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission
shall render its decision as required under subsection (D)5 of this section
within seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7)
days preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before
the date of that election, if possible.
      8.   The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-22-4 of this chapter (article 10 of the state officials and employees ethics
act) in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not
more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission may fine any person
who knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a violation of this chapter
in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more
than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission may recommend any
appropriate discipline up to and including discharge.
      9.   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter or the state
officials and employees ethics act must be filed within one year after the
alleged violation. (Ord. 2004-13, 5-6-2004)
1-22-7: PENALTIES:
Pursuant and under the authority of article 25 of the state officials and
employees ethics act, the following penalties shall apply to violations of this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-22-3 of this chapter (article 5 of the state officials and employees ethics
act) may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty four
(364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   (B)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-22-4 of this chapter (article 10 of the state officials and employees ethics
act) is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one thousand one
dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   (C)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   (D)   A violation of section
1-22-3 of this chapter (article 5 of the state officials and employees ethics
act) shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney for the village
of River Grove by filing in the circuit court of Cook County, Illinois, an
information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall
be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall
require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable
doubt. A violation of section
1-22-4 of this chapter (article 10 of the state officials and employees ethics
act) may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the
village of River Grove, or by the ethics commission through the designated
administrative procedure.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any of the
provisions of section
1-22-3 or
1-22-4 of this chapter (article 5 or article 10 of the state officials and
employees ethics act) is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 2004-13, 5-
6-2004)
CHAPTER 23
VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-23-1: Community Information Liaison
1-23-2: Assistant Director Of Recreation
1-23-3: Projects Coordinator
1-23-1: COMMUNITY INFORMATION LIAISON:
There is hereby established the position of community information liaison
within the administrative department. This position shall be filled by
appointment by the president with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. The community information liaison shall be a resident of the village
of River Grove, and shall receive the compensation as shall be fixed from time
to time by the president and board of trustees. The term of office for the
community information liaison shall be one year or until his or her successor
is appointed and has qualified. In the event of a vacancy in office, the
president shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
a successor to serve for the unexpired term of office. The community
information liaison shall be responsible for coordinating, organizing and
administering the village's communications through its community events
calendar, newsletter, cable television, and website; shall serve as the village
liaison with the schools, churches, and other organizations within the village;
and perform such other services as are reasonably assigned by the president and
board of trustees. (Ord. 2006-14, 6-1-2006)
1-23-2: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF RECREATION:
There is hereby established the position of assistant director of recreation
within the recreation department, who shall be nominated by the director of
recreation and appointed by the president with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees. Said assistant director of recreation shall be a resident of
the village of River Grove, and shall receive the compensation as shall be
fixed from time to time by the president and board of trustees. The term of
office for the assistant director of recreation shall be one year or until his
or her successor is appointed and has qualified. In the event of a vacancy in
office, the president shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the board
of trustees, a successor to serve for the unexpired term of office. The
assistant director shall be responsible for organizing and administering the
recreation programs and services as are reasonably assigned by the director of
recreation and the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 2006-15, 6-1-2006)
1-23-3: PROJECTS COORDINATOR:
   (A)   Creation: There is hereby created the office of projects coordinator
who shall be appointed by the president with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees; and said position is deemed to be an executive,
nonclassified position of employment within the village and such employment
shall be at the pleasure of the president and board of trustees.
   (B)   Responsibilities And Duties: The projects coordinator ("PC") shall
have the following responsibilities and duties:
      1.   The PC shall serve as the conduit for effective communications
between the president, board of trustees, appropriate department heads and
staff, consultants, and vendors with the objective of implementing and
completing extraordinary projects as directed by the corporate authorities.
      2.   The PC shall consult and advise with all parties and entities whose
participation is essential to the objective of undertaking and successfully
completing said extraordinary projects.
      3.   The PC shall coordinate the various activities of these parties and
entities in a manner which results in a timely and efficient completion of any
extraordinary project.
      4.   The PC shall provide the corporate authorities with written reports
on the progress of any planned or pending extraordinary project prior to all
regular meetings of the board of trustees, and include therein, without
limitation, any recommendations as the PC deems necessary or advisable to
promote and assist in achieving the objective of the extraordinary project(s).
      5.   The PC shall prepare and present project budgets to the corporate
authorities for approval and thereafter first obtain the authorization of the
comptroller before incurring any expenses in accordance with any approved
project budget.
   (C)   Extraordinary Projects Defined: Extraordinary projects eligible for
assignment to the PC shall include, but not be limited to: 1) construction of
any municipal facility or improvement; 2) the remodeling or restoration of any
municipal facility or improvement; 3) infrastructure improvements or repairs;
and 4) such other projects which do not arise in the regular or ordinary
affairs of the village and which are assigned to the PC by the corporate
authorities.
   (D)   Compensation: The projects coordinator shall be a part time,
nonpensionable position, and shall be compensated at such rate as the board of
trustees determines each fiscal year.
   (E)   Limitation On Hours Worked: The projects coordinator shall not work
more than five hundred ninety nine (599) hours in any calendar year, and shall
include with the reports required under subsection (B)4 of this section a
summary of time spent on each project and a cumulative total number of hours.
(Ord. 2012-11, 7-19-2012)
CHAPTER 24
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION
SECTION:
1-24-1: Purpose
1-24-2: Scope
1-24-3: Definitions
1-24-4: Administration
1-24-5: Identity Theft Prevention Elements
1-24-6: Program Management And Accountability
1-24-7: Other Legal Requirements
1-24-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect customers of the municipality's
utility services from identity theft. The program is intended to establish
reasonable policies and procedures to facilitate the detection, prevention and
mitigation of identity theft in connection with the opening of new covered
accounts and activity on existing covered accounts. (Ord. 2008-23, 12-4-2008)
1-24-2: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to the creation, modification and access to identifying
information of a customer of one or more of the utilities operated by the
village and all employees. This chapter does not replace or repeal any
previously existing policies or programs addressing some or all of the
activities that are the subject of this chapter, but rather it is intended to
supplement any such existing policies and programs. (Ord. 2008-23, 12-4-2008)
1-24-3: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Terms Defined: When used in this chapter, the following terms have the
meanings set forth opposite their name, unless the context clearly requires
that the term be given a different meaning:
    COVERED ACCOUNT: An account that the municipality offers or maintains,
primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves or is
designed to permit multiple payments of transactions (16 CFR 681.2(b)(3)(i)). A
utility account is a "covered account". The term "covered account" also
includes other accounts offered or maintained by the municipality for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to the municipality or its customers
from identity theft (16 CFR 681.2(b)(3)(ii)).
   IDENTIFYING INFORMATION: Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including any name, social security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number.
Additional examples of "identifying information" are set forth in 16 CFR
section 603.2(a).
   IDENTITY THEFT: A fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
information of another person without authority (16 CFR sections 681.2(b)(8)
and 603.2(a)).
   MUNICIPALITY: The village of River Grove, Cook County, Illinois.
   PROGRAM: The policies and procedures set forth herein to detect, prevent and
mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of new covered accounts
and activity on existing covered accounts.
   RED FLAG: A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   (B)   Undefined Terms: Unless the context clearly indicates a contrary
intent, terms that are used, but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the
meanings given to them in the FTC's identity theft rules (16 CFR part 681) or
the fair credit reporting act of 1970 (15 USC section 1681 et seq.), as amended
by the fair and accurate credit transactions act of 2003 into law on December
4, 2003 (public law 108-159). (Ord. 2008-23, 12-4-2008)
1-24-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The initial adoption and approval of the identity theft prevention program
shall be by the corporate authorities of the municipality. Thereafter, changes
to the program of a day to day operational character and decisions relating to
the interpretation and implementation of the program may be made by the
comptroller who shall be the program administrator. Major revisions of this
policy shall be approved by the board of trustees.
Development, implementation, administration and oversight of the program will
be the responsibility of the program administrator. The program administrator
will report at least annually to the village board of trustees regarding
compliance with this chapter.
Issues to be addressed in the annual identity theft prevention report include:
   (A)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing the
risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of new covered accounts
and activity with respect to existing covered accounts.
   (B)   Service provider arrangements.
   (C)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management's
response.
   (D)   Recommendations for material changes to the program, if needed, for
improvement. (Ord. 2008-23, 12-4-2008)
1-24-5: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION ELEMENTS:
   (A)   Identification Of Relevant Red Flags: The municipality has considered
the guidelines and the illustrative examples of possible red flags from the
FTC's identity theft rules and has reviewed the municipality's past history
with instances of identity theft, if any. The municipality hereby determines
that, given the relative size of the municipality and the limited nature and
scope of the covered account services that the municipality provides to its
citizens, the following are the relevant red flags for purposes of this
chapter:
      1.   Alerts, Notifications, Or Other Warnings Received From Consumer
Reporting Agencies Or Service Providers:
         (a) A consumer reporting agency alerts the village of a credit freeze,
address disparity, or that an account has been noted to have abusive or
fraudulent activity.
      2.   The Presentation Of Suspicious Documents:
         (a) Documents provided for identification of the applicant or customer
do not appear to be genuine and unaltered.
         (b) The photograph or physical description on the identification
provided is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer.
         (c) Information given to open or transfer the account is not
consistent with the readily accessible identification information that is on
file with the municipality with respect to the applicant or customer.
      3.   The Presentation Of Suspicious Personal Identifying Information,
Such As A Suspicious Address Change:
         (a) Personal identifying information provided is of a type associated
with fraudulent activity. For example: 1) the address provided is fictitious, a
mailbox drop, or a prison; or 2) the phone number provided is invalid or is
associated with a pager or answering service.
         (b) Personal identifying information provided is associated with known
fraudulent activity.
         (c) Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent with
utility records.
         (d) The customer fails to provide all needed personal identifying
information upon request.
      4.   The Unusual Use Of, Or Other Suspicious Activity Related To, A
Covered Account:
         (a) The utility is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer's account.
         (b) Customer notifies utility that they are not receiving their bill.
         (c) Mail sent to a customer is repeatedly returned.
         (d) Payments are made in a manner associated with fraud. For example,
a deposit or initial payment is made and no payments are made thereafter.
      5.   Notice Of Possible Identity Theft:
         (a) The municipality is notified by a customer, a law enforcement
official or other persons that a fraudulent account has been opened for a
person engaged in identity theft.
   (B)   Detection Of Red Flags: The employees of the municipality that
interact directly with customers on a day to day basis shall have the initial
responsibility for monitoring the information and documentation provided by the
customer and any third party service provider in connection with the opening of
new accounts and the modification of or access to existing accounts, and the
detection of any red flags that might arise. Management shall see to it that
all employees who might be called upon to assist a customer with the opening of
a new account or with modifying or otherwise accessing an existing account are
properly trained such that they have a working familiarity with the relevant
red flags identified in this section so as to be able to recognize any red
flags that might surface in connection with the transaction.
An employee who is not sufficiently trained to recognize the red flags
identified in this section shall not open a new account for any customer,
modify any existing account or otherwise provide any customer with access to
information in an existing account without the direct supervision and specific
approval of a management employee. Management employees shall be properly
trained such that they can recognize the relevant red flags identified in this
section and exercise sound judgment in connection with the response to any
unresolved red flags that may present themselves in connection with the opening
of a new account or with modifying or accessing of an existing account.
Management employees shall be responsible for making the final decision on any
such unresolved red flags.
The program administrator shall, from time to time, establish or modify written
policies setting forth the manner in which a prospective new customer may apply
for utility service from the municipality, the information and documentation to
be provided by the prospective customer in connection with an application for a
new utility service account, the steps to be taken by the employee assisting
the customer with the application in verifying the customer's identity and the
manner in which the information and documentation provided by the customer and
any third party service provider shall be maintained. Such policy shall be
generally consistent with the spirit of the customer identification program
rules (31 CFR 103.121) implementing section 326(a) of the USA PATRIOT act but
need not be as detailed. The program administrator shall establish from time to
time a written policy setting forth the manner in which customers with existing
accounts shall establish their identity before being allowed to make
modifications to or otherwise gain access to existing accounts.
   (C)   Response To Detected Red Flags: If the responsible employees of the
municipality as set forth in the previous subsection are unable, after making a
good faith effort, to form a reasonable belief that they know the true identity
of a customer attempting to open a new account or to modify or otherwise access
an existing account based on the information and documentation provided by the
customer and any third party service provider, the municipality shall not open
the new account or modify or otherwise provide access to the existing account
as the case may be. Opening new accounts or the modification or access to
existing accounts will be on a nondiscriminatory basis based on the village's
policies.
Appropriate responses to prevent or mitigate identity theft when a red flag is
detected include:
      1.   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft.
      2.   Contacting the customer.
      3.   Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices
that permit access to a covered account.
      4.   Reopening a covered account with a new account number.
      5.   Not opening a new covered account.
      6.   Closing an existing covered account.
      7.   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a
covered account to a debt collector.
      8.   Notifying law enforcement.
      9.   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
The program administrator shall, from time to time, review the program and
incorporate additional guidance to address new or unresolved red flag
situations. The program administrator shall give consideration to aggravating
factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security
incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer's account, or a
notice that a customer has provided account information to a fraudulent
individual or website. (Ord. 2008-23, 12-4-2008)
1-24-6: PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY:
   (A)   Initial Risk Assessment; Covered Accounts: Utility accounts for
personal, family and household purposes are specifically included within the
definition of "covered account" in the FTC's identity theft rules. Therefore,
the municipality determines that with respect to its residential utility
accounts, it offers and/or maintains covered accounts. The municipality also
performed an initial risk assessment to determine whether the utility offers or
maintains any other accounts for which there are reasonably foreseeable risks
to customers or the utility from identity theft. In making this determination
the municipality considered: 1) the methods it uses to open its accounts, 2)
the methods it uses to access its accounts, and 3) its previous experience with
identity theft, and it concluded that it does not offer or maintain any such
other covered accounts.
   (B)   Program Updates; Risk Assessment: The program, including relevant red
flags, shall be reviewed by the program administrator at least once annually,
and updated as often as necessary, to reflect changes in risks to customers
from identity theft. Factors to consider in updating the program include:
      1.   An assessment of the risk factors identified above.
      2.   Any identified red flag weaknesses in associated account systems or
procedures.
      3.   Changes in methods of identity theft.
      4.   Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft.
      5.   Changes in business arrangements, including mergers, acquisitions,
alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.
   (C)   Training And Oversight: All staff and third party service providers
performing any activity in connection with one or more covered accounts are to
be provided appropriate training and receive effective oversight to ensure that
the activity is conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed
to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. (Ord. 2008-23, 12-
4-2008)
1-24-7: OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
Awareness of the following related legal requirements should be maintained:
   (A)   31 USC 5318(g): Reporting of suspicious activities.
   (B)   15 USC 1681c-1(h): Identity theft prevention; fraud alerts and active
duty alerts - limitations on use of information for credit extensions.
   (C)   15 USC 1681s-2: Responsibilities of furnishers of information to
consumer reporting agencies.
   (D)   15 USC 1681m: Requirements on use of consumer reports. (Ord. 2008-23,
12-4-2008)
CHAPTER 25
AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD
SECTION:
1-25-1: Findings
1-25-2: Program Specifications
1-25-3: Electrical Power Aggregation Plan Of Operation
1-25-1: FINDINGS:
The corporate authorities hereby find that it is in the best interest of the
village to operate the aggregation program under the Illinois power agency act,
chapter 20, Illinois Compiled Statutes, act 3855, section 1-92 entitled
aggregation of electrical load by municipalities and counties (hereinafter
referred to as the "act"); as an opt out program for residential and small
commercial retail customers, and to implement the program according to the
terms of the act. (Ord. 2012-07, 5-3-2012)
1-25-2: PROGRAM SPECIFICATIONS:
   (A)   The corporate authorities hereby are authorized to aggregate in
accordance with the terms of the act residential and small commercial retail
electrical loads located within the corporate limits of the village, and for
that purpose may solicit bids and enter into service agreements to facilitate
for those loads the sale and purchase of electricity and related services and
equipment.
   (B)   The corporate authorities are granted the authority to exercise such
authority jointly with any other municipality or county and, in combination
with two (2) or more municipalities or counties, may initiate a process jointly
to authorize aggregation by a majority vote of each particular municipality or
county as required by the act.
   (C)   The aggregation program for the village shall operate as an opt out
program for residential and small commercial retail customers.
   (D)   The aggregation program shall be approved by a majority of the members
of the corporate authority of the village.
   (E)   The corporate authorities with the assistance from the Illinois power
agency shall develop a plan of operation and governance for the aggregation
program and shall conduct such public hearings and provide such public notice
as is required under the act. The load aggregation plan shall provide for
universal access to all applicable residential customers and equitable
treatment of applicable residential customers; shall describe demand management
and energy efficiency services to be provided to each class of customers; and
shall meet any requirements established by law concerning aggregated service
offered pursuant to the act.
   (F)   As an opt out program, the corporate authorities shall fully inform
residential and small commercial retail customers in advance that they have the
right to opt out of the aggregation program. The disclosure and information
provided to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the act.
   (G)   The electric aggregation shall occur automatically for each person
owning, occupying, controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to
be aggregated in the corporate limits of the village, subject to a right to opt
out of the program as described under this chapter and the act.
   (H)   The corporate authorities hereby grant the comptroller or the
comptroller's designee, who shall be designated in writing, the specific
authority to execute a contract without further action by the corporate
authorities and with the authority to bind the village. (Ord. 2012-07, 5-3-
2012)
1-25-3: ELECTRICAL POWER AGGREGATION PLAN OF OPERATION:
The corporate authorities hereby adopt the electrical power aggregation plan of
operation and governance as set forth in exhibit A on file with the village and
made a part hereof as if fully set forth by this reference. (Ord. 2012-07, 5-3-
2012)
CHAPTER 26
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-26-1: Budget Policies
1-26-2: Revenue Policies
1-26-3: Expenditure Policies
1-26-4: Reserve Policies
1-26-5: Capital Improvements Policies
1-26-6: Debt Policies
1-26-7: Financial Reporting Policies
1-26-1: BUDGET POLICIES:
The following budget policies are hereby adopted and shall be followed in the
administration of the business of the village:
   (A)   The village will adopt and maintain a balanced budget in which
expenditures will not be allowed to exceed reasonably estimated revenues and
other available funds at the same time maintaining recommended fund balances.
   (B)   Budget preparation will be directed by specific goals and objectives
as developed by the president, board of trustees and departments.
   (C)   As part of the annual budget review process, the village comptroller
will project fund revenues and expenditures for two (2) years beyond the budget
year and the village board will compare the projected balances to prior
expectations, which will assist the village in identifying potential problems
and provide time to correct or address such problems.
   (D)   The proposed budget will be prepared in a manner maximizing
understanding by citizens and public officials, and copies will be made
available to all interested parties. A public hearing will be conducted prior
to approval of the budget.
   (E)   The village comptroller's office will prepare and maintain a system of
regular monthly reports comparing actual revenues and expenditures to budgeted
amounts for each department; and if any nonbudgeted expenditure is to be
undertaken, it must be offset with a corresponding increase in revenue or an
adjusted budgeted expense or a deferral of a budgeted expenditure.
   (F)   The board finance committee, with assistance from the village
comptroller's office, will produce a five (5) year revenue and expenditure
projection annually or as often as possible. (Ord. 2015-13, 10-1-2015)
1-26-2: REVENUE POLICIES:
The following revenue policies are hereby adopted and shall be followed in the
administration of the business of the village:
   (A)   The village shall endeavor to develop and maintain a diversified and
stable revenue base to shelter it from short term fluctuations in any one
revenue source and to minimize, to the extent possible, the burden on
individual taxpayers.
   (B)   The village comptroller's office will estimate annual revenues on an
objective, reasonable, and conservative basis, with most revenues to be
estimated based upon a historical trend analysis while major revenues are to
receive a more in depth analysis which also considers the current economic
factors.
   (C)   The village economic development office will actively seek state and
federal grants.
   (D)   Water, sewer, and commuter parking lot funds will be examined annually
by the village board finance committee in order to assure that they are self-
supporting.
   (E)   All charges for services, fees, licenses, permits, etc., will be
reviewed at least annually by the village board finance committee to ensure
that rates are maintained at a level that is related to the cost of providing
the services and are competitive with others providing similar services in the
area.
   (F)   Water and sewer rates will be reviewed annually by the village board
finance committee and set at levels adequate to meet both ordinary and
replacement expenditures for the next year.
   (G)   Connection fees for water and sewer services shall be reviewed
annually by the village board finance committee in conjunction with the five
(5) year capital improvement program to assure that fees are set at rates
adequate to cover the cost of extending services to new or improved
developments.
   (H)   Onetime revenues will not be used to support operating expenditures,
unless such revenues are given for that purpose (e.g., donation for a
firetruck). (Ord. 2015-13, 10-1-2015)
1-26-3: EXPENDITURE POLICIES:
The following expenditure policies are hereby adopted and shall be followed in
the administration of the business of the village:
   (A)   The village will maintain a level of expenditures that will provide
for the public well being and safety of the residents of the community.
   (B)   The annual operating budget will include capital projects identified
in the five (5) year capital improvement program to the extent to which there
are sufficient revenues to finance such items.
   (C)   A performance based employee compensation package consistent with
comparable communities will be maintained to recruit and retain qualified
employees. (Ord. 2015-13, 10-1-2015)
1-26-4: RESERVE POLICIES:
In order to protect against the need to reduce service levels or raise taxes
and fees due to temporary revenue shortfalls or unpredicted onetime
expenditures, the village shall establish cash and investments balance
(generically referred to as fund balance) levels for each fund as hereinafter
provided, and the following reserve policies shall be followed in the
administration of the business of the village:
   (A)   General Fund:
      1.   Fund balance shall be equal to at least three (3) months of the
average monthly expenditure.
      2.   Any additional designation of fund balance for specific reserves
shall be approved by the board of trustees.
      3.   If the unreserved balance falls below the minimum, the board of
trustees shall be immediately notified and a plan will be developed to return
to the minimum balance within a reasonable period of time.
   (B)   Water And Sewer Funds:
      1.   Fund balances shall be equal to at least two (2) months of the
average monthly expenditures.
      2.   If the unreserved balance falls below the minimum, rates will be
adjusted so as to gradually return to the minimum within a reasonable period of
time. If the balances exceed the maximum, the overage will be used to keep
future rate increases lower.
   (C)   Commuter Parking Lot Fund: Fund balance shall be equal to at least two
(2) months of the average monthly expenditures.
   (D)   Police Pension Fund: The police pension fund balance shall be equal to
the recommended fund balance as determined by an actuarial study, as required
by law.
   (E)   All Other Funds: These funds are special revenue funds used primarily
to fund special projects. The fund balances will be reviewed annually by the
village board during the budget preparation to determine their adequacy to fund
special projects. The village board shall pursue short term funding mechanisms
such as lines of credit to provide temporary relief in cases of revenue
shortfalls, expenditure increase, or fund balance decline. (Ord. 2015-13, 10-1-
2015)
1-26-5: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS POLICIES:
The following capital improvements policies are hereby adopted and shall be
followed in the administration of the business of the village:
   (A)   The village board shall maintain a five (5) year capital improvements
program and capital improvements will be made in accordance with that plan. The
program shall be updated annually by the village board.
   (B)   The corresponding year of the capital improvements program will be
incorporated into the annual operating budget.
   (C)   As part of the development of the capital improvements program, the
condition of village infrastructure will be evaluated to appropriately
prioritize and schedule maintenance and replacement.
   (D)   Each capital project will be evaluated for its impact on current and
future operating budgets.
   (E)   Projects that will be partially funded with grant proceeds will be
considered for higher priority status to capitalize on potential village
savings.
   (F)   The village board will review all operating funds to assure that they
are within budget before undertaking capital improvements, unless such capital
improvements are deemed central to the efficient functioning of the system to
which they pertain. (Ord. 2015-13, 10-1-2015)
1-26-6: DEBT POLICIES:
The following debt policies are hereby adopted and shall be followed in the
administration of the business of the village:
   (A)   The village will confine long term borrowing to capital improvements
or onetime obligations that cannot be financed from current revenues or
reserves.
   (B)   Capital projects financed through the issuance of bonds shall be
financed for a period not to exceed the expected useful life of the
improvement.
   (C)   The village will maintain good communications with bond rating
agencies about its financial condition. The village will follow a policy of
full disclosure on every financial report and bond prospectus.
   (D)   As a home rule unit of government in the state of Illinois, the
village has no debt limit. (Ord. 2015-13, 10-1-2015)
1-26-7: FINANCIAL REPORTING POLICIES:
The following financial reporting policies are hereby adopted and shall be
followed in the administration of the business of the village:
   (A)   The village shall adhere to a policy of full and open disclosure of
all financial operations.
   (B)   The village shall prepare a comprehensive annual financial report in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and financial
reporting practices.
   (C)   An independent firm of certified public accountants will perform an
annual financial and compliance audit according to generally accepted auditing
accounting standards (GAAS) (GASB) and will publicly issue an opinion that will
be incorporated in the comprehensive annual financial report. The village will
request proposals from accounting firms every three (3) to five (5) years. The
village will select the firm that best serves its needs based on price, service
and qualifications.
   (D)   As long as the village has outstanding debt, the comprehensive annual
financial report will include the additional disclosures required by SEC rule
15c2-12, continuing disclosure undertakings or other appropriate federal rules
or regulations. (Ord. 2015-13, 10-1-2015)
CHAPTER 27
FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
1-27-1: Fee Schedule Adopted
1-27-1: FEE SCHEDULE ADOPTED:
   FEE SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN INSPECTIONS, PERMITS AND LICENSES
Type Of Permit/License/Inspection Fee                  Code Reference
                                  (Effective 5/1/2022)
Type Of Permit/License/          Fee                             Code Reference
Inspection                       (Effective 5/1/2022)
Condo transfer                   $125.00                         7-21-3
Residential buildings:                                          7-21-3
One family dwelling unit         175.00
Two family dwelling unit         175.00
Three family dwelling unit       250.00
Buildings with +3 dwelling units $75.00 per unit
Commercial buildings:                                           7-1-11
Less than 3,000 sq. ft. of area  $400.00
3,001 to 10,000 sq. ft. of area  500.00
10,001 to 20,000 sq. ft. of area 600.00
20,001 to 100,000 sq. ft. of     800.00
area
More than 100,000 sq. ft. of     900.00
area
Area in excess of 150,000 sq.    $100.00 per each additional
ft.                              50,000 sq. ft. or fragment
                                 thereof
Exempt transfer inspection       $75.00                          7-21-6
Informal inspection              No charge
3-year rental dwelling           $150.00 plus $25.00 per unit    7-21-2
inspection
Building permit:                                                7-1-7
Building permits include decks,  $0.00 - $250.00 = no fee
concrete, garage, sheds, fences, $250.00 - $1,000.00 =$75.00
windows, doors, general          $15.00/$1,000.00 thereafter
remodeling
New construction, remodel,                                      7-1-7
addition, etc.:
$0.00 to $1 million              $0.00 to $1 million = 1.5% of
                                 cost
$1 million to $5 million         $15,000.00 plus 1% of cost over
                                 $1 million
Over $5 million                  $55,000.00 plus 0.5% of cost
                                 over $5 million
                                 General contractor license:
Contractor’s license           $150.00
                                 Subcontractor license: $125.00
                                 License valid May 1 - April 30
Plumbing permit                  Minimum Fee: $85.00, or $15.00  7-6-3
                                 per $1,000.00
Each plumbing fixture (tub,
lavatory, closet, shower, sink,  $25.00 each                     7-6-3
etc.)
 
Type Of Permit/License/ Fee                                    Code Reference
Inspection              (Effective 5/1/2022)
Water tap:                                                     7-6-6
Dishwasher, bar sink, washing machine, water fountain, sump
pump, basin, faucets, floor drain, ice maker, etc.
Size                    Tap Fee Meter Fee
Type Of Permit/License/       Fee                               Code Reference
Inspection                    (Effective 5/1/2022)
Water tap:                                                      7-6-6
Dishwasher, bar sink, washing machine, water fountain, sump
pump, basin, faucets, floor drain, ice maker, etc.
Size                          Tap Fee  Meter Fee
3/4" M25B 5/8 x 3/4                   $468.00
1" M55B (newer style)         $ 700.00 600.00
11/2" M120B (standard with    800.00   1,049.00
test plugs)
2" M170B (standard with test  900.00   1,389.00
plugs)
2" E-Series meter             900.00   2,690.00
3" E-Series meter 3" x 12" or 1,500.00 4,427.00
17"
4" E-Series meter 4" x 14" or 2,000.00 4,440.00
20"
6"                            2,500.00
8"                            3,000.00
10"                           3,500.00
12"
 
Type Of Permit/License/Inspection Fee                  Code Reference
                                  (Effective 5/1/2022)
Type Of Permit/License/         Fee                              Code Reference
Inspection                      (Effective 5/1/2022)
Grease trap                     $75.00 plus permit fee           7-6-3
Hot water heater                $75.00 plus permit fee           7-6-3
RPZ (back flow device)          $75.00 plus permit fee           7-6-3
Construction water usage        $2,000.00 deposit / $11.68/1,000
                                gallons used
Water may be metered in the
discretion of the Building      Hydrant meter required through
Commissioner or Water           Public Works
Superintendent
Tap into Village sewer          $500.00
Lawn sprinkler (non-            $100.00 plus permit fee & PRZ    4-19-15
residential)                    backflow device
Above ground pool (setbacks)    $150.00                          4-19-15
Hot tub                         150.00                           4-19-15
Inspect for wires, fence and
setbacks for all pools and hot   
tubs
Electrical                      $85.00 minimum; $15.00/$1,000.00 7-7-8
                                thereafter
                                0 - 100 amps = $150.00 (plus     7-7-8
                                permit)
                                101 - 200 amps = $200.00 (plus   7-7-8
                                permit)
                                201 - 400 amps = $250.00 (plus   7-7-8
Electrical upgrades             permit)
                                401 - 600 amps = $300.00 (plus   7-7-8
                                permit)
                                601 - 800 amps = $500.00 (plus   7-7-8
                                permit)
                                801 - 1200 amps = $700.00 (plus  7-7-8
                                permit)
                                                                7-7-8
                                20 amps or less: first 50
Branch circuits                 circuits = $60.00
                                20 amps or less: $15.00/circuit
                                over 50
                                21 - 50 amps: $40.00 per circuit
Motors                          First motor = $50.00             7-7-8
                                $25.00 for each additional motor 7-7-8
New outlets on existing         $8.00 each                       7-7-8
circuits
Low voltage systems             75.00                            7-7-8
                                Under $250.00 = no fee           7-1-20
Mechanical HVAC                 $250.00 to $1,000.00 = $75.00    7-1-20
                                $15.00/$1,000.00 thereafter      7-1-20
                                Under $250.00 = no fee
Roof                            $250.00 - $1,000.00 = $75.00
                                $15.00 0/$1,000.00 thereafter
Dumpster (15 day limit per      On street = $150.00; on driveway 9-16-2
permit)                         = $50.00
PODS (5 day limit)              On street = $150.0; on driveway
                                = $50.00
Demolition permit:                                              7-1-7
Residential dwellings           Residential = $1,500.00
Detached garage                 Garage = $500.00
Commercial/industrial           $0.38/sq. ft. of total area
properties
Review of plans by site plan     
review:
Single unit                     $75.00                           7-23-6
Multi-family structure          thereafter)                      7-23-6
Site plan review of all other   250.00                           7-23-6
structures
Out sourced review of plans     Cost of review by contractor     7-23-7
Reinspection fee                After 2nd - $100.00 per re-
                                inspection
Working without a permit        2 x Permit Fee Up To $75.000 +   7-1-1
                                Permit Fee
Working beyond the scope of     2 x Permit Fee Up To $75.000 +   7-1-1
permit                          Permit Fee
Working without a current                                       7-1-1
license:
General contractor              Greater of $300.00 or 2 x
                                License Fee
Subcontractor                   Greater of $250.00 or 2 x
                                License Fee
Tent - commercial/industrial    125.00
Signs:                                                          7-4-13
Non-illuminated                 Up to $1,000.00 = $75.00 +       7-4-13
                                $12.00/$1,000.00 thereafter
Illuminated signs/clocks        Up to $1,000.00 = $75.00 +       7-4-13
                                $12.00/$1,000.00 thereafter
Temporary signs                 $75.00 (temporary for 30 days)   7-4-13
                                $0.00 - $5,000.00 = $0.00        7-1-7.1
                                $5,000.00 - $25,000.00 = $500.00 7-1-7.1
Security deposits               $25,000.00 - $75,000.00 =
                                $1,000.00
                                Over $75,000.00 = $1,500.00      7-1-7.1
Flood control systems           $250.00
Annual Fire Department          $50.00
inspection Fee
Home occupation inspection fee  $75.00
Annual Health Department        $80.00
inspection fee
Fire Department plan review     Paper submission:
fees:
Fire alarm                         $ 0.07 per sq. ft.         7-1-2.1
Fire sprinkler                     0.07 per sq. ft.           7-1-2.1
Fire pump                          300.00 per pump            7-1-2.1
Hood and duct                      200.00 per system          7-1-2.1
Outdoor event                      150.00 per day             7-1-2.1
Dumpster contractor's license      100.00 per year
Landscaper contractor's license    100.00 per year
Tree removal on private         Under $250.00 = no fee
property
For trees exceeding 16' in      $250.00 - $1,000.00 = $50.00
height All contractors must be  $12.00/$1,000.00 thereafter
licensed
Annual contractor license fee   $125.00
Annual subcontractor license    100.00
fee
Tree permits are valid for 30    
days
 
(Ord. 2019-04, 2-21-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 4-7-2022)
TITLE II
DEPARTMENTS AND BOARDS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-1-1: Department Created
2-1-2: Rank
2-1-3: Bond Required (Rep. by Ord 2020-24, 11-19-2020)
2-1-4: Removal From Department
2-1-5: Director Of Police
2-1-5.1: Deputy Director Of Police
2-1-6: Reserve Police Officer Supplemental Services
2-1-7: Village Officers Special Police (Rep. by Ord. 2006-32, 12-7-2006)
2-1-8: Police Committee, Duties (Rep. by Ord. 2005-20, 10-20-2005)
2-1-9: Oath Of Office
2-1-10: Neglect Of Duty
2-1-11: False Representation
2-1-12: Policemen; Duties
2-1-13: Absence From Duty
2-1-14: Gifts; Rewards
2-1-15: Residence
2-1-16: Special Investigation Division
2-1-17: Retirement
2-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
The police department of the village is hereby established and shall be known
as the "police department of the village of River Grove". It shall consist of a
director of police, deputy director of police and such lieutenants, sergeants
and such other officers and personnel as shall be determined by the president
and board of trustees in the annual appropriation ordinance. All full time
members of the police department shall be appointed by the board of fire and
police commissioners of the village, in accordance with law, except that the
director and deputy director of the police department shall be appointed by the
corporate authorities as provided by ordinance. The compensation of all full
time members of the police department shall be determined by the president and
board of trustees in accordance with law. (Ord. 2007-11, 6-21-2007, eff. 7-1-
2007; amd. Ord. 2020-24, 11-19-2020)
2-1-2: RANK:
The following promotable ranks are hereby established: sergeant and patrol
officer. The number of officers in each respective position shall be determined
by the president and board of trustees in the annual appropriation ordinance.
All promotions shall be made by the board of fire and police commissioners in
accordance with section 10-2.1-15 of the Illinois municipal code, with all
vacancies being filled by promotion. Commencing on May 1, 2020, the promotable
rank of lieutenant is eliminated and current positions within the rank of
lieutenant shall be eliminated through attrition, with any eliminated
lieutenant position being replaced by an additional position within the rank of
sergeant. (Ord. 2005-20, 10-20-2005; amd. Ord. 2020-24, 11-19-2020)
2-1-3: BOND REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord 2020-24, 11-19-2020)
2-1-4: REMOVAL FROM DEPARTMENT:
Upon removal or discharge of any member of the police department, the removed
or discharged member shall promptly return the star and all other property in
the member's possession issued by and belonging to the village, to the director
of police or, in the police director's absence, the clerk. (Ord. 2005-20, 10-
20-2005; amd. Ord. 2006-27, 10-5-2006)
2-1-5: DIRECTOR OF POLICE:
There is hereby created the office of director of police, a position commonly
referred to as chief of police, a civilian position exempt from appointment by
the board of fire and police commissioners and deemed a confidential
supervisory position. The director of police shall be the supervisory head of
the police department and responsible for its general administrative operation
and control. The director of police shall have the powers and perform the
duties of chief of police as prescribed by the ordinances of the village, laws
of the state and rules and regulations of the department which may from time to
time be adopted by the president and board of trustees. The position is
nonpromotable and its holder is deemed a confidential employee, as defined in
the Illinois public labor relations act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 315/1 et
seq., and exempt from the examination and other requirements of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1 et seq., and exempt from the provisions of the
federal fair labor standards act. Whenever in this code reference is made to
the "chief of police" or "police chief", such reference shall be deemed to be
the "director of police".
   (A)   Appointment: The director of police is a sworn police officer and
shall be appointed annually by the president, with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees. The president is authorized to appoint, suspend or
discharge the director of police. The appointment of the director of police
may, but need not be, from among the members of the police department, and
regardless of rank. The director of police, if having been appointed from among
members of the police department, shall be permitted, to take promotional exams
and be promoted to a higher classified rank than the member currently holds,
without having to resign as director of police. If a member of the department
is appointed director of police prior to being eligible to retire on pension,
the member shall be considered as on furlough from the rank the member held
immediately prior to the member's appointment as director. If the member
resigns as director or is discharged as director prior to attaining eligibility
to retire on pension, the member shall revert to and be established in whatever
rank the member currently holds, except for previously appointed positions, and
thereafter be entitled to all the benefits and emoluments of that rank, without
regard as to whether a vacancy then exists in that rank.
   (B)   Discharge Or Removal: The director of police shall serve at the will
and pleasure of the corporate authorities, but shall be removed or discharged
only by the corporate authorities. In such case, the president shall file with
the corporate authorities the reasons for such removal or discharge, which
removal or discharge shall not become effective unless confirmed by a majority
vote of the board of trustees.
   (C)   Compensation And Benefits: The director of police shall receive such
compensation as shall be fixed by the president and board of trustees as said
position is excluded from the bargaining unit defined under the collective
bargaining agreement between the village of River Grove and police officers'
representative. The compensation paid to the director of police shall be
determined by the president and board of trustees in the annual appropriation
ordinance and by agreement with the director of police as is approved by the
corporate authorities. If a member of the department is appointed director of
police, for benefits purposes, the member's years of service prior to the
appointment shall be used in determining the employment benefits to which the
member shall receive as a director of police. If the director of police is not
appointed from the members of the department, the director's benefits shall be
determined in accordance with the benefit provisions applicable to other
civilian employees.
   (D)   Qualifications: The director of police shall be qualified through
training and experience to administer the police department, shall be a
certified police officer within the State of Illinois (or carry an equivalent
certification from another jurisdiction), and shall have reached previously the
rank of sergeant or higher. The director of police is required to carry a
firearm and must be authorized to carry such a firearm in accordance with law.
   (E)   [intentionally omitted]
   (F)   Powers And Duties: The director of police shall have the following
powers, duties, and responsibilities:
      1.   Generally: All authorities granted the chief of police by Illinois
state statute shall apply to the director of police. The director of police
shall be responsible for the direction and performance of all police department
functions including all police personnel of the village, whether full time
sworn police officers, part time officers, auxiliary officers, or civilian
employees of the department. The director of police is required to ensure the
efficient operation of the police department and all members and employees of
the police department shall obey the orders, rules and regulations given or set
by the director of police for the conduct and guidance of the members of the
police department. In the absence of the director of police, the deputy
director of police or the director’s designee from time to time shall have the
same duties and responsibilities as the director of police. (Ord. 2007-11, 6-
21-2007, eff. 7-1-2007)
      2.   Maintain Discipline: The director of police shall maintain
discipline of all personnel of the department, and with respect to full time
members of the department, the director of police shall follow the disciplinary
procedures set forth in the current collective bargaining agreement and the
Illinois Uniform Peace Officers Disciplinary Act, 50 ILCS 725, et seq..
      3.   Intergovernmental Agreements: The director of police shall
administer and enforce any intergovernmental agreements the village has entered
with any other such municipality with respect to furnishing or receiving police
assistance on request; and shall administer and supervise the supplemental
police services and secondary employment policy of the department and village.
      4.   Collective Bargaining Agreements: The director of police shall
administer and enforce the terms and conditions of any collective bargaining
agreement between the village and the representative of the members of the
police department, and shall prepare rules and regulations for the police
department, which rules and regulations shall be subject to the approval of the
corporate authorities, and thereafter implement and enforce such rules and
regulations.
      5.   Preserve And Maintain Records And Reports: All police records and
original reports shall be preserved and maintained pursuant to the direction of
the office of the director of police and shall be made available to the public
only as duly authorized by state statute.
      6.   Keeper Of The Village Jail: The director of police, or his or her
designee, shall be the keeper of the village jail and shall have custody of all
persons incarcerated therein. Until a person shall be brought before a judge
for a hearing or until a person shall be transferred lawfully to some other
place of incarceration or until a person shall be otherwise lawfully released,
the jail may be used only for the incarceration of a person arrested for
violating any law of any state or the United States or for violating any
village ordinance. It shall be unlawful for any person to escape, attempt to
escape or to assist any prisoner to escape or attempt to escape from jail. It
shall be unlawful for any person to communicate with any prisoner held in the
jail without the permission of the director of police, his or her designee, the
police supervisor, or the acting police officer in charge.
      7.   Record Activities Of Police Department: The director of police shall
keep such records and make such reports concerning the activities of the police
department as may be required by federal, state or local law or village
ordinance.
      8.   Civilian Personnel Of The Police Department: The director of police,
or his or her designee, shall be responsible for supervising all civilian
personnel of the department and all such personnel shall be subject to the
following regulations:
         (a)   Civilian employees shall have the work hours and assume the
duties set forth by the director of police, or his or her designee.
         (b)   Civilian employees shall have the compensation and time off for
holidays designated by the president and board of trustees.
      9.   Custody Of Property: The director of police shall have custody of
all lost, abandoned or stolen property recovered by the village or any of its
departments.
      Such property shall be properly inventoried, stored and disposed of in
accordance with state law.
      10.   Other Duties Assigned By Corporate Authorities: The director of
police shall perform such other duties as from time to time assigned by the
president or corporate authorities.
   (G)   Deputy Chief Of Police: The director is authorized, with the approval
of the president, to appoint, suspend or discharge one deputy chief in
accordance with Section
2-1-5.1 of this Chapter. (Ord. 2006-27, 10-5-2006; amd. Ord. 2020-25, 11-19-
2020)
2-1-5.1: DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF POLICE:
   (A)   Position Created: There is hereby created the office of deputy
director of police, a position commonly referred to as deputy chief of police,
and that shall consist of one (1) position. The deputy director of police shall
be a position exempt from appointment by the board of fire and police
commissioners. The deputy director of police shall be hired by the director of
police with the concurrence and an appointment by the president of the village
board. To qualify for an appointment as deputy director of police, the
individual shall: (1) be certified police officer who has at a minimum attained
the rank of sergeant or its equivalent; and (2) possess a bachelor’s or higher
degree from an accredited university of college prior to appointment.
Compensation for the deputy director of police position shall be fixed by the
president and board of trustees in the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Powers And Duties Of Deputy Director Of Police: The deputy director of
police shall serve at the direction and discretion of the director of police,
and shall perform those duties and services as required by the director of
police. In the event the director of police is not available to perform his or
her duties, the deputy director of police shall have the same powers and duties
generally as that of the director of police within his or her respective areas
of concern or as otherwise provided by the director of police or in his or her
absence. The deputy director of police reports directly to the director of
police. In the absence of the director of police, the deputy director of police
shall report directly to the village president. (Ord. 2020-24, 11-19-2020)
2-1-6: RESERVE POLICE OFFICER SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICES:
The director of police shall have supervisory authority over all part time
police officers and auxiliary police officers appointed by the corporate
authorities in accordance with local ordinance and state law.
   (A)   Director of Supplemental Police Services: The office of director of
supplemental police services is hereby created, and the president shall have
the at-will authority to appoint, suspend, discharge or remove the director of
supplemental police services. The compensation paid to the director of
supplemental police services shall be determined by the president and board of
trustees in the annual appropriation ordinance. The director of supplemental
police services shall assist the director of police in the administration and
use of the part-time and auxiliary police officers of the department.
   (B)   Deputy Director of Supplemental Police Services. The position of
deputy director of supplemental police services is hereby created, and the
president shall have the at will authority to appoint, suspend, discharge or
remove the deputy director of supplemental police services. The compensation
paid to the deputy director of supplemental police services shall be determined
by the president and board of trustees in the annual appropriation ordinance.
The deputy director of supplemental police services shall assist the director
of supplemental police services in the administration and use of the part-time
and auxiliary police officers within the police department.
   (C)   Assignment of Part-Time and/or Auxiliary Reserve Police Officer: Upon
application from any resident or business within the village, the director of
police or the director of supplemental police services. with the approval of
the president, may assign a full-time. part-time or auxiliary reserve police
officer to provide security, watchmen, or other related police services to the
individual or business in accordance with the supplemental police services
policy of the village. All such supplemental police services shall be without
expense to the village. (Ord. 2020-24, 11-19-2020)
2-1-7: VILLAGE OFFICERS SPECIAL POLICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2006-32, 12-7-2006)
2-1-8: POLICE COMMITTEE, DUTIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2005-20, 10-20-2005)
2-1-9: OATH OF OFFICE:
All members of the police force of the village shall, before entering upon duty
as policemen, take and subscribe an oath of office, substantially in the
following form:
   I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States and of the State of Illinois, and that, I will faithfully discharge the
duties of the office of policeman of the village of River Grove to the best of
my ability.
Which oath shall be subscribed and sworn to before some officer authorized by
the laws of this state to administer oaths, and the certificate thereof filed
in the office of the clerk. (Rev. Code 1939)
2-1-10: NEGLECT OF DUTY:
Any member of the police department who shall neglect or refuse to perform any
duty required of the member by the provisions of this code or who shall in the
discharge of official duties be guilty of any fraud, favoritism, partiality,
extortion, oppression, or wilful wrong and injustice, shall pay a fine of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, the prosecution for such offense to be
conducted as in other cases of violation of any local ordinance. (Ord. 2005-20,
10-20-2005)
2-1-11: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
Any person who shall falsely represent, assume, or pretend to be a police
officer of the village of River Grove, or a member of the police department of
the village, or who shall, with intent to deceive, use or wear in public or
imitate any of the signs, signals and devices adopted and used by the police
department, or who shall wear in public the uniform or badge adopted or used as
the police uniform or badge, or any other which shall be similar in appearance,
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and every such offense. (Ord. 2005-20,
10-20-2005)
2-1-12: POLICEMEN; DUTIES:
   (A)   The members of the police department, shall devote their time and
attention to the discharge of their duties according to the laws of the village
and the rules and regulations which the village board may from time to time
adopt and prescribe. It shall be the duty of each member of the police force of
the village to preserve order, peace and quiet, and enforce the laws throughout
the village. They shall report to the captain of police all cases where
buildings may be in process of erection prior to the issuance of permit, all
sidewalks and roadways that are in a dangerous condition, all cases of unlawful
obstruction of streets and alleys and other public grounds, all cases of
contagious diseases, all cases of unsanitary conditions, all thefts and
robberies and other infractions of the laws and ordinances of the village, and
all serious accidents; and the captain of police shall record such reports in a
record to be provided for the purpose. He shall immediately report in writing
to the department having control of the respective matters all such defective,
unsanitary and illegal conditions, and include the same in his report to the
chairman of the police committee.
   (B)   All members of the police department shall have the power and
authority to serve and execute all warrants, writs and other process for the
apprehension or commitment of persons charged with an offense or crime or
misdemeanor, or held for examination or trial for the violation of any law.
They shall also have power and authority to serve and execute any and all
writs, warrants, summons or other process, or in assistance in the same. Such
policemen shall have and possess all the powers and authority conferred on
constables at common law and by the statutes of the state of Illinois. (Rev.
Ord. 1939)
2-1-13: ABSENCE FROM DUTY:
Any unexplained absence from duty without leave of any member of the police
department of said village for one day or more shall be deemed and held to be a
resignation by such member and accepted as such. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
2-1-14: GIFTS; REWARDS:
No member of the police department shall for his own benefit, share in any
present, gift or emolument for police service without the consent of the police
committee of the village board. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
2-1-15: RESIDENCE:
All applicants for a position in the police department of the village and all
members must be citizens of the United States, legal voters, meet statutory
requirements of the state of Illinois, reside within Cook, DuPage, Will, Kane,
McHenry or Lake Counties in Illinois, possess a valid Illinois driver's license
and be of good moral character. (Ord. 1986-2, 3-6-1986)
2-1-16: SPECIAL INVESTIGATION DIVISION:
A detail is hereby established within the police department which shall be
known as the special investigation division, having the duties, powers and
staffed as follows:
   (A)   The president may appoint, as provided in this code, such number of
persons, serving at his pleasure, to this division as may be required to carry
out its functions, which appointments may be, but need not be, from among the
members of the police department. (Ord. 1977-11, 6-16-1977)
   (B)   This division shall be under the supervision of the director of police
and may make any investigation or studies and shall perform such special or
other duties as may be directed by the president. (Ord. 1977-11, 6-16-1977;
amd. Ord. 2006-27, 10-5-2006)
   (C)   All persons appointed to this division shall be subject to the removal
at any time, without or with cause, and without any hearing, by the president.
   (D)   Members of this division shall have the powers and authority of
regular police officers while in the performance of their duties. (Ord. 1977-
11, 6-16-1977)
2-1-17: RETIREMENT:
The age for retirement of persons in the service of the village as regular
members of the police department, pursuant to appointment thereto by the board
of fire and police commissioners, as provided for in article 10 of the Illinois
municipal code, is sixty (60) years. All such members of the police department
shall retire on or before having attained said age. (Ord. 1990-3, 2-15-1990)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY SERVICES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Department Established
2-2-2: Emergency Services; Duties
2-2-3: Officers
2-2-4: Operational Personnel
2-2-5: Authority Of Director; Custody Of Equipment
2-2-6: Examination Of Equipment
2-2-7: Repair Of Equipment
2-2-8: Annual Report By Director
2-2-9: Director In Charge At Fires And Other Emergencies; Appoint Officers
2-2-10: Director To Investigate Fire Causes
2-2-11: Inspections
2-2-12: Power To Inspect
2-2-13: Director To Examine Structures
2-2-14: Regulations At Fires Or Emergencies
2-2-15: Control Of Property
2-2-16: Compensation
2-2-17: Charges For Ambulance Services
2-2-18: Public Services
2-2-19: Assistance By Bystanders
2-2-20: Offenses Against Personnel Or Equipment
2-2-21: Driving Over Equipment
2-2-22: Possession Or Use Of Keys
2-2-23: Unlawful Use Of Alarm Devices
2-2-24: Fire Hydrants, Damage To
2-2-25: Impersonating An Officer
2-2-26: Redemption Of Property From Fire Or Emergency Scene
2-2-27: Commissioner Of Emergency Services
2-2-28: Emergency Response Fees
2-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
A department of emergency services, hereinafter referred to as "department", is
hereby established for the village. The department shall be divided into two
(2) divisions to be known as the emergency medical services division and the
fire operations division. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-2: EMERGENCY SERVICES; DUTIES:
The department of emergency services shall be responsible for and shall provide
the following services through its respective subdivisions:
   (A)   The emergency medical services division shall provide full time
advanced life support (ALS) ambulance services in accordance with the emergency
medical services systems act, the regulations of the Illinois department of
public health, and such other applicable federal and state laws and
regulations, and shall participate in mutual aid consisting of furnishing
equipment and personnel to and from other municipalities as authorized by the
corporate authorities.
   (B)   The fire operations division shall use and employ all equipment,
material and personnel as authorized and provided by the corporate authorities
to prevent, suppress, extinguish and investigate fires within the village, and
shall participate in mutual aid consisting of furnishing and employing
equipment and personnel to and from other municipalities or fire protection
districts as authorized by the corporate authorities.
   (C)   The director of emergency services, as hereinafter provided for, shall
be responsible for coordinating all functions and services between the two (2)
divisions, and shall be responsible for coordinating these services within the
operation of the village's
9-1-1 emergency telephone system. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-3: OFFICERS:
   (A)   The department shall be headed by the director of emergency services
who shall be appointed by the president, by and with the consent of the board
of trustees, annually during the month of May of each year, and once appointed,
shall serve at the will of the president. The director of emergency services
shall also serve as the chief of emergency medical services division and chief
of the fire operations division. In addition to the director of emergency
services, the department shall have a deputy fire chief of operations, an
assistant chief of administration, and secretary, to be nominated by the
director and thereafter appointed by the president, by and with the consent of
the board of trustees, annually during the month of May of each year, and once
appointed, shall serve at the will of the director.
   (B)   In addition to the director of emergency services, the deputy fire
chief of operations, the assistant chief of administration, and secretary, the
department shall consist of the following officers in their respective
divisions:
      1.   Emergency Medical Services Coordinator: The department of emergency
medical services shall be under the immediate supervision of the assistant
chief of administration, who shall report directly to the director (fire chief)
and deputy fire chief. The director shall nominate the assistant chief of
administration within thirty (30) days of appointment, subject to the consent
of and confirmation by the president and board of trustees. Thereafter, the
assistant chief shall serve at the will of the president. The assistant chief
of administration shall then nominate and appoint an emergency medical services
coordinator, subject to the consent of and confirmation by the director, to
serve under the direction of the assistant chief and assist the assistant chief
in the administration and fulfillment of duties of the emergency medical
services division and fire prevention services.
      2.   Fire Marshal: The director of emergency services/fire chief shall
appoint and nominate a fire marshal who will report directly to and assist the
assistant chief of administration. The fire chief shall appoint and nominate
the fire marshal within thirty (30) days of appointment, subject to the consent
of and confirmation by the president and board of trustees. Thereafter, the
fire marshal shall serve at the will of the president.
      3.   Captain Of Fire Suppression Operations: The director of emergency
services/fire chief shall appoint and nominate a captain of fire suppression
operations who will report directly to and assist the deputy fire chief. The
fire chief shall appoint and nominate the captain of fire suppression
operations within thirty (30) days of appointment, subject to the consent of
and confirmation by the president and board of trustees. Thereafter, the
captain of fire suppression operations shall serve at the will of the
president.
      4.   Captain Of Administration: The director of emergency services/fire
chief shall appoint and nominate a captain of administration who will report
directly to and assist the assistant chief of administration. The fire chief
shall appoint and nominate the captain of administration within thirty (30)
days of appointment, subject to the consent of and confirmation by the
president and board of trustees. Thereafter, the captain of administration
shall serve at the will of the president.
      5.   Fire Operations Officers: The director of emergency services/fire
chief shall appoint and nominate the officers of the fire operations division
as provided for below, and except for the coordinator positions, said
appointments shall be subject to the consent of and confirmation by the board
of trustees annually. The coordinator positions shall be filled by the fire
chief, and such coordinators shall serve at the will of the fire chief. The
fire operations division shall consist of the following officers:
         (a) Deputy Fire Chief: One deputy fire chief, who shall report
directly to the fire chief.
         (b) Assistant Chief Of Fire Suppression Operations: One assistant
chief of fire suppression operations, who shall report directly to the fire
chief and deputy fire chief.
         (c) Captain Of Fire Suppression Operations: One captain of fire
suppression operations, who shall report directly to the chief and deputy
chief.
         (d) Lieutenant Of Fire Department Training: One lieutenant of fire
department training, who shall report directly to the fire chief, deputy fire
chief, and assistant chief of fire suppression operations.
         (e) Lieutenant Of Vehicle And Equipment Maintenance: One lieutenant of
vehicle and equipment maintenance, who shall report directly to the fire chief,
deputy fire chief, and assistant chief of fire suppression operations.
         (f) Lieutenant Of Special Response Teams: One lieutenant of special
response teams, who shall report directly to the fire chief, deputy fire chief,
and assistant chief of fire suppression operations.
         (g) Lieutenants Responsible For Shift Operations: Twelve (12)
lieutenants responsible for normal shift operations, who shall report directly
to the fire chief, deputy fire chief, and assistant chief of fire suppression
operations.
         (h) Coordinator Of Public Education Programs: One coordinator of
public education programs, who shall report directly to the fire chief, deputy
fire chief, and assistant chief of administration.
         (i) Secretary: One secretary, who shall report directly to the fire
chief, and be responsible for preparing, maintaining, and certifying the books,
records, and other documents of the department.
         (j) Disaster Preparedness Coordinator: One disaster preparedness
coordinator, who shall report directly to the chief, deputy fire chief and the
assistant chief of administration.
         (k) Foreign Fire Insurance Board: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-10-2, three (3) directors, one treasurer and one secretary shall
be elected to the department's foreign fire insurance board by the members of
the department. All members of the department shall be eligible to be elected
as officers of the department's foreign fire insurance board. These officers
shall make all needful rules and regulations with respect to the foreign fire
insurance board and the management of the money to be appropriated to the
board. The officers of the department's foreign fire insurance board shall
develop and maintain listings of those items that the board feels are
appropriate expenditures under Illinois law. All of the money paid to the
municipal treasurer as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-
1 shall be set apart and shall be appropriated annually by the corporate
authorities to the department's foreign fire insurance board. The treasurer of
the department's foreign fire insurance board shall give a one thousand dollar
($1,000.00) bond to the municipality in which the fire department is organized.
This bond shall be approved by the president and conditioned upon the faithful
performance by the treasurer of his or her duties under this section and the
board's rules and regulations. The treasurer of the department's foreign fire
insurance board shall receive the appropriated money and shall pay out the
money upon the order of the department's foreign fire insurance board for the
maintenance, use, and benefit of the department only. As part of the annual
municipal audit, these funds shall be audited to verify that these purchases
are for the maintenance, use, and benefit of the department only. All officers
shall be elected by ballot by majority vote of the department members voting on
candidates for said offices on the first Friday of June each year. All regular
department members in good standing shall be eligible to be elected as an
officer so long as the candidate identifies in writing to the director of
emergency services his or her intent to run for office and the office being
sought no later than the first Friday in May preceding the election.
Probationary members of the department shall not be eligible for any office. If
no qualified member runs for a particular office, the director may appoint a
qualified member to said office until the next election of officers.
In January of each year, the treasurer of the foreign fire insurance board
shall provide to the director of emergency services and the corporate
authorities a complete written report accounting for the expenditure and
balance of all foreign insurance money received from the village during the
previous year and shall identify the name and address of the financial
institution in which said money is deposited.
      6.   Hierarchy Of Supervision: The director of emergency services shall
designate an appropriate number of acting officers necessary to ensure the
proper supervision and direction of every shift in the absence of an appointed
officer. Acting officers shall have the supervisory authority and
responsibility in the absence of higher ranking personnel and all such acting
officers shall serve at the will of the director. (Ord. 2006-13, 6-1-2006)
2-2-4: OPERATIONAL PERSONNEL:
The operational personnel of the emergency medical services division and the
fire operations division shall consist of the following:
   (A)   The emergency medical services division shall consist of such number
of part time certified emergency medical technician paramedics ("EMT-P"), as
defined and certified by the Illinois department of public health under the
Illinois emergency medical services systems act or other applicable state
statute or regulation, as may, from time to time, be needed to maintain twenty
four (24) hour, seven (7) days per week, emergency medical services and as
authorized by the corporate authorities. To remain qualified for a position
within the emergency medical services division, each individual must remain in
good standing with the advanced life support EMS system in which the village
participates, and also must possess a current, valid license as an EMT-P in
accordance with state law. No EMT-P shall be permitted to work more than thirty
six (36) hours per week unless authorized in advance and in writing by the
corporate authorities.
   (B)   The fire operations division shall consist of such number of part time
firefighters holding firefighter II certification, as defined and approved by
the office of the state fire marshal or other applicable state statute or
regulation, and an EMT-B certificate, as defined and certified by the Illinois
department of public health under the Illinois emergency medical services
systems act or other applicable state statute or regulation, as may, from time
to time, be needed to maintain twenty four (24) hour, seven (7) days per week,
fire suppression services and as authorized by the corporate authorities. To
remain qualified for a position within the fire operations division, each
individual must remain in good standing and possess a current, valid
firefighter II certification and EMT-B certificate in accordance with state
law. No part time firefighter shall be permitted to work more than thirty six
(36) hours per week unless authorized in advance and in writing by the
corporate authorities. In addition to its part time firefighters, the fire
operations division may consist of such number of paid on call firefighters as
may, from time to time, be authorized by the corporate authorities, to
supplement and support the part time firefighters of the division. Any
recruited firefighter trainee of the village shall be at least twenty one (21)
years of age and shall serve as a probationary member of the department for one
year, and thereafter as a firefighter II in training until he or she completes
a basic firefighting course (firefighter II) approved by the office of the
state fire marshal and thereafter passes the state test for firefighter II
certification, and obtains EMT-B certification or higher. Any recruited
firefighter trainee who fails to complete basic firefighting training, obtain
firefighter II certification, and/or EMT-B certification within three (3) years
from the date of initial employment shall be disqualified from further
employment within the fire operations division. Additionally, all members of
the fire operations division shall maintain firefighter II certification, EMT-
B certification, and meet all other necessary and appropriate requirements
established by the state, village and/or the fire operations division to remain
qualified for employment with the fire operations division. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-
21-2000; amd. Ord. 2002-02, 3-14-2002)
   (C)   All personnel of the department of emergency services and its
subdivisions shall be subject to and comply with all rules, regulations,
procedures, policies and codes of the village and its departments, all state
and federal laws and regulations as they pertain to the performance of their
duties, as well as all rules and requirements of the advanced life support EMS
system in which the village participates.
   (D)   In addition to the personnel code and all other applicable village
rules and ordinances, the director of emergency services shall make or approve
all needful operational guidelines, rules, policies, procedures, and
regulations with respect to the day to day operation of the department and its
subdivisions. Additionally, an elected committee from the members of the fire
operations division shall make all necessary rules and regulations regarding
the management and use of the foreign insurance money to be paid to the
treasurer of the fire operations division, and direct the payment of said money
solely for the maintenance, use and benefit of the fire operations division, as
required by state law. Copies of all rules and regulations and any amendments
thereto of the department and both of its subdivisions shall be submitted to
the corporate authorities for confirmation thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date of such rules and regulations. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
   (E)   In the event that the director of emergency services determines that
the effective and efficient scheduling of the personnel in the department
requires that personnel be scheduled on a monthly basis and not weekly, the
personnel shall be permitted to work up to, but not in excess of, one hundred
forty four (144) hours per month. (Ord. 2002-02, 3-14-2002)
2-2-5: AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR; CUSTODY OF EQUIPMENT:
The director of emergency services shall have control and command over
personnel of both the emergency medical services division and the fire
operations division, shall possess full power and authority over the department
of emergency services and its subdivisions, and custody, subject to the
direction of the corporate authorities, of the engines, hoses, trucks, ladders,
electrical lines, ambulances and other property and equipment of the department
of emergency services and its subdivisions. All equipment and property of the
department of emergency services and its subdivisions shall be maintained and
stored in the facilities of the department of emergency services. The director
of emergency services also shall have full authority over the department's
organization, government and discipline, and he or she shall be responsible for
enforcing the rules, policies and regulations applicable to the department or
its subdivisions. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-6: EXAMINATION OF EQUIPMENT:
The director of emergency services shall be responsible for examining or
directing the examination of the condition of the apparatus and facilities of
the department and its subdivisions on a weekly basis. In January of each year,
the director shall report to the corporate authorities, a complete description
and inventory of the equipment of the department and its subdivisions and the
condition thereof. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-7: REPAIR OF EQUIPMENT:
The director of emergency services shall, whenever any fire engine, hose,
truck, ambulance or other apparatus is in need of repair, report such fact,
indicating the amount and nature of necessary repairs, to the public safety
committee, and with the committee's consent shall cause such repairs to be
made, under his or her direction and supervision. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-8: ANNUAL REPORT BY DIRECTOR:
The director of emergency services shall, at the second meeting of the village
board in January in each year, make a full and complete written report of all
transactions in said department and its subdivisions for the preceding year.
Such report shall show as nearly as can be ascertained, the number of ambulance
runs and the number of fires, causes thereof, all accidents by fire, the number
and description of the buildings destroyed and injured, together with the names
of the owners and occupants, the amount of property destroyed by fire, the
insurance thereon if any, and shall contain the statistics and suggestions as
he or she may deem appropriate. Additionally, the director of emergency
services shall submit a roster of all regular and probationary members of both
the emergency medical services division and the fire operations division and
offer personnel suggestions as he or she deems appropriate. In addition to the
annual report, the director of emergency services shall, at the second meeting
of the village board in each month, provide the village board a monthly
financial report and report of all calls in said department and its
subdivisions for the preceding month. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-9: DIRECTOR IN CHARGE AT FIRES AND OTHER EMERGENCIES; APPOINT OFFICERS:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the director of emergency services, if within
his or her power, to attend all fires, and in case of his or her absence at any
fire, it shall be the duty of the senior officer in command of the fire company
first on the ground at such fire to take charge of the fire operations
division, and during the absence of the chief, he or she shall have and
exercise all the powers of the fire chief. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
   (B)   Within thirty (30) days of being appointed by the corporate
authorities, the director of emergency services shall appoint the following
command officers: a deputy fire chief, an assistant chief of fire suppression
operations, a captain of fire suppression operations, a secretary, a deputy
chief of emergency medical services, a lieutenant of fire division training, a
lieutenant of fire division equipment and maintenance, a lieutenant of fire
division special response operations, twelve (12) shift lieutenants, and a
chief engineer, and shall within said time, submit the name and qualifications
of the candidates to the corporate authorities for confirmation. To qualify for
the positions of deputy fire chief, assistant chief of administration, or a
lieutenant of the fire division, an individual must possess firefighter III
certification; hazardous materials first responder certification; and EMT-
A certification in addition to any other requirements established by resolution
of the corporate authorities or the rules and regulations of the department.
(Ord. 2006-13, 6-1-2006)
2-2-10: DIRECTOR TO INVESTIGATE FIRE CAUSES:
The director of emergency services shall inquire or direct an inquiry into and
investigate the cause of all fires which may occur in the village as soon as
possible, after they occur, and shall keep a record of his or her proceedings
and of the circumstances of each case. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-11: INSPECTIONS:
The director of emergency services, through the fire operations division, shall
at least once every six (6) months, inspect or direct the inspection of all
school buildings, daycare centers, nurseries and other childcare facilities,
and once annually inspect all public halls, churches and all buildings used for
manufacturing purposes, for the purpose of determining the safety of the
building and its conformance with all local and state fire codes, and shall
cause to be prosecuted all laws of the village, in any way concerning the
prevention or extinguishment of fires or delivery of other emergency services.
(Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-12: POWER TO INSPECT:
The director of emergency services shall have the power to enter upon the
premises wherein any fire or other emergency has occurred, if necessary in
order to investigate the origin of the fire or emergency; and in conjunction
with the village building commissioner and in accordance with village rules and
procedures, shall have power to stop the construction of any building when the
same is being done in a reckless or careless manner, or in violation of any of
the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-13: DIRECTOR TO EXAMINE STRUCTURES:
The director of emergency services shall examine or direct the examination of
all buildings and walls reported dangerous or damaged by fire or accident, and
shall, when requested by the president, also examine all buildings under
application to raise, alter or rebuild, and make a report of the conditions
thereof to the corporate authorities. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-14: REGULATIONS AT FIRES OR EMERGENCIES:
The director of emergency services or other officers of the emergency medical
services division or fire operations division in command may prescribe limits
in the vicinity of any fire or other emergency, within which no person
excepting those who reside therein, firefighters, paramedics, police officers
and those admitted by any officer of the emergency medical services or fire
operations divisions, shall be permitted to enter. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-15: CONTROL OF PROPERTY:
The director of emergency services or other officers of the emergency medical
services division or fire operations division shall have the power to cause the
removal of any property whenever it shall become necessary for the preservation
of life or of such property from fire or other imminent danger, or to prevent
further harm or injury to persons, the spreading of the fire, or injury and
damage to adjoining property. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-16: COMPENSATION:
Personnel of the department of emergency services and its subdivisions shall
receive such compensation from time to time as the president and board of
trustees may determine by resolution. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-17: CHARGES FOR AMBULANCE SERVICES:
The director of emergency services shall be responsible for collecting
reasonable charges for municipal ambulance services in accordance with the
following schedule until further action of the corporate authorities:
Service/ltem Rate:
   (A)   Ambulance Transport   $2,400.00
   (B)   Mileage per Transport   $.25/mile
   (C)   Public Aid Oxygen      $75.00
   (D)   Pulse Oximetry         $75.00
   (E)   Cardiac Monitor         $200.00
(Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000; amd. Ord. 2024-26, 12-2-2024)
2-2-18: PUBLIC SERVICES:
The director of emergency services shall be responsible for coordinating the
following public services to the residents of River Grove as directed by the
president and board of trustees:
   (A)   Basic first aid and CPR classes;
   (B)   Blood pressure screening;
   (C)   Hydrant flushing and maintenance program;
   (D)   EMT continuing education programs;
   (E)   Public education programs about emergency services;
   (F)   Other services deemed necessary and appropriate by the corporate
authorities. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-19: ASSISTANCE BY BYSTANDERS:
Every person who shall be present at a fire or other emergency scene shall be
subject and obedient to the orders of the director of emergency services and
such other officers of the emergency medical services division and fire
operations division, in extinguishing the fire, removing and protecting
property or life, or in rendering and delivering emergency medical and
ambulance services; and any person who refuses to obey such orders, shall
forfeit and pay a sum not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. It shall be lawful for the director
of emergency services or other officers in command of any fire company or
ambulance, to require the aid of any citizen, inhabitant or bystander, in
drawing or conveying any engine, fire or other emergency apparatus or equipment
to any fire or other emergency, and in working and using same while at a fire
or other emergency, and if an individual refuses or neglects to comply with
such requisition, the offender shall for every default forfeit and pay not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord.
2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-20: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONNEL OR EQUIPMENT:
Any person who wilfully hinders or attempts to hinder any officer, firefighter,
paramedic or other emergency service personnel in the performance of his or her
duty at an emergency, or who wilfully in any manner destroys, injures, or
defaces any engine, ambulance or other emergency equipment or apparatus
belonging to the village, or who shall tamper with or injure any fire hydrant
within the village, shall, for every such offense forfeit and pay a penalty of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-21: DRIVING OVER EQUIPMENT:
No motor vehicle, railroad car or other vehicle shall be driven over any
unprotected hose or other equipment of the fire operations division or
emergency medical services division, when laid down on any street or alley by
order of the director of emergency services or other proper officer of either
division, without the consent of the director of emergency services or other
officer in charge of such hose or equipment, and any person violating this
section shall be subject to a penalty of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2000-24,
12-21-2000)
2-2-22: POSSESSION OR USE OF KEYS:
Should any person have in his or her possession, or make or cause to be made,
any key or keys of any engine house or fire alarm box, or use or cause to be
used any such key, without the consent of the proper authority, every such
person shall be subject to a fine, not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-
21-2000)
2-2-23: UNLAWFUL USE OF ALARM DEVICES:
No person or persons except those connected with the management of the same,
shall activate any signal box or fire alarm unless it is to communicate an
alarm of fire or other emergency, or break, cut, deface, derange or in any
manner meddle or interfere with any signal box, fire alarm or fire alarm
wiring. Any person violating this section shall be subject to a penalty of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-24: FIRE HYDRANTS, DAMAGE TO:
No person shall in any manner obstruct the use of any fire hydrant, or have or
place any material in front thereof or within five feet (5') from either side
thereof. Any person violating this section shall be subject to a penalty of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense, and any and all material or property found as an obstruction
as aforesaid may be forthwith removed by the personnel of the emergency medical
services division and/or fire operations division, and at the risk, cost and
expense of the owner or claimant. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-25: IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER:
Any person not a member of the department of emergency services, or its
emergency medical services division or fire operations division who shall
impersonate a firefighter, paramedic or officer of either division at a fire or
other emergency scene, on going to or returning from a fire or other emergency,
by wearing clothing, a cap or badge or in any other way impersonating such
personnel, shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-26: REDEMPTION OF PROPERTY FROM FIRE OR EMERGENCY SCENE:
No person shall be entitled to take away or remove any property in the
possession of the department of emergency services saved from any fire or other
emergency scene, until sufficient proof of ownership is presented to the
satisfaction of the director of emergency services or other officer acting in
his or her stead. (Ord. 2000-24, 12-21-2000)
2-2-27: COMMISSIONER OF EMERGENCY SERVICES:
The office of commissioner of emergency services is created as an honorary
position, the holder of which need not be subject to active fire or emergency
medical services duty, though not disqualified therefrom. The commissioner
shall be appointed by the president with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. The appointment and the duration of the appointment shall be solely
at the will and pleasure of the president, who shall have the sole authority to
terminate the appointment at any time, with or without notice and with or
without reason. The commissioner shall:
   (A)   Participate at emergency incidents in a capacity not exceeding the
level of his or her documented or certified training and only under the
direction and authority of the incident command officer.
   (B)   Attend general meetings of the department of emergency services.
   (C)   Carry out and perform any special duties and services as requested and
described by the director of emergency services. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-18-2001)
2-2-28: EMERGENCY RESPONSE FEES:
   (A)   The village of River Grove hereby initiate and establish mitigation
rates for the delivery of emergency and nonemergency services rendered by the
River Grove fire department through its personnel, supplies and equipment to or
at the scene of emergency and nonemergency incidents as listed on exhibit A,
attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated by reference in its
entirety. The mitigation rates are based upon actual costs of the services and
that which is usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) as shown in exhibit A,
which includes, without limitation, any services, personnel, supplies, and
equipment; and with baselines established by addendum to this document.
   (B)   A claim shall be filed with the responsible party or parties through
their insurance carrier, or in some circumstances, billed directly.
   (C)   The corporate authorities shall make rules or regulations and from
time to time may amend, revoke, or add rules and regulations, not consistent
with this section, as they may deem necessary or expedient with respect to the
billing and collection of these mitigation rates. (Ord. 2012-01, 3-1-2012)
CHAPTER 3
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-3-1: Creation and Appointment
2-3-2: Health Officer
2-3-3: Salary
2-3-4: Duties and Powers
2-3-1: CREATION AND APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the Department of Health, an administrative Department
of the Village. The Department shall consist of a Health Commissioner who shall
be appointed by the President, by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, for a term of two (2) years.
2-3-2: HEALTH OFFICER:
There is hereby created the Office of Health Commissioner. He shall be the head
of the Department of Health and responsible to the Board of Trustees for the
efficient administration of this Department.
2-3-3: SALARY:
The Health Commissioner shall take the Oath of Office prescribed by Statute,
and shall receive as compensation such sum as shall from time to time be fixed
by the Board of Trustees.
2-3-4: DUTIES AND POWERS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner to execute and enforce all
Statutes of the State, provisions of this Code, and rules and regulations of
the Department of Health, relating to health, and to take any proper action
which may be necessary to the promotion and improvement of the public health
not inconsistent with said Statutes, rules and regulations. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 4
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Creation
2-4-2: Appointment
2-4-3: Term
2-4-4: Officers; Compensation
2-4-5: Powers; Duties
2-4-6: Official Plan
2-4-7: Records
2-4-1: CREATION:
A Plan Commission for the Village is hereby created. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 11-12-4
2-4-2: APPOINTMENT:
The Plan Commission shall consist of seven (7) members, including the President
of the Board of Trustees, and six (6) other members chosen from the Citizens of
said Village by the President with the approval of the Board of Trustees.
2-4-3: TERM:
Of the members appointed other than the President of the Board of Trustees, two
(2) shall be appointed for a term of one year, two (2) for a term of two (2)
years, and two (2) for a term of three (3) years. The terms of all members of
the Plan Commission thereafter appointed shall be three (3) years. All
vacancies occurring in such Plan Commission shall be filled by appointment for
the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as original
appointments.
2-4-4: OFFICERS; COMPENSATION:
As soon as possible after their appointment the members of said Plan Commission
shall organize by the election of a Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and
such other officers as may in their judgment be necessary. All members and
officers of said Plan Commission shall serve as such without compensation,
except that if the Village Board of Trustees deem advisable the Secretary may
receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to time by the Village
Board of Trustees and provided for in the appropriation ordinance. If said Plan
Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice or service, it
may do so upon authority from the Village Board of Trustees and appropriation
by the Village Board of Trustees therefor.
2-4-5: POWERS; DUTIES:
Said Plan Commission shall have the power:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees a comprehensive plan
of public improvements looking to the present and future development of the
Village, which shall be known as the Official Plan of River Grove. Such plan
shall include reasonable requirements in reference to streets, alleys, and
public grounds in unsubdivided lands within the corporate limits of the Village
and in contiguous territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-
half miles (11/2) from such limits, and not included in any City, Village or
incorporated town. Such requirements to be effective whenever such lands shall
be subdivided after the adoption of such plan.
   (B)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time
such changes in the plan as may be deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees or
by the Plan Commission, provided, however, that such changes shall not affect
the general principles of the plan as adopted.
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time,
plans for specific improvements in pursuance of such official plan.
   (D)   To give aid to the officials of the Village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan.
   (E)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
Chapter and by State law and as may be conferred by the Board of Trustees.
2-4-6: OFFICIAL PLAN:
No map or plat of any subdivision presented for record, affecting land within
the corporate limits of the Village, and in contiguous territory outside of and
distant not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits, and not
included in any city, Village or incorporated town, after the adoption of the
Official Plan, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision thereon shown, shall provide for streets, alleys and public grounds
in conformity with any requirements applicable thereto, on such Official Plan.
2-4-7: RECORDS:
The Plan Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings which shall
be open to the inspection of the Board of Trustees at all times. (Rev. Ord.
1939)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Creation
2-5-2: Appointment; Term
2-5-3: Chairman
2-5-4: Duties
2-5-5: Removal
2-5-6: Compensation
2-5-1: CREATION:
Pursuant to the provisions of the zoning chapter a board of appeals consisting
of seven (7) members is hereby created with all the powers and duties as
provided in said chapter and under "An Act to confer certain additional powers
upon City Councils in cities and Presidents and Boards of Trustees in Villages
and incorporated towns, concerning buildings and structures, the intensity of
use of lot areas, the classifications of trades, industries, buildings and
structures, with respect to the location and regulation, the creation of
districts of different classes and the establishment or regulations and
restrictions applicable thereto; the establishment of Boards of Appeals and the
review of decisions of Boards by the Court", approved June 1921, in force July
1, 1921, and all amendments thereto. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
2-5-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The members of said board of appeals shall be appointed for the following
terms:
   One for one year;
   One for two (2) years;
   One for three (3) years;
   One for four (4) years;
   One for five (5) years;
   One for six (6) years;
   One for seven (7) years;
and the successor to each member so appointed shall be appointed for a term of
five (5) years. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
2-5-3: CHAIRMAN:
One of the appointed members of said board of appeals shall be designated
chairman by the president and board of trustees and shall have the powers
vested by law in the chairman of the board of appeals. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
2-5-4: DUTIES:
The board of appeals shall have such powers and duties as set forth in title VI
of this code and any amendments thereto, and such other duties as provided by
the laws of the state. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
2-5-5: REMOVAL:
The president and board of trustees shall have the power to remove any member
of the board of appeals for cause after public hearing. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
2-5-6: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the zoning board of appeals shall receive as compensation for
the member's services the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each complete
hearing attended by the member. (Ord. 2000-20, 12-7-2000)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Creation; Functions; Duties
2-6-2: Appointment
2-6-3: Secretary
2-6-1: CREATION; FUNCTIONS; DUTIES:
There is hereby created a Board of Local Improvements in and for the Village of
River Grove, County of Cook and State of Illinois, to do and perform all the
duties and functions incumbent upon, and exercise all the rights of a Board of
Local Improvements, all as provided in and by State law.
2-6-2: APPOINTMENT:
The President and members of the Board of Trustees, be and they are hereby
designated and appointed members of the Board of Local Improvements and the
said Trustees with the President, shall constitute the Board of Local
Improvements.
2-6-3: SECRETARY:
There shall be some competent person designated by the members of the Board of
Local Improvements, to act as Secretary of said Board of Local Improvements.
(Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC LIBRARY
(Rep. by Ord. 1989-17, 8-17-1989)
CHAPTER 8
HISTORICAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Commission Created
2-8-2: Membership
2-8-3: Officers
2-8-4: Meetings
2-8-5: Staff and Financial Support
2-8-6: Volunteers
2-8-7: Purpose and Duties of Commission
2-8-8: Aid of Village Departments
2-8-9: Types of Historical Landmarks and Areas to be Included
2-8-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the Historical Commission, an administrative body of
the Village. The Historical Commission may also be referred to as the Historic
Landmark Commission.
2-8-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The Commission shall consist of nine qualified persons, competent and informed
on historical, architectural and cultural traditions of the community. The
members of the Commission shall be appointed by the President, subject to
confirmation by a majority of the Board of Trustees. Of the original members,
two (2) shall be appointed for one year, two (2) for two (2) years, two (2) for
three (3) years, two (2) for four (4) years and one for five (5) years, and
thereafter members shall serve for five (5) year staggered terms. Members shall
be exempt from any provisions of any other ordinances of the Village limiting
the number of terms that a member of a board or commission may hold. A member
of the Commission may serve for as many succeeding terms as such member may be
appointed to by the President with the approval of the Board of Trustees.
Members of the Commission shall serve without pay, but shall have their
expenses paid by the Village in the manner provided by ordinance.
2-8-3: OFFICERS:
The Commission shall elect from among its members a chairman, a vice-chairman
and a secretary. These officers shall serve for such term of office as shall be
designated by the Commission. No officer's term of office shall be shortened
during that officer's term of office. The chairman shall preside at meetings,
and the vice-chairman shall preside in the absence of the chairman.
2-8-4: MEETINGS:
All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public. The Commission may
adopt rules of order for the transaction of its business, provided that the
Commission shall comply with all applicable state laws and Village ordinances
relating to open meetings. The Commission shall permit discussion of all
matters, by any member of the public present at any meeting. No meetings of the
Commission shall be closed to the public, and no parts of any meetings of the
Commission shall be closed to the public. Designations such as "committee of
the whole meeting," or "discussion session" shall not permit a meeting to be
closed. It is the privilege and the right of the public to know how the
public's business is being conducted.
2-8-5: STAFF AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT:
The Commission shall have such staff as shall from time to time be assigned to
the Commission by the corporate authorities. The corporate authorities may
allocate funds to be used for the expenses of the Historical Commission.
2-8-6: VOLUNTEERS:
The Historical Commission shall use volunteers to the maximum extent possible,
to obtain information, to disseminate information, to observe historic
buildings and historic neighborhoods, and to perform all of the functions of
the Commission in the most effective way possible.
2-8-7: PURPOSE AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
The Historical Commission shall have the following purposes and duties:
   (A)   The Historical Commission shall perform all of the functions assigned
by Federal law, State law or Village ordinances to the Historical Commission or
to the Historic Landmarks Commission.
   (B)   The Historical Commission shall survey and study the entire Village,
and shall from time to time obtain suggestions from the public by available
means, including but not limited to public meetings or public hearings,
requests for written suggestions, oral surveys and written surveys.
   (C)   The Historical Commission shall list all buildings in the Village
having historical significance. The Historical Commission shall list all
neighborhoods in the Village having historical significance.
   (D)   The Historical Commission shall undertake research, inspection and
investigation of sites, buildings and neighborhoods.
   (E)   The Historical Commission shall maintain current lists of all
historical landmarks, buildings, sites and neighborhoods. Such lists shall
contain a brief description of the historical site or area and shall list the
reasons for its inclusion in the list of historical places.
   (F)   The Historical Commission shall cause drawings, photographs,
descriptions and other appropriate documentation to be made concerning all
areas and buildings included in the list.
   (G)   The Historical Commission shall inform the owners, neighbors, and
occupants or tenants in any building or area on the list of its inclusion on
the list. The Historical Commission shall also inform the corporate
authorities. The Historical Commission shall take all steps necessary to gain
State and Federal recognition for such areas. The Historical Commission shall
present recommendations to the Board of Trustees on proposed ordinances and on
proposed steps to preserve, protect and restore all such historic areas,
historic buildings, historic landmarks and the like.
2-8-8: AID OF VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS:
All Village departments, offices, boards and commissions are authorized and
directed to cooperate with the Historical Commission in carrying out its
duties. The Building Inspector and the Health Officer shall provide copies of
all notices, orders and permits respecting any sites, buildings, structures and
areas appearing in the list of historic landmarks or historic areas.
2-8-9: TYPES OF HISTORICAL LANDMARKS AND AREAS TO BE INCLUDED:
As used in this Chapter, a landmark, building, or neighborhood shall be
considered to be of historical significance and subject to the terms of this
Chapter, if such area, building or site has particular historical,
architectural or cultural significance in the community, if the building or
site or area is particularly identified with any historic personage or historic
event, if a building has significance as a representative of a period style of
architecture, and hence is valuable for study, if a building is a notable work
of a master builder, designer or architect whose individual genius influenced
his era, or if the building has significance for any reasons of local, State or
national history. (Ord. 1988-16, 10-6-88)
CHAPTER 9
SAFETY REVIEW COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-9-1: Commission Created
2-9-2: Membership
2-9-3: Compensation
2-9-4: Meetings
2-9-5: Duties
2-9-6: Power And Authority
2-9-7: Investigations
2-9-8: Hearings; Findings; Decision
2-9-9: Discipline Authorized
2-9-10: Employment Records
2-9-11: Administrative Review
2-9-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the Safety Review Commission, an administrative body of
the Village. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-1997)
2-9-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The Commission shall consist of three (3) members who shall be appointed by the
President by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees and shall serve at
their pleasure. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-1997)
2-9-3: COMPENSATION:
Members shall receive for their service such compensation as may, from time to
time, be fixed by the Corporate Authorities. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-1997)
2-9-4: MEETINGS:
All meetings, hearings and deliberations of the Commission shall be conducted
in compliance with applicable statutes and ordinances. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-1997)
2-9-5: DUTIES:
It shall be the function of the Commission to investigate all incidents
involving damage to or misuse of Municipal property or equipment and the
Village personnel responsible therefor or otherwise connected therewith; to
make pertinent findings of fact and recommendations appropriate to the
circumstances, including disciplinary action when warranted. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-
6-1997)
2-9-6: POWER AND AUTHORITY:
The Commission shall have the authority to investigate, in such manner as it
deems appropriate, all matters within its purview brought to its attention,
including, but not limited to, select officers, conduct hearings, compel the
attendance of witnesses, adopt rules and regulations governing its operations
and procedures, all in manner and form as provided by law and subject to the
approval of the Corporate Authorities. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-1997)
2-9-7: INVESTIGATIONS:
Investigations shall proceed as expeditiously as possible and shall consider,
with respect to each incident: the person involved; the degree, if any, of
culpability of each; the employment records of each, as pertains to similar
incidents; any factors in aggravation or mitigation; the seriousness of the
incident; and other relevant factors. All Village officers and personnel shall
cooperate with members of the Commission in connection with investigations
herein authorized. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-1997)
2-9-8: HEARINGS; FINDINGS; DECISION:
All hearings shall be conducted in manner and form, as near as may be, to
hearings before administrative tribunals. Findings and decision, including any
recommendation, shall be filed with the Corporate Authorities within fourteen
(14) days thereafter. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-1997)
2-9-9: DISCIPLINE AUTHORIZED:
The Commission is empowered, should it deem such action appropriate, to impose
discipline, not to exceed a five (5) day suspension without pay. Notice of such
action shall be directed to the supervisor of the individual concerned for
implementation. If disciplinary action other than is authorized to the
Commission is deemed necessary, such finding shall be contained in the
recommendation to be given to the Corporate Authorities. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-
1997)
2-9-10: EMPLOYMENT RECORDS:
The findings and decision of the Commission shall be made a part of the
employment records of each individual concerned. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-6-1997)
2-9-11: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
The provisions of the Administrative Review Law and all amendments and
modifications thereof and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to
and govern all proceedings for judicial review of final administrative
decisions of the Commission herein. The term administrative decision is defined
in 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101, 1992, as amended. (Ord. 1997-02, 2-
6-1997)
CHAPTER 10
EMERGENCY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
2-10-1: Established
2-10-2: Definitions
2-10-3: Department Executive/Coordinator
2-10-4: Members
2-10-5: Functions; Emergency Operations Plan
2-10-6: Corporate Powers During Disaster
2-10-7: Exercises/Simulated Disasters
2-10-8: Local Disaster Declarations
2-10-9: Testing Of Disaster Warning Devices
2-10-10: Mutual Aid Agreements
2-10-11: Authority To Accept Services, Gifts, Grants Or Loans
2-10-12: Personnel And Oath
2-10-13: Political Activities Prohibited
2-10-14: Interim Successors Of Local Offices
2-10-15: Powers Of Interim Successors
2-10-16: Formalities Of Taking Interim Office
2-10-17: Limitations On Power
2-10-18: Removal Of Designees
2-10-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an emergency and disaster management department
("EDMD"), as authorized by the Illinois emergency management agency act, 20
Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305/1 et seq. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following words and terms have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ATTACK: Any attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the United States
causing, or which may cause, substantial damage or injury to civilian property
or persons in the United States in any manner by sabotage or by the use of
bombs, missiles, shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical, bacteriological
or biological means or other weapons or processes.
COORDINATOR: The director of emergency services of the village with the duty of
coordinating the emergency and disaster management program of this village.
DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural, manmade or technological
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, explosion,
epidemic, wind, storm, hazardous materials spill or other water contamination
requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air
contamination, blight, extended periods of severe and inclement weather,
drought, infestation, critical shortages of essential fuels and energy,
explosion, riot, hostile military or paramilitary action, public health
emergencies, or acts of domestic terrorism.
DISASTER AREA: The area directly affected by or threatened with a disaster.
EMERGENCY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT: The department established by
this chapter to coordinate the emergency management program within the village
with private organizations, other political subdivisions, the state and federal
governments.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated pursuant to this chapter, in
the event the officer is unavailable, to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties of an office until a successor is appointed or elected and qualified as
may be provided by the constitution, statutes, charters and ordinances or until
the lawful incumbent is able to resume the exercise of the powers and discharge
the duties of the office.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The efforts of this village to develop, plan, analyze,
conduct, provide, implement and maintain programs for disaster mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: The written plan of the village describing the
organization, mission, and functions of this local government and supporting
services for responding to and recovering from disasters.
EMERGENCY SERVICES: The coordination of functions by the village, other than
functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, as may be
necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury and
damage resulting from any natural or technological causes. These functions
include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, emergency
aviation services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning
services, communications, radiological, chemical and other special weapons
defense, evacuation of persons from stricken or threatened areas, emergency
assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility
services and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all
other activities necessary or incidental to protecting life or property.
EXERCISE: A planned event realistically simulating a disaster, conducted for
the purpose of evaluating the village's coordinated emergency management
capabilities, including, but not limited to, testing the emergency operations
plan.
ILLINOIS EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY: The agency established by this Illinois
emergency management act and the state emergency response commission.
OFFICE: Includes all elected and appointed offices of the village, the powers
and duties of which are defined by state and federal laws and ordinances.
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER: The president of the village, or in his or her
absence or disability, the interim successor.
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY: An occurrence or imminent threat of an illness or
health condition that:
   (A)   Is believed to be caused by any of the following:
      1.   Bioterrorism;
      2.   The appearance of a novel or previously controlled or eradicated
infectious agent or biological toxin;
      3.   A natural disaster;
      4.   A chemical attack or accidental release; or
      5.   A nuclear attack or accident; and
   (B)   Poses a high probability of any of the following harms:
      1.   A large number of deaths in the affected population;
      2.   A large number of serious or long term disabilities in the affected
population; or
      3.   Widespread exposure to an infectious or toxic agent that poses a
significant risk of substantial future harm to a large number of people in the
affected population.
UNAVAILABLE: Either that a vacancy in office exists and there is no deputy
authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of the
office, or that the lawful incumbent of the office (including any deputy
exercising the powers and discharging the duties of an office because of a
vacancy) and his duly authorized deputy are absent or unable to exercise the
powers and discharge the duties of the office. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-3: DEPARTMENT EXECUTIVE/COORDINATOR:
The director of emergency services, as provided for in chapter 2 of this title,
shall act as the executive and coordinator of the EDMD created hereunder, and
as such shall:
   (A)   Annually notify the Illinois emergency management agency of the manner
in which the village is providing or securing emergency management, and furnish
additional information relating thereto as the Illinois emergency management
agency requires.
   (B)   Act as the liaison officer of the village to facilitate the
cooperation and protection of the village with the emergency services and
disaster agencies or departments of the state and federal governments or other
political subdivisions of this state.
   (C)   Act as the coordinator of the village's EDMD and emergency operation
plan as provided for herein.
   (D)   Have direct responsibility for and control of the organization,
administration, training, and operation of the EDMD, subject to the direction
and control of the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-4: MEMBERS:
In addition to the director of emergency services, the following officers shall
also be members of the EDMD: a) the chief of police; b) the director of public
works; c) the building commissioner; and d) the chair of the emergency
telephone system board. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-5: FUNCTIONS; EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN:
The emergency and disaster management department shall:
   (A)   Cause to be prepared a comprehensive plan and program for the
emergency management of this village, which plan and program shall be
integrated into and coordinated with emergency management plans and programs of
the state and federal governments and whenever possible and which plan and
program may include:
      1.   Mitigation of injury and damage caused by disaster.
      2.   Prompt and effective response to disaster.
      3.   Emergency relief.
      4.   Identification of areas particularly vulnerable to disasters.
      5.   Recommendations for zoning, building, and other land use controls,
safety measures for securing permanent structures and other mitigation measures
designed to eliminate or reduce disasters or their impact.
      6.   Procedures for the erection or other construction of temporary works
designed to mitigate danger, damage or loss from flood, or other disaster.
      7.   Organization of village personnel and chains of command.
      8.   Coordination of federal, state, and other political subdivision
emergency management activities.
The emergency operations plan (EOP) for the village shall comply with planning,
review, and approval standards promulgated by the Illinois emergency management
agency.
   (B)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form a
clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all
departments and officials and of the disaster chain of command.
   (C)   Coordinate and perform emergency management functions within the
territorial limits of the village and as prescribed in and by the state
emergency operations plan, and programs, orders, rules and regulations as may
be promulgated by the Illinois emergency management agency.
   (D)   Conduct such functions outside of those territorial limits as may be
required under mutual aid agreements and compacts as the village may enter into
under subparagraph (5) of paragraph (c) of section 6 of the Illinois emergency
management agency act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305/6(c)(5).
   (E)   Cooperate with local governments, the state, the federal government
and any public or private agency or entity in achieving any purpose of this
chapter and in implementing emergency management programs for mitigation,
preparedness, response, and recovery.
   (F)   Coordinate with the Illinois department of public health with respect
to planning for and responding to public health emergencies.
   (G)   Coordinate exercises in accordance with state rules and requirements
for emergency management exercises, including, but not limited to, exercises of
the emergency operations plans.
   (H)   Determine requirements of the village for food, clothing, and other
necessities in the event of a disaster.
   (I)   Establish a register of persons with types of emergency management
training and skills in mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery.
   (J)   Establish a register of government and private response resources
available for use in a disaster.
   (K)   Disseminate all information, completely and without delay, on water
levels for rivers and streams and any other data pertaining to potential
flooding supplied by the Illinois division of water resources within the
department of natural resources to the maximum extent possible.
   (L)   Develop and implement a community outreach program to promote
awareness among the parents and children of the village of child abduction
prevention and response.
   (M)   In accordance with the EOP, institute training programs and public
information programs. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-6: CORPORATE POWERS DURING DISASTER:
If a disaster occurs, the village may exercise the powers vested under the
Illinois emergency management act, including suspension of the procedures and
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public
work, entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase of supplies and
materials, and the appropriation, expenditure, and disposition of public funds
and property. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-7: EXERCISES/SIMULATED DISASTERS:
Prior to conducting an exercise, the president or director of emergency
services shall provide area media with written notification of any exercise.
The notification shall indicate that information relating to the exercise shall
not be released to the public until the commencement of the exercise. The
notification shall also contain a request that the notice be so posted to
ensure that all relevant media personnel are advised of the exercise before it
begins. During the conduct of an exercise, all messages, two-way radio
communications, briefings, status reports, news releases, and other oral or
written communications shall begin and end with the following statement: "This
is an exercise message". (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-8: LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATIONS:
   (A)   A local disaster may be declared only by the president or his or her
interim emergency successor. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period
in excess of seven (7) days except by or with the consent of the board of
trustees. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a
local disaster shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed
promptly with the village clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the EOP
of the village and to authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance
thereunder. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-9: TESTING OF DISASTER WARNING DEVICES:
The testing of disaster devices shall be held only on the first Tuesday of each
month at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or during exercises that are specifically and
expressly approved in advance by the Illinois emergency management agency.
(Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-10: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The village, through its EDMD, may enter mutual aid arrangements with other
political subdivisions within this state for reciprocal disaster response and
recovery assistance in case a disaster is too great to be dealt with
unassisted. A mutual aid agreement shall not, however, be effective unless and
until approved by the president and board of trustees. The agreements shall be
consistent with the state emergency operations plan and state emergency
management program, and in the event of a disaster, it shall be the duty of the
EDMD to render assistance in accordance with the provisions of any approved
mutual aid agreement. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-11: AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS:
Whenever the federal government or any agency or officer thereof or whenever
any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the village services, equipment,
supplies, materials, or funds by way of gift or grant, for purposes of
emergency management, the village, acting through the president, may accept
such offer and upon such acceptance the president may authorize any officer or
department director to receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials,
or funds on behalf of the village. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-12: PERSONNEL AND OATH:
Each person, whether compensated or noncompensated, who is appointed to serve
in any capacity in the emergency and disaster management department, shall,
before entering upon his or her duties, take an oath, in writing, before the
director, which oath shall be filed with the director and shall be
substantially as follows:
I,                                , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the Village of River Grove, I
will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence.
(Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-13: POLITICAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED:
No individual of the EDMD shall be employed directly or indirectly by any
person or persons for political purposes. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-14: INTERIM SUCCESSORS OF LOCAL OFFICES:
Pursuant to section 6 of the emergency interim executive successors act, there
is hereby provided for up to seven (7) emergency interim successors to various
offices of the village:
Title/Office Of President  Emergency Interim Successor
Title/Office Of President              Emergency Interim Successor
President                              Director of emergency services
Director of emergency services         Chief of police
Chief of police                        Director of public works
Director of public works               Director of economic development
Director of economic development       Senior police officer in charge
Senior police officer in charge        Deputy director of emergency services
Deputy director of emergency services
Title/Office Of Director
Of Emergency Services                  Emergency Interim Successor
Director of emergency services         Deputy director of emergency services
Deputy director of emergency services  EMS coordinator
EMS coordinator                        Deputy fire chief
Title/Office Of Police                 Emergency Interim Successor
Police chief                           Senior police officer in charge
Senior police officer in charge        Senior police sergeant
Title/Office Of
Director Of Public Works               Emergency Interim Successor
Director of public works               Public works superintendent
Public works superintendent            Water superintendent
 
(Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004; amd. Ord. 2007-11, 6-21-2007, eff. 7-1-2007)
2-10-15: POWERS OF INTERIM SUCCESSORS:
Emergency interim successors shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties
of the office to which designated until such time as a vacancy which may exist
shall be filled in accordance with law; or until the officer, or his deputy or
a preceding emergency interim successor, again becomes available to exercise
the powers and discharge the duties of his office. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-16: FORMALITIES OF TAKING INTERIM OFFICE:
At the time of their designation, emergency interim successors shall take such
oath as may be required for them to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties of the office to which they may succeed. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, no person, as a prerequisite to the exercise of the powers or
discharge of the duties of an office to which he succeeds, shall be required to
comply with any other provision of law relative to taking office. (Ord. 2004-
12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-17: LIMITATIONS ON POWER:
Officials authorized to act pursuant to this chapter and emergency interim
successors are empowered to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of an
office as herein authorized only during a disaster within the village. (Ord.
2004-12, 5-20-2004)
2-10-18: REMOVAL OF DESIGNEES:
Until such time as the persons designated as emergency interim successors are
authorized to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of an office in
accordance with this chapter, such persons shall serve in their designated
capacities at the pleasure of the president and board of trustees and may be
removed or replaced by the president and board of trustees at any time, with or
without cause. (Ord. 2004-12, 5-20-2004)
CHAPTER 11
VETERANS' MEMORIAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-11-1: Commission Created
2-11-2: Duties And Responsibilities
2-11-3: Members, Appointment And Term Of Office
2-11-4: Organization And Meetings
2-11-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a Veterans' Memorial Commission. (Ord. 2023-20, 10-5-
2023)
2-11-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Veterans' Memorial Commission to advise
the Board of Trustees on issues regarding the Village of River Grove Veterans'
Memorial. The final decision on all Veterans' Memorial issues rests with the
Village Board.
   (B)   The Veterans' Memorial Commission shall have the following specific
duties and responsibilities:
      1.   Serve in a citizens' advisory capacity to the Village President and
Board of Trustees.
      2.   Serve as a liaison to the Village residents and receive public input
regarding issues involving the Veterans' Memorial.
      3.   Planning and implementing Memorial Day and Veterans' Day activities
and public education programs to honor our country's servicemen and
servicewomen and any other ceremonial activities deemed appropriate by the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
      4.   Develop and deliver to the Village Board an annual plan no later
than October 1 of each year outlining fundraising recommendations for the
memorial. The Village Board shall direct and implement any aspects of the plan.
The plan should include ideas to encourage citizens, organizations, and
companies to purchase pavers and plaques and to donate funds for the
construction and maintenance of the River Grove Veterans' Memorial. The
Commission shall participate in activities associated with the implementation
of the plan.
C.   The commission shall hold meetings and establish rules as are necessary to
carry out their duties and responsibilities. (Ord. 2023-20, 10-5-2023)
2-11-3: MEMBERS, APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF OFFICE:
   (A)   The Veterans' Memorial Commission shall be comprised of five (5)
members who shall be known as commissioners.
   (B)   The commissioners shall be appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The term of the commissioners
shall be for a one-year period beginning on January 1 and ending on December
31. One of the commissioners shall be appointed as chairperson by the Village
President, who shall preside at meetings of the Commission. The Commissioners
shall include:
      1.   The Village Comptroller or a member of the Finance Department as
recommended by the Village President;
      2.   The Director of Public Works or a member of the Public Works
Department as recommended by the Village President;
      3.   A civilian resident or business owner as recommended by the Village
President;
      4.   A River Grove resident who is a member of the local American Legion
Post 335 and/or Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 5979; and
      5.   A veteran as recommended by the Village President who may or may not
be a current resident of the Village of River Grove. (Ord. 2023-20, 10-5-2023)
2-11-4: ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
   (A)   The Commission shall hold meetings as may be necessary, and these
meetings shall be held in the Village Hall or in some other suitable place. All
meetings shall comply with the Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect a recording secretary who shall be
responsible for taking minutes of meetings, preparing agendas and other duties
as prescribed by the Commission. The Commission shall establish rules as are
necessary to carry out their duties and responsibilities.
   (C)   The Commission shall elect from among its members a vice-chairperson
who shall preside in the absence of the chairperson.
   (D)   The Commission shall have such staff as shall from time to time be
assigned to the Commission by the Corporate Authorities. The Corporate
Authorities may allocate funds to be used for the expenses of the Veterans'
Commission.
   (E)   The Veterans' Memorial Commission shall use volunteers to the maximum
extent possible, to obtain information, to disseminate information, and to
perform the functions of the Commission in the most effective way possible.
(Ord. 2023-20, 10-5-2023)
TITLE III
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Construction
3-1-2: Grade
3-1-3: Relaying
3-1-4: Repairing
3-1-5: Laying Walks Contrary to Grade
3-1-6: No Part of Walks to be Taken for Private Use
3-1-7: No Walks to be Beyond Established Width
3-1-8: Covers for Coal Holes
3-1-9: Liability of Property Owner for Damage Resulting from Defective Coal
Holes
3-1-10: Liability of Occupant
3-1-11: Removal of Covers
3-1-12: Duty of Owners or Occupants to Raise, Lower or Repair
3-1-13: No Goods to be Stored on Walks
3-1-14: Awnings
3-1-15: Cellar Doors
3-1-16: Merchandise on Walks
3-1-17: Driving or Riding on Walks
3-1-18: Crosswalks; Obstructing
3-1-19: Running Wheels or Sawing Wood on Walks
3-1-20: Carts or Carriages on Walks
3-1-21: Person Injuring Walks to Repair Same
3-1-22: Removal of Obstruction by Engineer or Other Officer
3-1-23: Policemen to Report Defects
3-1-24: Sidewalk To Be Installed or Protected; Deposit
3-1-1: CONSTRUCTION:
All sidewalks which may be ordered by the Board of Trustees shall be cement and
shall be constructed as follows:
   (A)   Said sidewalks shall be five feet (5') and four inches (4") in width,
and the upper surface thereon when completed shall have a slope of one-fourth
of an inch (1/4") to the foot toward the center of the street or avenue on
which such sidewalk is laid.
   (B)   The top surface of said sidewalk nearest to the lot line, shall when
completed, to six inches (6") above the established grade of the street, which
is the top curb line.
   (C)   The inside or edge of said sidewalk nearest the lot line, when
completed, shall be at a distance of one foot (1') from the lot line of the lot
or lots in front of or alongside of which such sidewalk is constructed.
   (D)   A sub-foundation, the full width of the sidewalk, shall first be
prepared by cutting down or filling up the natural surface of the ground to a
point twelve inches (12") below what will be the top surface of the sidewalk
when completed; such filling shall be of earth in sufficient quantity so that
after being flooded and tamped the top of the sub-foundation as thus prepared
shall be twelve inches (12") below the top surface of said walk when completed
in case excavation shall be necessary to bring the top of such sub-foundation
to the point above specified, then such excavation shall be so made that the
top of such sub-foundation shall be twelve inches (12") below the top surface
of said sidewalk when completed.
   (E)   Upon such sub-foundation shall next be laid and placed cinders of the
kind and character above specified; such cinders shall be flooded and
thoroughly tamped and sufficient cinders shall be used so that after being so
flooded and tamped the cinder bed above such sub-foundation shall be eight (8)
inches in thickness, and the full width of the walk.
   (F)   Upon the cinder bed thus formed shall be placed a layer of concrete
three inches (3") in thickness, consisting of four parts of limestone broken to
pass through a ring one inch in diameter, two, parts of clean torpedo sand and
one part of Portland Cement; the sand and cement shall be mixed dry on a clean
bed, then the broken stone shall be wet and shall be added to the cement and
sand so mixed dry as aforesaid; the whole mass shall then be thoroughly mixed,
then enough water shall be added to thoroughly wet the whole mixture, but in
such quantities that after the whole shall be thoroughly mixed the water will
not show on the surface of the mixture until it is rammed. After the water has
been added and the mass thoroughly mixed it shall at once be laid in the work
and rammed until free water flushes to the surface when the wearing surface
shall be laid upon it at once before the base can set.
   (G)   Such wearing surface or finishing layer of said concrete walk shall be
one inch (1") in thickness and shall consist of one part of clean torpedo sand
and one part of Portland cement, which shall be thoroughly mixed when wet and
immediately laid and troweled to a smooth finish before it has begun to set.
After the walk has been completed the same shall be kept covered for a period
of three (3) days to prevent injury.
   (H)   All cement used in construction of this walk shall be Portland cement
and shall stand a tensile strength per square inch of neat cement on seven
days' test of five hundred and fifty (550) pounds. All material that enters
into the construction of such sidewalk shall be first quality.
All stone used in the construction of said sidewalk shall be of the best
quality of blue limestone, uniform in color and free from dirt.
All sand used shall be clean washed torpedo sand of first quality.
All cinders shall be free from ashes. No cement, mortar or concrete shall be
used after it has begun to set.
3-1-2: GRADE:
The grade for sidewalks shall be established by the Board of Trustees as soon
as is practicable, but in all cases where not so established the grade for new
sidewalks shall be that fixed by the Engineer from time to time. It shall be
the duty of said Engineer when any new sidewalk is ordered to be laid to
furnish such grade to owners of property desiring to build their portions of
sidewalk, upon their application to him, and to superintend the construction of
sidewalks so far as may be necessary to compel their construction on the grade
established and furnished as aforesaid, and of the materials and in the manner
prescribed in this Chapter and orders concerning such sidewalks and of the
material prescribed therefor.
If any person shall build or attempt to build any sidewalk or portion thereof,
and fail, neglect or refuse in so doing to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter and orders concerning such sidewalk, the said Engineer shall direct
such sidewalk or portion thereof, as the case may be, to be relaid, and in case
of the failure, neglect or refusal of the person so directed to immediately
comply with such direction, the said Engineer shall report to the Board of
Trustees the facts, and in the same manner as if such sidewalk or portion
thereof had not been laid.
3-1-3: RELAYING:
Whenever any sidewalk or portion thereof shall be required or directed to be
relaid, the Engineer shall give notice thereof to the owners of the property
interested. Whenever any sidewalk shall be ordered by said Board of Trustees to
be renewed, and such renewal is to be made by special assessment or by special
taxation, the provisions of this Chapter shall apply, in so far as the same may
be applicable.
3-1-4: REPAIRING:
Whenever any sidewalk shall become broken or need ordinary repairs, the
Engineer shall cause the same to be repaired without delay. He shall keep an
accurate account of the expense of such repairs, and shall report the same to
the Board of Trustees who shall audit the same, if approved, to be paid out of
the appropriate fund in the Treasury.
3-1-5: LAYING WALKS CONTRARY TO GRADE:
If any person shall build, renew, lay or relay, or attempt to build, renew, lay
or relay, or knowingly assist in so doing, any sidewalk or portion thereof,
ordered by the said Board of Trustees to be constructed or renewed, or by
Engineer, directed to be relaid, where no grade has been established, without
first obtaining a grade thereof, from the said Engineer, or upon a grade
contrary to that established therefor by said Board of Trustees or directed by
said Engineer, or in a manner contrary to any of the provisions of this Chapter
or of the particular provisions of this Code relating to such sidewalk, such
persons so offending shall be fined in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for
every such offense, and in a like sum for every day he or she shall fail,
neglect, or refuse to relay, renew or construct such sidewalk, or portions
thereof in conformity with said provisions.
3-1-6: NO PART OF WALKS TO BE TAKEN FOR PRIVATE USE:
No part of said sidewalk shall be taken for private use, by lowering or cutting
down the same next to the building, or railing off the same by any wooden or
iron railing, or by shutting off the public from passing along and over the
same, and said sidewalks shall not be raised up next to the building, by
constructing a platform or platforms on the same, of either wood, iron or
stone, but said sidewalks shall be built flush up to the building on a uniform
grade as herein provided. Entrances to areas and basements and flights of
stairs or steps may be made which shall extend into or upon the sidewalk more
than two feet next to the building, and the width of the steps, stairs or
entrances to areas and basements inside walks shall not be more than four feet.
Said steps, stairs or entrances shall be securely protected, and no open space
next to the building other than entrance ways to areas and basements forming a
portion of the sidewalks shall be allowed.
3-1-7: NO WALKS TO BE BEYOND ESTABLISHED WIDTH:
No person shall extend or build any sidewalk beyond the established width, and
on all streets where courts or open spaces are allowed for planting trees, or
for grass plats, the same shall not be covered with plank, except such parts
and portions of said space as may be allowed to be used for coal vault, or for
passage ways to carriage steps.
3-1-8: COVERS FOR COAL HOLES:
Every opening in any vault or coal hole or aperture in the sidewalk over said
coal hole or vault shall be covered with a substantial iron plate with a rough
surface to prevent accidents, and the entire construction of said coal holes
and vaults shall be subject to the directions and supervision of the Engineer
or such other person as the Board of Trustees may designate.
3-1-9: LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM DEFECTIVE COAL
HOLES:
The owner and tenant of the abutting estate, in front of which any coal hole or
vault is permitted to be constructed shall be held responsible to the Village
for any and all damages to persons or property in consequence of any defect in
the construction of such vault or coal hole, or for allowing the same, or any
portion thereof to remain out of repair, and such owner and tenant shall be
required to keep the said vaults or coal hole, its walls and coverings in good
order at all times.
3-1-10: LIABILITY OF OCCUPANT:
The occupant of any estate abutting on such vault and coal hole shall be held
responsible to the Village for any and all damages occasioned to persons or
properly in consequence of the aperture in the sidewalk being left exposed or
uncovered, or from the covering thereof being left insecure or unfastened, and
said occupant shall be required to keep such coal or vault cover in good order,
and safe to public travel over the same.
3-1-11: REMOVAL OF COVERS:
No person shall remove or insecurely fix, or cause to procure or suffer or
permit to be removed or to be insecurely fixed, so that the same can be moved
in its bed, any grate or covering of any coal hole, vault or chute under any
street, sidewalk or other public place, under penalty of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) for each offense.
Provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the owner or occupant of
the building with which it shall be connected from removing such grate or
covering for the proper purpose of such coal hole, vault or chute, provided he
enclose such opening or aperture, and keep the same enclosed while such grate
or covering shall be removed, with a strong box or curb at least two feet high,
firmly and securely made. And provided further, that he shall not remove such
grate or covering until sunrise of any day and shall replace such grate before
one-half (1/2) hour after sunset.
3-1-12: DUTY OF OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS TO RAISE, LOWER OR REPAIR:
Whenever the owner or occupant of any lot in the Village shall be notified by
the Engineer to raise, lower, repair or relay any sidewalk in front of,
adjacent to, or upon any premises owned or occupied by him, it shall be the
duty of such owner or occupant to cause the said improvement to be made in the
manner and within the time prescribed by the said Engineer. If any such owner
or occupant shall neglect or refuse to comply with any such requirement he
shall be subject to a penalty of not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than
ten dollars ($10.00) for each day's neglect.
3-1-13: NO GOODS TO BE STORED ON WALKS:
No street, alley or sidewalk shall be used for the storage of goods, wares or
merchandise, or sign of any kind or description whatever, which shall occupy
any space extending beyond three feet (3') next to the building or boundary
line of his or her lot, and four feet (4') above the sidewalk, and if any
person shall place or cause to be placed in or upon any sidewalk, any barrel,
box, hogshead, crate, package, or any matter or thing whatever which shall take
up more space than three feet (3') next to the building and shall suffer the
same to remain thereon more than two (2) hours, he shall be subject to a fine
of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), and any policeman or public officer shall be empowered to cause the
same to be removed at the expense of the party placing the same thereon, and
the said party shall also be subject to a fine of one dollar ($1.00) an hour
for each and every hour that said goods, wares, merchandise, matters or things
remained there after the expiration of two (2) hours.
3-1-14: AWNINGS:
All awnings hereafter erected shall be elevated at least eight feet, at the
lowest part thereof, above the top of the sidewalk and shall not project over
the sidewalk to exceed three-fourths (3/4) of the width thereof. They shall be
supported without posts by iron brackets or by an iron frame work attached
firmly to the building so as to leave the sidewalk wholly unobstructed thereby.
All awnings heretofore erected in a different manner shall be removed within a
reasonable time after notice hereafter as specified. If any person shall erect
any awning contrary to the provisions hereof; or shall refuse or neglect
forthwith to remove any awning or awning post after written notice to remove
the same, to be given by the said engineer he shall be subject to a penalty of
five dollars ($5.00) for each offense, and to a further penalty of five dollars
($5.00) for every day he shall fail to comply with such notice, after a lapse
of five days from the service thereof.
3-1-15: CELLAR DOORS:
Any person who shall keep or leave open any cellar door, or grating of any
vault on any highway or sidewalk, or suffer the same to be left open or kept
open, or who shall suffer any sidewalks in front of his premises to become or
continue so broken as to endanger life or limb, shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) in every case. It shall be the duty of said
engineer and all policemen to take note of all defects in sidewalks, and when
out of repair notify owners or occupants of the premises in front of which said
are, and also report the same to the Board of Trustees, and see to the
enforcing of the provisions of this Chapter.
3-1-16: MERCHANDISE ON WALKS:
No person shall while receiving or delivering goods, wares or merchandise,
permit the same to remain on any sidewalk or in any street longer than two (2)
hours, and for this purpose he shall occupy only so much of the outer edge of
the sidewalk in front of his store or building as will leave an unoccupied
space of four feet in width of such sidewalks free from skids and obstructions
of every character for the use of pedestrians.
3-1-17: DRIVING OR RIDING ON WALKS:
That no person or persons shall push, propel or back any wagon, horse, cart,
bicycle or tricycle or other vehicle, over any sidewalk or curbing, or use,
lead, ride or drive any horse or other animal, wagon, sled or sleigh over or
thereon, unless said sidewalk and curbing be properly protected by plane or
planks of sufficient thickness, so as to prevent the marring or breakage of
said curb and sidewalk, or their defacement in any manner; and such driving or
crossing over of said and sidewalks, by any vehicle, as hereinbefore provided,
into any yard or lot is permitted only when protected, as hereinbefore set
forth, where no other suitable crossing or means of access is provided, under
the penalty of not less than one dollar ($1.00), nor more than ten dollars
($10.00) for each offense.
3-1-18: CROSS-WALKS; OBSTRUCTING:
All crosswalks in the Village shall be kept free from any sleighs, wagons,
carts or carriages, horses or other animals, except so far as may be necessary
in crossing the same, and the owner, driver or person in charge of any bicycle,
tricycle, sleigh, wagon, cart or carriage, or horse or other animal, offending
therein, shall forfeit and pay a penalty of three dollars ($3.00).
3-1-19: RUNNING WHEELS OR SAWING WOOD ON WALKS:
No person shall drag any wheel or wheelbarrow or saw any wood or lay or place
any wood, coal, or other thing or any other article whatsoever upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place, except in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter, under the penalty of not less than five dollars ($5.00) for each
offense.
3-1-20: CARTS OR CARRIAGES ON WALKS:
No owner or occupant of any store or house shall permit or suffer any cart or
other wheeled carriages, save hand carriages, exclusively for infants, to be
driven or otherwise to pass or go over or upon the foot path or sidewalk
opposite to such house or store for the purpose of loading or unloading such
cart or other wheeled carriage or for any other purpose whatever, under the
penalty of five dollars ($5.00) for each offense.
3-1-21: PERSON INJURING WALK TO REPAIR SAME:
Any cartman or other person who shall break or otherwise injure any foot path
or sidewalk, he or they shall within twenty-four (24) hours thereafter cause
the same to be well and sufficiently repaired and mended under the direction of
the said Engineer, and to his satisfaction under the penalty of ten dollars
($10.00).
3-1-22: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION BY ENGINEER OR OTHER OFFICER:
The Engineer or any officer of the Village is hereby authorized to cause any
obstruction, encroachment or other thing which may be in violation of the
provisions of this Chapter to be removed within a reasonable time after notice
served upon the owner, agent or person in possession of the premises where such
violation occurs, or in case the owner, agent or person in possession cannot be
found, then summarily to remove the same, and the owner, agent or party causing
such violation shall pay all expenses, and costs of such removal in addition to
the penalties aforesaid; and any person who shall wrongfully interfere with
such removal shall suffer a penalty of not less than ten dollars ($10.00).
3-1-23: POLICEMAN TO REPORT DEFECTS:
It shall be the duty of all policemen to report to the Engineer all defects in
sidewalks, and in case of accident they shall report the same to the Village
Attorney together with the names of any witnesses to said accident, if known to
them. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
3-1-24: SIDEWALK TO BE INSTALLED OR PROTECTED; DEPOSIT:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every applicant for a building permit for the
construction of a new building within the Village to:
      1.   Install within the boundaries of the property on which such building
is to be constructed public sidewalk along streets abutting such property
within 10 days after completion.
      2.   If public sidewalk has already been installed, to protect such
sidewalk from damage during construction and to repair any damage done within 5
days after completion.
   (B)   To assure compliance with this Section, each applicant, as aforesaid,
shall deposit with the Village an amount of money equal to $5.00 for each
lineal foot of sidewalk required to be installed or protected, which sum may be
used by the Village to install or repair sidewalk as required herein upon the
failure of applicant to do so.
   (C)   Applicant may obtain refund of the money deposited upon request and
certification by the Building Commissioner that this Section has been complied
with. (Ord. 1966-10; 5-12-66)
CHAPTER 2
WATER AND SEWER
SECTION:
3-2-1: Enablement
3-2-1.1: Sewers And Drains
3-2-2: Opening Or Connecting With Sewers
3-2-3: Sewer Connection Permit; Fee
3-2-4: Tapping; Connections
3-2-5: Water Pipe Requirements
3-2-6: Licensed Plumbers
3-2-7: Costs To Be Individuals
3-2-8: Larger Service Pipes
3-2-9: Permission Required
3-2-10: Tampering
3-2-11: Permit For Plumbing Work Required
3-2-12: Permit Required For Taking Water
3-2-13: Application For Water
3-2-14: Water Rates
3-2-14.1: Water For Construction Purposes
3-2-15: Special Rates
3-2-16: Churches And Schools
3-2-17: Sprinkling
3-2-18: Water Meters
3-2-19: Interference With Superintendent Or Inspectors
3-2-20: Water Commissioner
3-2-21: Sewer Rates
3-2-22: Delinquent Water And Sewer Bills
3-2-1: ENABLEMENT:
Pursuant to the provisions of and authority granted to the village in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-139 et seq., the waterworks system and the
sewerage system owned and operated by the village shall be known and operated
as the River Grove combined waterworks and sewerage system. (Ord. 2001-06, 7-5-
2001, eff. 8-1-2001)
3-2-1.1: SEWERS AND DRAINS:
All sewers and drains in any of the streets, alleys, avenues or public places
of the village shall be under the charge of the president of the village and
the committee on sewer and water, and they shall be kept in good order and
condition, and clean and free from obstruction and such repairs shall be made
from time to time of sewers, drains, receiving basins, culverts and openings
connected therewith as may be determined from time to time by the president and
board of trustees of the village. (Rev. Ord. amended 5-11-1961; amd. Ord. 2001-
06, 7-5-2001, eff. 8-1-2001)
3-2-2: OPENING OR CONNECTING WITH SEWERS:
The president of the village and the committee on sewer and water shall
prescribe the mode of piercing or opening any of such sewers or drains, and the
form, size and material of the connections made therewith, and shall have
authority to grant permission to make lateral connections with such sewers.
(Rev. Ord. amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-3: SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT; FEE:
No connection shall be made with any public sewer or drain without the written
permission of the president of the village and the chairman of the committee on
sewer and water; and the committee on sewer and water is hereby authorized to
exact a license fee for permission to connect with any sewer or drain, to be
fixed by such committee, which said license fee shall be equal to an amount
sufficient to defray the expense imposed upon the village, in consequence of
granting such permission; the said license fee, however, to be not less than
five dollars ($5.00) for each connection. Any person making any connection or
opening into any sewer or drain without such permission, or in a manner
different from the mode prescribed by the said committee, shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each offense and a further fine of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each and every day such unauthorized
connection or opening shall continue. Any person obtaining a permit to make any
connection under the provisions of this chapter shall in any event agree in
writing that the work will be performed by a competent drain layer, and that
all provisions of this code in relation to excavating the streets shall be
complied with, and further that such applicant will indemnify the village for
any damages or costs to which it may be put by reason of injuries resulting
from neglect or carelessness in performing the work so permitted. (Rev. Ord.
amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-4: TAPPING; CONNECTIONS:
No water main shall be tapped nor shall any connection be made with any service
or supply pipe until an application in writing shall first have been made to
the president of the village and the committee on sewer and water, and until
such permission shall have been granted.
Such application shall set forth a true legal description of the premises which
it is proposed to serve, the name and address of the person about to perform
the work, and size of the tap desired.
No water main shall be tapped other than by a tapper employed by the village of
River Grove and all tapping shall be performed only under the authority of the
president of the village and the committee on sewer and water.
No person, firm or corporation to whom permission is granted to connect any
service or supply pipe under the provisions of this section shall permit any
person to take service therefrom unless a permit for such use has been granted
by the president of the village and the committee on sewer and water, and in
the absence of such permission the new service or supply pipe shall be turned
off at the curb stopcock, and such stopcock shall not again be turned on until
proper permit shall be in the possession of the person about to perform such
turning on. (Rev. Ord. amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-5: WATER PIPE REQUIREMENTS:
All water service pipes hereafter laid shall be of not less than three-fourths
inch (3/4") internal diameter, and shall be equipped with a buffalo or shutoff
box, including a roundway stopcock, and constructed and located to the
satisfaction and approval of the president of the village and the committee on
sewer and water.
Each private supply pipe and each service pipe, branch or independent
connecting pipe drawing water from such private supply pipe, shall be equipped
with a buffalo or shutoff box, including a roundway stopcock, and constructed
and located to the satisfaction and approval of the president of the village
and the committee on sewer and water. Each buffalo box shall be a type or
design to be approved by the president of the village and the committee on
sewer and water. (Rev. Ord. amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-6: LICENSED PLUMBERS:
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or entity for the connecting
of any service or supply pipe, or for the laying of any private supply pipe, or
for the making of a connection thereto, or for the installing or altering of
any plumbing work which is connected or is intended for connection to the
village waterworks system, unless such person or entity be a duly licensed and
bonded plumber under the Illinois Plumbing Licensing Law, 225 ILCS 320/1, et
seq. All planning and designing of plumbing systems and all plumbing shall be
performed only by such "licensed plumbers" and "licensed apprentice plumbers"
under the law.
   (B)   Nothing contained in
3-2-6(A) shall prohibit the owner occupant or lessee occupant of a single
family residence, or the owner of a single family residence under construction
for his or her occupancy, from planning, installing, altering or repairing the
plumbing system of such residence, provided that (i) such plumbing shall comply
with the minimum standards for plumbing contained in the Illinois State
Plumbing Code, and shall be subject to inspection by the Department or the
village's licensed plumber inspector; and (ii) such owner, owner occupant or
lessee occupant shall not employ other than a plumber licensed pursuant to the
Illinois Plumbing Licensing Law to assist him or her. For purposes of this
subsection, a person shall be considered an "occupant" if and only if he or she
has taken possession of and is living in the premises as his or her bona fide
sole and exclusive residence, or, in the case of an owner of a single family
residence under construction for his or her occupancy, he or she expects to
take possession of and live in the premises as his or her bona fide sole and
exclusive residence, and he or she has a current intention to live in such
premises as his or her bona fide sole and exclusive residence for a period of
not less than 6 months after the completion of the plumbing work performed
pursuant to the authorization of this subsection, or, in the case of an owner
of a single family residence under construction for his or her occupancy, for a
period of not less than 6 months after the completion of construction of the
residence. Failure to possess and live in the premises as a sole and exclusive
residence for a period of 6 months or more shall create a rebuttable
presumption of a lack of such intention. (Rev. Ord. amended 5-11-1961; amd.
Ord. 2025-17, 4-7-2025)
3-2-7: COSTS TO BE INDIVIDUALS:
The cost of installing service pipes, private supply pipes, buffalo or shutoff
boxes including roundway stopcock, shall be borne by the person for whose
premises such service pipe is to be installed, and every person having service
from the village waterworks system shall at his own cost and expense, keep in
repair all pipes, including private supply pipes, leading from the buffalo or
shutoff box to his building or premises, and prevent all waste of water from
such pipes. If any such pipe be permitted to remain out of repair, the
president of the village may after two (2) days' notice in writing, cut off the
water from said premises; and whenever the water is so cut off, it shall not be
permitted to be again turned on until such pipe or pipes have been placed in
proper repair. The notice herein provided for may be served by personal
service, or by mailing to the owner or occupant, or person in possession,
charge or control of the premises. (Rev. Ord. amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-8: LARGER SERVICE PIPES:
In any building, structure or premises where the consumption of water requires
a larger service than can be supplied by the existing tap or connection, a new
tap or connection shall be made with the village water main to correspond to
the size of the service desired. The joining of two (2) or more smaller service
pipes for the purpose of connection to one larger service is prohibited. (Rev.
Ord. amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-9: PERMISSION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any manner with any water
main, service pipe valve, buffalo or shutoff box, or any pipe connected with
the village waterworks system or comprising a part of such system, unless
permission therefor has been obtained from the president of the village and the
committee on sewer and water. (Rev. Ord. amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-10: TAMPERING:
No person shall be permitted to tamper, test, repair, remove, relocate or in
any way interfere with any water meter, proportional, indicating or recording
device, installed in any building, structure or premises for the control of the
water supply thereto, excepting under authority granted by the president of the
village and the committee on sewer and water. The owner of the building
structure or premises for which such meter is installed, or the person in
possession, charge or control thereof, shall be held responsible for any
unauthorized tampering and interference, and the water supply to such building,
structure or premises shall be cut off, and shall not again be permitted to be
turned on until such owner or person shall have paid to the committee on sewer
and water the cost and expense of cutting off and turning on such water supply;
provided, that where such person can show that such tampering was done contrary
to his efforts to prevent same there shall be no such cutting off of the water
supply. (Rev. Ord. amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-11: PERMIT FOR PLUMBING WORK REQUIRED:
No person shall install any plumbing work in any building structure or premises
with the intention of connecting such plumbing work with the pipes or mains of
the village waterworks system or make any alteration of or addition to any
pipe, valve, fixture or apparatus already installed, unless such person has
first obtained a permit for the doing of such work from the president of the
village and the committee on sewer and water, and such permit shall not be
construed as conveying any authority for the use of water from such pipe,
fixtures, or apparatus, excepting for the purpose of making necessary tests.
Where any fixtures, openings or apparatus are installed under the provisions of
this section, the stopcock nearest the same shall be shut off upon completion
of the work authorized, and the president of the village and the committee on
sewer and water shall be notified of such completion within ten (10) days
following; providing however, that if permission for service to the building,
structure or premises or portion thereof has been granted, or if such plumbing,
pipes, fixtures or openings are supplied by a metered service, said stopcock
need not be shut off.
In any building, structure or premises occupied by a large consumer where there
are no service pipes other than metered service pipes, the president of the
village and the committee on sewer and water may issue for the duration of any
calendar year, permission to make such addition to or alteration of pipes and
such other plumbing work as may be necessary. Provided such work is performed
and installed entirely within such building, structure or premises, and
entirely within the area of meter control; but nothing herein contained shall
be construed as authority for the installing of any additional service pipe.
Where a stopcock has been shut off as provided in this section it shall not be
again turned on until a proper permit shall be in the possession of the person
about to perform such turning on.
The president of the village and the committee on sewer and water may withhold
or shut off service from any building, structure or premises or to any portion
thereof, in which shall be found any plumbing work, fixture or apparatus which
has not been installed in accordance with the provisions of this section, until
such plumbing work, fixture or apparatus has been disconnected, or until a
proper permit has been issued; and in addition the president of the village and
the committee on sewer and water may require the person responsible for such
illegal installation to pay to the village such sum of money as the said
president of the village and the committee on sewer and water may deem properly
due for any water rates or charges which should have been paid for the period
during which such fixture or apparatus has been installed. (Rev. Ord. amended
5-11-1961)
3-2-12: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TAKING WATER:
No person shall take water from any fireplug, hydrant, valve, faucet, pipe or
any other opening connected with the village waterworks system, nor shall any
person open any such fireplug, hydrant, valve or faucet for the purpose of
taking water, or for any purpose, excepting where such person shall first have
made application for use of water for such purpose and has received permission
from the president of the village and the committee on sewer and water, or
where such person is an employee of the village and is acting in the discharge
of his duties as such.
No person, firm or corporation to whom a permit is issued for the use of water
for any purpose whatsoever, including construction purposes, tamping,
irrigating, testing, flushing, domestic supply, etc., shall use or consent to
the use of any water, not authorized by said permit, or consent to the use of
such water by any other person, firm or corporation. Any person to whom such
permit is issued shall at all times use precaution to prevent any waste of
water or damage, and upon completion of the work for which such use of water is
authorized, or upon the expiration of the time specified in such permit, he
shall be required to close off all stopcocks and valves; provided, however,
that if a permit has been issued for service from water service pipes
controlled by such valves, they may be allowed to remain open. (Rev. Ord.
amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-13: APPLICATION FOR WATER:
It is unlawful to obtain service from the water system of this village without
first securing a permit so to do. Any person, firm or corporation wishing such
water service to any building, structure or premises shall file application
therefor, in writing, with the village clerk, who shall process same through
the appropriate departments for investigation. Applicant and the owner of the
premises shall answer truthfully all questions of the personnel of the village
investigating the application relative thereto or the proposed use of the
service.
Applicant and owner shall be jointly and severally responsible for the payment
of any water or water services supplied as a result of such application until
notice is given in writing to the Village at least ten (10) days in advance
that such services be terminated.
By making application, applicant and owner shall be deemed to have authorized
the Village to terminate service without notice after a default in payment for
such water and/or service for a period of sixty (60) days. Partial payment
shall not toll the sixty (60) day period without express agreement, in writing,
signed by a duly authorized officer of the Village. (Ord. 1980-20, 12-5-1980)
3-2-14: WATER RATES:
Water used on each independent premises shall be registered and measured by
meter. If a meter at any time fails to register the quantity of water passed
through the meter, the quantity shall be determined and the charge based upon
the average quantity registered during such preceding period of time prior to
the date of failure as directed by the Comptroller and Water Superintendent of
the Village. No deduction shall be made from bills on account of leakage. If
not paid within sixty (60) days after the due date of the bill, the supply of
water will be stopped until all arrearages and the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for shutting off and turning on the water is paid. All water and
sewer charges shall be billed to each customer on a monthly basis.
As of June 1, 2022, monthly water rates charged to customers shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Residential Customers: Eleven dollars and sixty eight cents ($11.68)
shall be charged per each one thousand (1,000) gallons used, plus an annual
increase of three percent (3%) effective on the 1st day of June each year
hereafter, and any increase in rates imposed upon the Village by the City of
Chicago in the future for such water for all customers unless otherwise
provided for herein.
   (B)   Commercial Customers: Thirteen dollars and thirteen cents ($13.13)
shall be charged per each one thousand (1,000) gallons used, plus an annual
increase of three percent (3%) effective on the 1st day of June each year
hereafter, and any increase in rates imposed upon the Village by the City of
Chicago in the future for such water for all customers unless otherwise
provided for herein.
   (C)   Minimum Monthly Charges: All residential customers are subject to a
minimum monthly charge of eleven dollars and sixty eight cents ($11.68) as of
June 1, 2022, which amount shall be increased by three percent (3%) effective
on the 1st day of June each year hereafter, plus any increase in rates imposed
upon the Village by the City of Chicago in the future for such water for all
customers unless otherwise provided for herein; and all commercial customers
are subject to a minimum monthly charge of thirteen dollars and thirteen cents
($13.13), which amount shall be increased by three percent (3%) on the 1st day
of June each year hereafter, plus any increase in rates imposed upon the
Village by the City of Chicago in the future for such water for all customers
unless otherwise provided for herein.
   (D)   Late Payment Penalty: All water and sewer accounts not paid by the
stated due date shall be subject to a five percent (5%) late-payment penalty.
(Ord. 2018-19, 9-20-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-10, 5-19-2022)
3-2-14.1: WATER FOR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES:
During the construction of any building and before any water is installed
therein, the contractor, or other person so constructing such building, may be
permitted to use Village water by making application therefor and paying a fee
as indicated in section
1-27-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1965-31, 10-21-1965; amd. Ord. 2017-18, 11-16-2017)
3-2-15: SPECIAL RATES:
Special rates for water used for special purposes shall be fixed from time to
time by the Board of Trustees, or such person as it may designate. (Rev. Ord.
amended 5-11-1961)
3-2-16: CHURCHES AND SCHOOLS:
Every church, public and private school located in the Village shall install a
water meter of the size and make, approved by the Superintendent of Water.
Churches and primary schools shall pay for all water used at the rate by
residential users as provided by subsection
3-2-14(A) of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-19, 9-20-2018)
3-2-17: SPRINKLING:
No person shall be permitted to use the water supplied by the Village of River
Grove for the purpose of sprinkling lawns and shrubbery between May 1 and
October 1 of each year, except between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. (5-17-1956)
3-2-18: WATER METERS:
No meter shall be removed or disturbed without first having obtained written
permission from the Chairman of the Committee of Fire and Water.
Consumers of water supplied through a meter shall make all necessary repairs
for the proper operation of such meter, and in case the Chairman of the
Committee of Fire and Water shall deem it necessary and expedient to repair a
defective meter, the expense of such repair shall be charged to such customer,
and shall be paid at the time such repair is made. (5-17-1956)
3-2-19: INTERFERENCE WITH SUPERINTENDENT OR INSPECTORS:
The Superintendent of Water and all inspectors of the department authorized by
him, shall be allowed access to any premises in which water meters are located
for the purpose of reading, examining, testing and repairing the same, and it
shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to interfere with, prevent or
obstruct said Superintendent or any inspector in the performance of his duties.
In the event that said Superintendent or any inspector shall be denied access
to any premises for the aforesaid purposes, then upon three (3) days' prior
written notice delivered personally or by mail to the occupant of any such
premises, or posted on the main door thereof, the water service to such
premises shall be shut off and discontinued and shall not be resumed until
compliance is had with this chapter, and until a fee of five dollars ($5.00) is
paid for shutting off and turning on the water service. The remedy provided in
this section shall not be exclusive, but shall be in addition to any other
remedy, provision or penalty provided by this chapter. (5-17-1956)
3-2-20: WATER COMMISSIONER:
The Office of Water Commissioner is hereby created. He shall be appointed by
the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. He shall
have general supervision over all matters and things pertaining to the Water
Department and shall receive such compensation for services as may be fixed by
ordinance. (Ord. 1977-12, 6-23-1977)
3-2-21: SEWER RATES:
The rates for the use of the sewer system shall be charged separately and shown
as a separate item on the monthly water bill at the rate of fifteen percent
(15%) of the then current water rate per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
used. All water and sewer accounts not paid by the stated due date shall be
subject to a five percent (5%) late payment penalty. (Ord. 2005-34, 1-5-2006;
amd. Ord. 2022-10, 5-19-2022)
3-2-22: DELINQUENT WATER AND SEWER BILLS:
The water and sewer charges provided for herein shall become delinquent thirty
(30) days after they become due and shall become a lien on the real estate for
which service is supplied, as provided for in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-139-8. (Ord. 2001-06, 7-5-2001, eff. 8-1-2001)
CHAPTER 3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Department Created
3-3-2: Inspector; Appointment
3-3-3: Bond
3-3-4: Standards
3-3-5: Inspections
3-3-6: Defacing Seal; Penalty
3-3-7: Register
3-3-8: Condemnation; Adjustment
3-3-9: Inspection Fees
3-3-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a department to be known as a
Department of Weights and Measures, which shall have jurisdiction over the
inspection and examination of all weights, measures, scale beams, patent
balances, steelyards, and other instruments used for weighing and measuring in
the Village.
3-3-2: INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of Inspector of Weights and Measures. He
shall be the head of the department and shall have supervision over it. He
shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
3-3-3: BOND:
The Inspector of Weights and Measures shall, before entering upon the duties of
his office, execute a bond to the Village, in the sum of five hundred dollars
($500.00), with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties of his office.
3-3-4: STANDARDS:
The Inspector of Weights and Measures may, with the approval of the Village
Board, procure correct and approved standards of weights and measures of the
standards adopted by the State of Illinois, with their necessary subdivisions,
together with the proper beams and scales, for the purpose of testing and
proving the weights and measures of said standards used in the Village.
3-3-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Inspector of Weights and Measures to inspect and
examine at least once in each year, all weights, measures, scale beams, patent
balances, steelyards and other instruments used for the purpose of weighing and
measuring in the Village, and to stamp with a suitable seal all weights,
measures, scales and weighing and measuring devices so used which he may find
accurate, and deliver to the owner thereof certificates of their accuracy. He
shall provide a table of tolerances and specifications in conformity with those
approved by the National Bureau of Standards.
3-3-6: DEFACING SEAL; PENALTY:
Any person or persons who shall wilfully remove, destroy or in any manner erase
any stamp or seal of inspection from any scale, weight or measure shall be
fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
3-3-7: REGISTER:
It shall be the duty of said Inspector to make a register of all the weights,
measures, scale beams, patent balances, steelyards and other instruments used
for weighing, inspected and sealed by him, in which he shall state the names of
the owners of the same and whether they are conformable to the standard of the
State.
3-3-8: CONDEMNATION; ADJUSTMENT:
Said inspector shall examine and inspect and seal all weights, measures, scale
beams, patent balances, steelyards and other instruments used for weighing at
the stores and places where the same may be used; but in case they, or any of
them shall not be conformable to the standard of this state, they shall be
marked "condemned" and the owner thereof shall within ten days thereafter have
the same properly adjusted and sealed; and the inspector may, at any time after
the expiration of said ten (10) days, seize and destroy any and all such
condemned weights, measures, scale beams, patent balances, steelyards and other
instruments used for weighing found in use.
3-3-9: INSPECTION FEES:
The Inspector of Weights and Measures shall prepare a tabulation of fees to be
paid by the owner of any of the aforesaid instruments for the inspection and
sealing of the same, and such fees, when approved by the Board of Trustees,
shall be paid by said owners before the issuance of the certificate provided
for in and Section
3-3-5 hereof. (Ch. 49; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 3A
REGULATION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Inspection
3-3A-2: Fees for Inspection
3-3A-3: Limitations on Fees
3-3A-4: Incorrect Measures
3-3A-5: Peddlers' Scales
3-3A-6: Testing of Mechanical Liquid Measures
3-3A-7: Measurement of Fuel Oil
3-3A-7.1: Definitions
3-3A-7.2: Meter-Recording Element
3-3A-7.3: Vehicle Tanks; Liquid Measure Devices; Delivery Tickets
3-3A-7.4: False Delivery Ticket; Substitute Product
3-3A-7.5: Requirements When Vehicle Tank Meter Altered or Removed
3-3A-7.6: Exemptions
3-3A-7.7: New Equipment
3-3A-7.8: Standard Avoirdupois Weight Defined
3-3A-7.9: Gasoline and Petroleum Products
3-3A-8: Weighing of Solid Fuel
3-3A-9: Weighing of Feed
3-3A-10: Weighing of Crushed Stone, Sand, and Gravel
3-3A-11: Weighing of Ice
3-3A-12: Standards for Sale of Certain Commodities
3-3A-12.1: Net Weight Basis
3-3A-12.2: Prepackaged Commodities
3-3A-12.3: Transparent Wrapping
3-3A-12.4: USDA Grade Mark Required on Meat or Poultry
3-3A-13: Measuring of Fresh Small Fruits
3-3A-13.1: Package Markings
3-3A-14: Repacking Fruit and Vegetables
3-3A-15: Milk or Cream in Bottles
3-3A-16: Bread Loaves
3-3A-17: Biscuits or Rolls
3-3A-18: Bread Scales
3-3A-19: Weighing Load Lots
3-3A-20: Contents of Certificate of Weight
3-3A-21: Verification of Weight
3-3A-22: Delivery Ticket
3-3A-23: Contents of Delivery Ticket
3-3A-24: Memorandum by Warehouse or Railway
3-3A-25: "Net Weight" Defined
3-3A-26: Weighmaster Weighing Own Commodities
3-3A-27: Obstruction of Reweighing
3-3A-28: False Certificates and Delivery Tickets
3-3A-29: False Weights and Measures
3-3A-29.1: Deceptive Practices Prohibited
3-3A-29.2: Deceptive Practices; Penalty
3-3A-29.3: Labeling Lead Based Paints
3-3A-30: Enforcement
3-3A-31: Penalty
3-3A-1: INSPECTION:
Every person using weights, measures, scale beams, patent balances, steelyards,
or any instrument in weighing or measuring any article intended to be purchased
or sold in the Village, or any article weighed or measured for shipping or
receiving purposes, or in weighing or measuring any person or animal for hire
or reward, shall cause the same to be inspected and sealed by the Inspector of
Weights and Measures and shall obtain a certificate of accuracy in accordance
with the provisions of Section 16-4 of this Code.
No person shall refuse to exhibit any weight, measure, scale beam, patent
balance, steelyards, or other instrument to the Inspector of Weights and
Measures for the purpose of being so inspected and examined.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense.
3-3A-2: FEES FOR INSPECTION:
The Inspector of Weights and Measures shall demand and receive for the use of
the Village, before the delivery of the certificates provided for by this
Chapter the following fees:
For inspecting and sealing scales of the capacity of 24,000 pounds, and  $5.50
upwards, each
For inspecting and sealing scales of the capacity of 6,000 pounds up to  $2.20
24,000 pounds, each
For inspecting and sealing scales of the capacity of 2,500 pounds up to  $1.10
6,000 pounds, each
For inspecting and sealing scales of a capacity up to 2,500 pounds each  $.55
For inspecting and sealing hopper scales, each                           $2.20
For inspecting and sealing two-bushel, one-bushel and half-bushel        $.15
measures, each
For inspecting and sealing any other dry measure, each                   $.15
For inspecting and sealing every automatic weighing machine, or other
similar device of a capacity of less than three tons, used for           $.85
weighing, each
For inspecting and sealing liquid measures of a capacity up to and       $.25
including five gallons, each
For inspecting and sealing liquid measures of a capacity over five       $.25
gallons, for each five gallon capacity or part
For inspecting and sealing any automatic machine used for measuring      $.50
liquids, each unit
For inspecting and sealing yard measures, each                           $.15
For inspecting and sealing any linear measure, for each three feet       $.15
For inspecting and sealing any tape line exceeding fifty feet in         $.85
length, each
For inspecting and sealing any automatic machine used for lineal         $.85
measuring, each
For inspecting and sealing any automatic pump used for measuring         $1.10
gasoline, oils, etc., each
For measuring a quantity of coal or wood and issuing a certificate of    $2.20
approximate measure or weight of same
For weighing or measuring any other commodity and issuing a certificate  $3.30
of weight or measure, at the rate per hour of
For inspecting and sealing gasoline and fuel oil tank trucks, wagons or  $11.00
trailers of a capacity of one thousand gallons or less, each
For inspecting and sealing gasoline and fuel oil tank trucks, wagons or
trailers of a capacity of over one thousand gallons, for each 500        $5.50
gallons capacity or part thereof
For inspecting and sealing any meter used for measuring gasoline, oils,  $2.20
etc., each
 
3-3A-3: LIMITATIONS ON FEES:
It shall not be lawful for the said Inspector to make charges for inspecting
and examining weights, measures, scale beams, patent balances, steelyards, or
other instruments used for weighing, more than once in each year (except
charges for inspecting and examining track scales and scales of a capacity of
three [3] tons and upwards, and automatic or mechanical pumps or liquid
measuring devices, which shall not be made more than one in every six [6]
months), unless such weights, measures, scale beams, patent balances,
steelyards, or other instruments used in weighing and measuring shall be found
to be not conformable to the said standard.
3-3A-4: INCORRECT MEASURES:
If any person shall use, maintain, or operate in the Village, in weighing or
measuring as aforesaid, any weight, measure, scale beam, patent balance,
steelyard, or other instrument which shall not be conformable to the standard
of this State, or shall use in weighing, as aforesaid, any scale beam, patent
balance, steelyard, or other instrument which shall be out of order or
incorrect, or which shall not balance, he shall be fined for every such offense
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
In every case where the said Inspector may, at the request of the owner or
person in possession or control of any scale, weight, or measure, employ labor
or material in making such scale, weight, or measure accurate, he shall charge
and receive from such owner or person, for the use of the Village, a just and
reasonable compensation for such labor and material.
3-3A-5: PEDDLERS' SCALES:
All itinerant peddlers and hawkers using scales, balances, weights, or measures
shall take the same to the office of the Inspector of Weights and Measures
before any use is made thereof and have the same sealed and adjusted annually;
and any such person failing to comply with the provisions of this Section shall
be regarded as having committed a separate and distinct offense each day such
person shall use such scales, balances, weights, or measures without having the
same adjusted and sealed as hereinbefore provided.
Any itinerant peddler or hawker found using any ice scale shall be subject to a
fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each offense.
3-3A-6: TESTING OF MECHANICAL LIQUID MEASURES:
Any person owning, operating, or using any automatic or mechanical pump or
liquid-measuring device for the purpose of measuring any liquid commodity to be
sold or offered for sale within the Village shall provide proper tested
standard measures, and shall each day before making the first scale in the
morning, and always before commencing to sell a new supply of liquid, test the
accuracy of the device so in use.
No person shall use such automatic or mechanical pump or device without first
having obtained a certificate of approval from the Inspector of Weights and
Measures as provided in Section 16-4 of this Code, nor shall any person use any
such automatic or mechanical pump or device that is incorrect or defective.
3-3A-7: MEASUREMENT OF FUEL OIL:
No person shall sell distillate fuels by any other than liquid measure using
the standard gallon as the unit measure. No person shall sell or deliver or
attempt to sell or deliver to any purchaser in excess of ten (10) gallons of
any distillate fuel unless measured at the place and time of delivery by means
of a meter or five (5) gallon liquid measure, tested and sealed by the
Department of Weights and Measures; provided that deliveries of distillate fuel
in quantities of two thousand (2,000) gallons or more or of residual fuel of
any quantity may be measured either through a meter or by a vehicle tank which
has been tested and sealed by the Department of Weights and Measures.
3-3A-7.1: DEFINITIONS:
The term "distillate fuels" as used herein shall be construed to mean and
include fuel in liquid form which can or may be used for heating purposes and
which has an American Petroleum Institute gravity nominally greater than twenty
two (22); however, if the oil has a Saybolt universal viscosity of more than
fifty five (55) seconds at one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100° F.), it shall
not be included.
3-3A-7.2: METER-RECORDING ELEMENT:
Each and every delivery from any vehicle tank or other wheeled conveyance, of
distillate fuels, required to be measured by meter at the place of delivery,
shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   The meter shall be equipped with a recording element, i.e., a ticket
printing device, this element or register to print upon the delivery ticket
either the gallonage reading before and after delivery or the zero indications
and total number of gallons delivered.
   (B)   Any meter not now equipped with a recording element shall be so
equipped within a period not to exceed ninety (90) days from and after the
effective date of this Section.
   (C)   The delivery ticket shall be inserted in the recording element after
the vehicle reaches the place of delivery and shall not be carried in the
recording element while the vehicle is in transit.
3-3A-7.3: VEHICLE TANKS; LIQUID MEASURE DEVICES; DELIVERY TICKETS:
All vehicle tank deliveries of either distillate or residual fuels shall
conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   Each vehicle tank, liquid measure device and appurtenance used in such
delivery shall conform to the requirements prescribed therefor in the United
States Bureau of Standards Handbook 44 in its latest form and in the laws and
regulations of the State of Illinois.
   (B)   Upon completion of each delivery, the delivery ticket and at least one
duplicate thereof shall be completed, and one copy thereof shall be given to
the purchaser or to an agent of the purchaser or in the absence of both shall
be left at the place of delivery.
   (C)   On each delivery ticket there shall be distinctly and legibly
expressed the date of delivery, the name and address of the seller, the name
and address of the purchaser, the gallonage reading before and after delivery
or the number of gallons delivered, and the signature of the person making the
delivery.
   (D)   All delivery tickets shall be serially numbered and no ticket or
duplicate thereof shall be destroyed but may be voided and kept on file. At
least one copy of each delivery ticket shall be retained and preserved for a
period of at least two (2) years after the date of delivery and shall be
available for inspection by the Inspector of Weights and Measures and his
deputies.
3-3A-7.4: FALSE DELIVERY TICKET; SUBSTITUTE PRODUCT:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or attempt to deliver
to any purchaser any kind or grade of distillate fuel other than that ordered
by the purchaser, unless the purchaser is notified before delivery is made.
   (B)   Any person who shall furnish to any person making or in charge of a
delivery of distillate fuels or to any person to whom such a delivery is made,
a false or fraudulent delivery ticket or a ticket which does not show the
actual meter measurement of the quantity delivered, shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or attempt to deliver
to any purchaser in the Village of River Grove, distillate fuels at an
artificially produced temperature in excess of sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°
F).
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person making or in charge of delivery of
distillate fuel to refuse, fail or neglect to deliver to the Inspector of
Weights and Measures or to any of his deputies upon demand therefor, any ticket
evidencing any delivery subject to the provisions of Sections
3-3A-7.2 and
3-3A-7.3. If the Inspector or deputy desires to retain the ticket, he shall
make and deliver to the person a signed receipt therefor.
3-3A-7.5: REQUIREMENTS WHEN VEHICLE TANK METER ALTERED OR REMOVED:
If, after the approval, testing and sealing by the Department of Weights and
Measures of any vehicle tank, meter, or measuring device used in delivering
distillate fuels it shall be necessary to adjust, repair, or alter the same or
to remove a meter from a vehicle tank to which it is affixed at the time of
testing and sealing or to install the same on any other vehicle tank, immediate
written notice shall be transmitted in person or by mail to the Inspector of
Weights and Measures.
All adjustable elements on such vehicle tank, meter, or measuring device, shall
seal with a lead and wire seal by the person or agency making the adjustment,
repair, alteration, or removal, pending a retest by the Department of Weights
and Measures. Any person failing to seal such adjustable elements, or transmit
such notice shall be subject to a penalty of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
3-3A-7.6: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of Sections
3-3A-6,
3-3A-7.1,
3-3A-7.2,
3-3A-7.3,
3-3A-7.4 and
3-3A-7.5 shall not apply to fuel oils delivered in packages or in tank cars by
railroad nor to deliveries by pipe line, boat or barge nor to deliveries by any
method from a refinery, pipe line terminal or boat or barge terminal into
storage at a wholesale distributing plant of a liquid fuel dealer or
distributor.
3-3A-7.7: NEW EQUIPMENT:
Where any new or additional equipment or appurtenance, except a meter recording
element or register is required by the provisions of Section
3-3A-7 to
3-3A-7.3, inclusive, a period of six (6) months from and after the effective
date of said sections shall be allowed for the procurement and installation of
the same, provided that the Inspector of Weights and Measures shall allow
additional grace periods of not to exceed six (6) months each for such
procurement and installation if it appears that such additional time is
necessary because the equipment or appurtenance cannot be obtained and
installed during the time theretofore allowed.
3-3A-7.8: STANDARD AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT DEFINED:
The terms "Avoirdupois Weight" and "Standard Avoirdupois Weight" as used in
this Chapter shall be construed to mean weight expressed in the standard
avoirdupois pound and decimal or common fractions thereof, or in the standard
avoirdupois pound and ounces and fractions thereof.
3-3A-7.9: GASOLINE AND PETROLEUM PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer for
sale at retail gasoline or petroleum products for motor vehicle use, in any
manner which deceives or tends to deceive a purchaser or prospective purchaser
as to price, quality or identity of the product. The pump, dispensing device or
container shall have the name, brand, symbol, mark and minimum research octane
rating or minimum research cetane rating affixed to it of the gasoline or
petroleum product sold or offered for sale, and the product therein cannot be
substituted, mixed or adulterated. For the purpose of this Section 'Research
Octane Rating' or 'Research Cetane Rating' shall mean the research octane
rating as described in the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM)
'Standard Specifications for Gasoline' (D 439-70), or 'Standard Classification
of Diesel Fuel Oil'. (D 975-68)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), for each offense.
3-3A-8: WEIGHING OF SOLID FUEL:
Every person selling or offering for sale solid fuel in the Village shall sell
the same by avoirdupois net weight.
3-3A-9: WEIGHING OF FEED:
For the purpose of computing the weight of any hay, straw, grain, or mill-feed
sold and delivered in the Village, or sold elsewhere to be delivered within the
Village, avoirdupois weight shall be used, and one hundred (100) pounds shall
be and constitute a hundredweight, and twenty (20) such hundredweight or two
thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois shall constitute a ton.
3-3A-10: WEIGHING OF CRUSHED STONE, SAND, AND GRAVEL:
Any person engaged in the business of selling crushed stone, bank sand, torpedo
sand, or gravel within the Village for delivery in the said Village, shall, in
the absence of a contract or agreement in writing to the contrary, sell the
same by standard avoirdupois net weight and in no other way.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense.
3-3A-11: WEIGHING OF ICE:
Every person selling ice or offering ice for sale shall, at time of delivery of
any ice sold, weigh, the quantity of ice delivered, and for that purpose shall
be provided with a steelyard balance of other apparatus for weighing such ice
which shall have been duly adjusted and sealed by the Inspector of Weights and
Measures in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. All ice within the
Village shall be sold by avoirdupois weight unless it is otherwise specifically
agreed upon between the buyer and seller.
3-3A-12: STANDARDS FOR SALE OF MEAT, CHEESE, POULTRY, ETC.:
It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise for sale, keep for the purpose
of sale, offer or expose for sale, or sell, except for immediate consumption on
the premises, or when sold as one of several elements comprising a ready to eat
meal, whether cooked or uncooked, any fruit or fruit products, vegetables or
vegetable products, live and dressed poultry, poultry products, meat, meat
products, non-liquid animal products, fish and fish products, butter, cheese
and other similar dairy products, except eggs, otherwise than by standard
avoirdupois net weight delivered to the purchaser or prospective purchaser;
provided, however, that any vegetable roots may be sold by the bunch; and
provided further, that any of the said products when sold in package form,
shall comply with this Code's requirements for packages.
For the purpose of this Section the following shall be deemed to be a ready to
eat meal: A meal comprised of meat, fish, or poultry as the main portion with
vegetables and a starch product included.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), for each offense.
3-3A-12.1: NET WEIGHT BASIS:
Whenever the term "weight" is used in this Chapter it shall be construed to
mean net weight.
3-3A-12.2: PREPACKAGED COMMODITIES:
All packages of meat, meat products, poultry, poultry products, fish, fish
products, non-liquid animal products, cheese, fruits and vegetables prepared
and wrapped by the retailer in advance of being exposed or offered for sale, by
the retailer, shall be accurately weighed and, in addition to the net weight,
marked thereon, shall be marked with the price per pound, and the total selling
price.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), for each offense.
3-3A-12.3: TRANSPARENT WRAPPING:
All meats, poultry and poultry parts which are packaged by the retailer in
advance of being exposed and offered for sale shall be in an entirely
transparent package, manufactured of nontoxic material approved by the Food and
Drug Administration as being "Food Grade", which package shall afford a view of
the contents from all sides of such package, exclusive of the label which shall
not cover more than five per centum (5%) of such package. (Ord. 1975-12, 10-30-
75)
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
3-3A-12.3, the following meat products may be offered for sale on foam trays in
lieu of clear plastic trays:
   Ground beef
   Boneless cube and sandwich steaks
   Fresh or smoked sausage
   Smoked bacon
   Bacon skins
   Fresh side bacon
   Fresh or frozen poultry parts
   Smoked offal (entrails)
   Honeycomb tripe, kidneys, hearts and tongue
   Beef liver
   Beef hooves
   Beef franks
   Beef hocks
   Pig tails
   Pigs feet
   Pig snouts
   Bones
   Smoked sweet meats
   Suet
   Sweet breads
   Neck bones
   Salted meats
   Casings
   Hog maws
   Spareribs, fresh or smoked
   Cooked meat and poultry
   (Ord. 1982-11, 9-16-82)
3-3A-12.4: USDA GRADE MARK REQUIRED ON MEAT OR POULTRY:
It shall be unlawful to advertise, offer for sale, or sell any perishable meat
or poultry or otherwise, except processed meats and poultry such as sausage,
luncheon meat, smoked or cooked meat, poultry rolls or canned poultry, unless
it has one of the grade marks established by the United States Department of
Agriculture official grading standards; as follows:
   (A)   For Beef, Veal or Calf:
      1.   U.S. Prime.
      2.   U.S. Choice.
      3.   U.S. Good.
      4.   U.S. Standard.
      5.   U.S. Commercial.
      6.   U.S. Utility.
   (B)   For Lamb, Yearling and Mutton:
      1.   U.S. Prime.
      2.   U.S. Choice.
      3.   U.S. Good.
      4.   U.S. Utility.
      5.   U.S. Cull.
   (C)   For Poultry:
      1.   USDA Grade A.
      2.   USDA Grade B.
      3.   USDA Grade C.
Failure to have such grade marks, in the advertisement, and on the product or
package, or a sign so located as to be clearly identifiable as the grade
designation of the meat or poultry being offered for sale is prima facie
evidence of a violation of this Section. Grade marks shall be plain and
conspicuous and as prominent as the trade or brand denoting quality.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), for each offense.
3-3A-13: MEASURING OF FRESH SMALL FRUITS:
All fresh berries, cherries, currants, and other small fruits sold or offered
for sale in the Village shall, in the absence of a special agreement in writing
signed by the parties thereto to the contrary, be sold, if in bulk, by standard
avoirdupois net weight, or by numerical count, or in uniform size baskets,
boxes, or other receptacles containing one quart or one pint standard dry
measure of multiples thereof, and in no other way. The said receptacles shall
be uniformly and evenly filled throughout. Said baskets, boxes, or other
receptacles in which, or out of which, such small fruits are sold or offered
for sale shall not be required to be tested and sealed, but the Inspector of
Weights and Measures, or any of his deputies, may at any time test the capacity
of the basket, box, or other receptacle in which, or out of which, said
berries, cherries, currants, or other small fruits are sold or offered for
sale.
Any person selling or offering for sale any such small fruits in any basket,
box, or other receptacle that is of a capacity different from that hereinbefore
provided, or in any basket, box, or other receptacle that is not uniformly and
evenly filled throughout, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense.
3-3A-13.1: PACKAGE MARKINGS:
It shall be unlawful to keep for the purpose of sale or to offer or expose for
sale, or sell, any commodity in package form unless the net quantity of the
contents is plainly and conspicuously marked on the outside of the package, in
terms of weight, measure, or numerical count; provided, however, that
reasonable variations or tolerances shall be permitted, and that these
reasonable variations or tolerances and exemptions shall be those established
by rules and regulations made and promulgated by the Director of Agriculture of
the State of Illinois; and provided, further, that this Section shall not be
construed to apply to those commodities in package form the manner of sale of
which is specifically regulated by other provisions of this Code.
The words "in package form" as used in this Section shall be construed to
include a commodity in a package, carton, case, can, box, barrel, bottle,
phial, or other receptacle, or in coverings or wrappings of any kind, put up by
the manufacturer, or when put up prior to the order of the commodity, by the
vendor, which may be labeled, branded, or stenciled, or otherwise marked, or
which may be suitable for labeling, branding, or stenciling, or marking
otherwise, making one complete package of the commodity. The words "in package
form" shall be construed to include both the wholesale and the retail package.
"Package" as used in this Section, does not include any container in which are
packed or contained packages of a smaller size of a commodity, but this Section
applies only to the container directly enclosing the commodity.
3-3A-14: REPACKING FRUIT AND VEGETABLES:
Any person selling or offering for sale any fresh or green fruit or vegetables
which have been emptied from and repacked in barrels, boxes, baskets, or other
receptacles, shall clearly stamp or write upon the outside of such barrels,
boxes, baskets, or other receptacles, in a conspicuous place, the words
"repacked by", and, following such words, the name of the person so repacking
the said fruit or vegetables.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense.
3-3A-15: MILK OR CREAM IN BOTTLES:
No person shall sell or offer for sale within the Village any milk or cream in
bottles, or in glass jars, unless each of said bottles or glass jars in which
said milk or cream is sold or offered for sale shall have blown into it or
otherwise indelibly and permanently indicated thereon in a legible and
conspicuous manner the capacity thereof; and the Inspector of Weights and
Measures shall have the right at any time to examine any bottle or glass jar in
which milk or cream is sold or offered for sale in the Village, or which is
used by any person for the purpose of containing milk or cream to be sold or
offered for sale, in order to ascertain whether such bottle or jar is of a
capacity not less than that which it purports to be; provided, that the test of
forty eight (48) bottles or glass jars to be used for milk or cream sold or
offered for sale containing milk by any person shall be taken by said
Inspector, and this Section shall be construed as having been complied with if
such number of bottles or glass jars contain the full capacity herein required;
provided further, however, that bottles or jars marked "quarter pint" shall
contain not less than thirty (30) drams, "half pint" not less than sixty two
(62) drams, "pint" not less than one hundred and twenty five (125) drams,
"quarts" not less than two hundred and fifty two (252) drams, "three pints" not
less than three hundred and seventy nine (379) drams, "two (2) quarts" not less
than five hundred and six (506) drams; and provided, further, that no bottle or
glass jar shall be considered a legal measure except for the distribution of
milk or cream to consumers.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than two dollars ($2.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense, and the possession of each bottle or glass jar not so marked as
provided in this Section or of a less capacity than marked thereon and used or
to be used, or which has been used by such person for the purpose of containing
milk or cream to be sold or offered for sale in the Village, shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
3-3A-16: BREAD LOAVES:
The standard loaf of bread shall weigh one pound avoirdupois weight. Every loaf
of bread manufactured, procured, or kept for sale or sold in the form of loaves
in the Village shall be of standard weight or one of the following weights:
one-half (1/2) of said standard weight, three-quarters (3/4) of said standard
weight, one and one-quarter (11/4) times said standard weight, one and one-half
(11/2) times said standard weight, or multiples of said standard weight. When
twin or multiple loaves are baked the weight specified in this Section shall
apply to each unit of the twin or multiple loaf.
The weights herein specified shall be construed to mean net weights, to be
determined by the average weight of at least twelve (12) loaves of any one
unit; provided, however, that a variation or tolerance of not more than one
ounce per pound in excess or deficiency from the standard unit or marked weight
shall be allowed, and this Section will be considered to have been complied
with if the weight of the twelve (12) loaves of the same unit averages out the
correct net weight.
Every loaf of bread manufactured, procured, or kept for the purpose of sale,
offered or exposed for sale, or sold in the form of loaves, in the Village,
shall be marked showing the weight of the loaf and the business name and
address of the maker, baker, or manufacturer. If the bread is unwrapped, this
information shall be stated on a label or by pan impression or other mechanical
means, and on wrapped loaves the information shall be stated upon the wrapper.
Each unwrapped loaf of bread, if labeled, shall have affixed thereon in a
conspicuous place, a label of white paper at least one inch square, or if
round, at least one inch in diameter, upon which shall be printed in black or
blue ink in type not smaller or making a less conspicuous letter than the type
commonly known as twelve-point, full-face square Franklin Gothic capital
letters and figures, the weight of the loaf. The business name and address of
the maker, baker, or manufacturer shall also be printed plainly on each label.
If this information is given by pan impression or other mechanical means, the
letters and figures showing the weight shall be plain and legible, not smaller
or making a less conspicuous letter or figure than square full-face Franklin
Gothic capital letters and figures not less than one-half inch (1/2") in
height. In case of wrapped bread the aforesaid information shall be printed
plainly on the wrapper from type not smaller or making a less conspicuous
letter than the type commonly known as twenty four-point, full-face square
Gothic capital letters and figures.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to biscuits, buns, crackers,
scones, or rolls weighing less than four (4) ounces, nor to what is commonly
known as "stale" bread and sold as such, in case the seller shall at the time
of sale expressly state to the buyer that the loaves of bread so sold are
"stale" bread.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense.
3-3A-17: BISCUITS OR ROLLS:
No biscuits, buns, scones, or rolls of bread which weigh less than one ounce or
more than four (4) ounces shall be manufactured, procured, kept for the purpose
of sale, offered or exposed for sale, or sold in the Village; provided,
however, that a variation or tolerance of not more than one ounce per pound in
excess or deficiency from the standard unit weight shall be allowed, and the
standard weights herein specified shall be determined by averaging the weight
of not less than five (5) dozen biscuits, buns, scones, or rolls of bread of
any one unit. This Section will be considered to have been complied with if the
weight of not less than five (5) dozen of the same averages out the correct net
weight. Such biscuits, buns, scones, and rolls of bread are not required to be
labeled.
3-3A-18: SCALES:
Every person selling or offering for sale any service, commodity, produce or
article of merchandise, sold by weight, shall keep and maintain in a
conspicuous place on his premises, scales suitable for weighing such commodity,
produce, or article of merchandise, and shall, whenever requested by the buyer
and in the buyer's presence, weigh the commodity, produce or article of
merchandise sold or offered for sale.
Whenever meat, poultry or other articles of merchandise sold by weight and
prepared or wrapped in advance of being sold, by the retailer, are being
offered for sale, an accurate computing scale of adequate capacity shall be
placed or set no more than thirty feet (30') from the prepackaged display
counter or service area. A prominent and conspicuous sign shall be placed on or
adjacent to the computing scale, such sign shall read 'for customer use', in a
type size no less than two inches (2") in height. Where the pre-packaged
merchandise is marked with weight expressed in the standard avoirdupois pound
and decimal fractions thereof a conversion chart showing the correlation
between the decimal fractions and common fractions of the avoirdupois pound, in
a type size no less than twelve-point, shall be prominently and conspicuously
displayed.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), for each offense.
3-3A-19: WEIGHING LOAD LOTS:
Every load of solid fuel of more than one thousand (1,000) pounds, or of any
other commodity, produce, or other article of merchandise sold in load lots by
weight, delivered by vehicle within the Village, shall be weighed by a Public
Weighmaster. A certificate of weight for each load, issued by such Public
Weighmaster shall be delivered by the driver or person in charge of the vehicle
to the purchaser or consignee of such load, or to his or their agent, at the
time of the delivery and before any of the commodity, produce, or article of
merchandise is removed from the vehicle, or such certificates shall be
delivered to the Inspector of Weights and Measures, or any of his deputies upon
his or their demand.
When delivery is made, in case no person is present to receive such commodity,
produce, or other article, of merchandise, and if the purchaser or consignee,
or his or their agent, cannot be located, then the certificate of weight
hereinbefore provided for shall be posted conspicuously at the place of
delivery before any of the commodity, produce, or article of merchandise is
removed from the vehicle.
No person shall alter any certificate of weight or attempt to use the same for
any other load than the one for which the same was given, or diminish the
quantity of such load after the weighing and before the sale and delivery
thereof.
The weight certificate shall remain at all times on the vehicle conveying the
load until it is delivered by the driver to the purchaser or posted as provided
above at the point of delivery.
Ice sold in load lots by weight is exempted from all of the requirements of
this Section.
3-3A-20: CONTENTS OF CERTIFICATE OF WEIGHT:
The certificate of weight shall show the date of weighing, the gross weight,
the tare and the net weight, the kind and grade of such commodity, the name and
address of the seller and purchaser thereof, the number of the vehicle (if such
vehicle be numbered), the license number of such vehicle, and the name of the
person in charge of such vehicle.
The certificate of weight for each delivery of solid fuel shall also show the
City of manufacture in the case of coke or manufactured fuel and the size of
the solid fuel in one of the following terms only:
   (A)   Lump or block, the general size of which shall be not less than four
inches (4") in diameter.
   (B)   Egg, the general size of which shall be not less than two inches (2")
in diameter.
   (C)   Range, the general size of which shall be not less than one and one-
half inches (11/2") in diameter.
   (D)   Nut or stove, the general size of which shall be not less than one
inch in diameter.
   (E)   Chestnut, the general size of which shall be not less than three-
quarters inch (3/4") in diameter.
   (F)   Pea, buckwheat and small nut, the general size of which shall be not
less than three-eighths inch (3/8") in diameter.
   (G)   Mine run, which shall be coal as received from the mine without any
variation of sizing.
   (H)   Slack and screening, which shall be such other sizes as are not
heretofore specifically designated.
3-3A-21: VERIFICATION OF WEIGHT:
Any person in charge of a vehicle used for delivering in load lots any
commodity within the Village shall, at the request of the Inspector of Weights
and Measures or any of his deputies, or at the request of the purchaser thereof
at any time after the weighing thereof, produce and deliver the required
certificate of weight for the inspection of the Inspector of Weights and
Measures, his deputy, or the purchaser; and shall upon request of any such
person demanding a verification of weight go to a designated public scale
located in the particular locality where the delivery is to be made or to any
private-scale in the particular locality of delivery when the owner thereof
shall consent to such use. The commodity about to be delivered and the vehicle
used for the delivery of the same shall be weighed for the purpose of
ascertaining the gross weight thereof; and the person in charge of the vehicle
making the delivery shall, after such delivery, return forthwith to the same
scales and there weigh such vehicle for the purpose of verifying the net weight
of such commodity as shown by said certificate of weight; provided, however,
that if the seller of such commodity or the person in charge of the vehicle
making the delivery requests the privilege of reweighing such commodity on
another and different scale from that selected by the Inspector of Weights and
Measures, his deputy, or the purchaser, or upon the scale where the commodity
was originally weighed, said person requesting the verification of weight shall
consent to such reweighing on some other scale in the particular locality where
such delivery is to be made or upon said scale of original weighing; and,
provided further, that when the person selling or delivering any load lot of
any commodity, produce or article of merchandise has not, as a Public
Weighmaster, weighed such load lot, and is not interested directly or
indirectly with the Public Weighmaster weighing such commodity, produce, or
article of merchandise in the operation of such Public Weighmaster's scale, it
shall be the duty of the person in charge of the vehicle used in the delivery
thereof to permit such verification of weight upon condition that the Inspector
of Weights and Measures, or his deputy, or the purchaser or consignee making
such request shall have kept such load in view from the location of the scale
where such load was originally weighed by the Public Weighmaster to the point
where such request is made.
3-3A-22: DELIVERY TICKET:
When solid fuel is sold or delivered in lots of less than one thousand (1,000)
pounds or any commodity is weighed by a Public Weighmaster and sold in less
than load lots, the seller shall give a delivery ticket to the purchaser, his
agent, or the person to whom the delivery is to be made, before the delivery of
such commodity, or to the Inspector of Weights and Measures upon his demand.
3-3A-23: CONTENTS OF DELIVERY TICKET:
The said delivery ticket shall bear the date of the weighing, the name and
address of the seller, the license number if the seller be a peddler, the net
weight of each kind of commodity to be delivered, the size in the case of solid
fuel, and the grade thereof.
3-3A-24: MEMORANDUM BY WAREHOUSE OR RAILWAY:
All railway companies and all persons operating elevators or warehouses which
maintain in the Village delivery team track yards equipped with scales, shall,
upon the delivery by them of any hay, straw, grain, or mill-feed to the
consignee or to the person having an order from the consignee for the delivery
thereof, where such commodity is removed from such yards, in wagon-load lots or
in amounts less than load lots, weigh the same and deliver to the person in
charge of any vehicle furnished by the consignee or by the person having his
order, a certificate of weight or delivery ticket, which shall comply with all
the requirements of this Chapter relating thereto, and which shall show the
name or the initials of the railroad company or of the elevator or warehouse
issuing such certificate of weight or delivery ticket, and the location of the
scale upon which such hay, straw, grain, or mill-feed is weighed.
For such weighing and for the issuing of said memorandum a fee of not exceeding
twenty-five cents ($.25) for each load or part of a load so weighed may be
charged and collected.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each offense.
3-3A-25: "NET WEIGHT" DEFINED:
When any commodity is sold subject to Public Weighmaster's weights, the net
weight shown in the weight certificate issued by such Public Weighmasters shall
be taken to be the true avoirdupois net weight of the same, subject to the
right of re-weighing as herein provided. Net weight, within the meaning of this
Chapter, shall be the actual weight of the commodity excluding the weight of
the vehicle, if any, in which it is loaded, and excluding the weight of the
horses and driver of such vehicle or either of them, as the case may be, if
such horses and driver, or either of them, be weighed as part of the tare
weight.
3-3A-26: WEIGHMASTER WEIGHING OWN COMMODITIES:
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent any person
engaged in the business of selling any commodity which is ordinarily delivered
by vehicle, from becoming a Public Weighmaster under Chapter 164 and appointing
Deputy Weighmasters to weigh the commodity being sold and delivered by such
person; and any weight certificate issued by such person, or the deputies
appointed by him covering commodities sold by such person, shall be of the same
effect as the Weight Certificate issued by any other Public Weighmaster.
3-3A-27: OBSTRUCTION OF REWEIGHING:
Any person, selling and delivering or attempting to deliver any load lot of any
commodity that has been re-weighed on the scale of the Public Weighmaster on
which it was originally weighed at his request, who shall refuse or fail to
allow said load to be delivered to the destination it was originally billed or
sent to, or who shall fail or refuse to have the load removed from the vehicle
used in the delivery thereof, or who shall hinder or obstruct the Inspector of
Weights and Measures, or any of his deputies, from obtaining and ascertaining
the net weight of the commodity delivered or attempted to be delivered, shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
3-3A-28: FALSE CERTIFICATES AND DELIVERY TICKETS:
No person shall sell and deliver, or attempt to deliver, any load lot of any
commodity sold in load lot by weight and delivered by vehicle within the
Village, of a quantity less than that called for by the Certificate of Weight;
nor shall any Public Weighmaster or deputy provide the driver or person in
charge of the vehicle used in the delivery thereof, or the person attempting to
deliver the same, with a certificate which does not correctly state the
information required to be given in Section
3-3A-20. No driver or person in charge of such delivery shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to deliver to the Inspector of Weights and Measures or any of his
deputies upon demand, the aforesaid certificate before any part of such load is
removed from the vehicle, nor refuse to comply with his or their request to
reweigh the same in order that the weights stated in such certificate may be
verified.
No person shall request any Public Weighmaster or any of his deputies to weigh
any commodity falsely or incorrectly; nor shall any person request a false or
incorrect certificate of weight or delivery ticket.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each such offense. The penalty provided herein shall be in
addition to any penalty that may be imposed under Sections 164-6 and 164-7;
provided that whenever the reweighing is done on a scale other than the scale
on which the weighing was originally done, a variance of one percent or less in
the net weight of a load lot between the net weight as set forth in the
certificate and the net weight as ascertained by reweighing such load shall not
be considered a violation of this Section.
No person selling, delivering, or attempting to deliver any commodity in load
lots or in amounts less than load lots within the Village, shall provide the
person in charge of the conveyance or the person actually delivering or
attempting to make said delivery, with a false or fraudulent certificate of
weight or delivery ticket, nor provide a certificate of weight or delivery
ticket which is not the result of the actual weighing of the commodity so sold,
delivered, or attempted to be delivered. Any person in charge of the conveyance
or delivering of any commodity who shall have in his possession, or who shall
deliver any false or fraudulent certificate of weight or delivery ticket or any
said ticket or certificate which is not the result of an actual weighing, shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense.
3-3A-29: FALSE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
No person shall sell, offer for sale, or keep for the purpose of sale, any
commodity in quantities or enumeration of less weight or measure than that
represented upon such sale or offer for sale by the vendor or his agent or
employ; nor shall any person sell or offer for sale any commodity in any
receptacle having a smaller capacity than is represented at the time of such
offer or sale. No person shall sell or offer for sale articles of dry or liquid
measurement in other than the legal type of measure required therefor.
No person weighing or measuring any commodity for sale by dry, liquid, lineal,
or superficial measurement, or by any unit of enumeration used in determining
or measuring quantity, or by weight, shall falsify the measure or weight of
such commodity by representing the measure of weight of the same to be either
more or less than the true measure of weight thereof.
It shall be unlawful for any person performing services upon any commodity who
shall determine the charge for such services according to the measure or weight
of the commodity upon which the services are performed, to falsify the measure
or weight of the same by representing the measure of weight to be more than the
true measure or weight thereof.
No person shall deliver to the purchaser or prospective purchaser any commodity
in quantities or enumeration of less weight or measure than that offered for
sale.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense.
3-3A-29.1: DECEPTIVE PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   (A)   1. It shall be unlawful for any person to act, use or employ any
deception, fraud, false pretense, false promise, misrepresentation, or to
conceal, suppress or omit any material fact with intent that others rely upon
such concealment, suppression or omission, in connection with the sale for cash
or on credit or advertisement of any merchandise, whether or not any person has
in fact been misled; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall
apply to the owner or publisher of newspapers, magazines, publications or
printed matter wherein such advertisement appears, or to the owner or operator
of a radio or television station which disseminates such advertisement when the
owner, publisher or operator has no knowledge of the intent, design or purpose
of the advertiser; and provided, further, that nothing herein contained shall
apply to any advertisement which is subject to and complies with the rules and
regulations of, and the statutes administered by the Federal Trade Commission.
      2.   Representing that merchandise is new, if it is deteriorated,
altered, reconditioned, reclaimed, used or second-hand shall be considered a
violation of this Section.
      3.   Representing that merchandise or services are of a particular
standard, grade or quality, or that merchandise is represented to be of a
particular style or model, if it is not, shall be considered a violation of
this Section.
      4.   Failing to deliver ordered merchandise within a period of sixty (60)
days from the date of order or contract, unless otherwise provided therein,
unless the customer is notified in writing of the reason of the delay and such
merchandise is delivered in less than a total of ninety (90) days, or a refund
is offered within ninety (90) days of the date of the order or contract, shall
be considered a violation of this Section.
      5.   Making false or misleading statements of fact concerning the reasons
for, existence of, or amounts of price reductions, or engaging in any other
pricing conduct causing confusion or misunderstanding, shall be considered a
violation of this Section.
      6.   Representing that merchandise or services are those of another,
when, in fact, they are not, shall be considered a violation of this Section.
      7.   Causing confusion or misunderstanding concerning the source,
sponsorship, approval or certification of merchandise or services shall be
considered a violation of this Section.
      8.   Causing confusion or misunderstanding or false or deceptive
representation concerning affiliation, connection or association with, or
certification by another, shall be considered in violation of this Section.
      9.   Representing that merchandise or services have sponsorship approval
concerning the source of or certification of merchandise or services when, in
fact, they do not have such approval or sponsorship, shall be considered a
violation of this Section.
      10.   Failing to state a material fact, if such failure tends to deceive
or mislead, shall be considered a violation of this Section.
      11.   Advertising for sale at a stated price any items when sufficient
quantities of said advertised items are not readily available to be sold to
purchasers at the advertised price during the effective period of the
advertisement for sale, shall be considered a violation of this Section. For
the purposes of this subsection, 'readily available' shall mean available to
the customer in an area of the store normally used to display this type of
merchandise, except in a case where the space available for the items is
limited, a sample of the items may be placed in a prominent location,
accompanied by a prominent, written notice clearly stating that the items are
in stock and may be obtained upon request and, "sufficient quantities" shall
mean available in quantities sufficient to meet reasonably expected customer
demand through medium response.
      12.   Charging a higher amount of tax than the legal rate set forth by
laws and regulations existing at the time of sale, shall be considered a
violation of this Section.
   (B)   1. The term "advertisement" includes the attempt by publication,
dissemination, solicitation or circulation to induce directly or indirectly any
person to enter into any obligation or acquire any title or interest in any
merchandise and includes every word device to disguise any form of business
solicitation by using 'such terms as "renewal", "invoice", "bill", "statement",
or "reminder", to create an impression of existing obligation when them is
none, or other language to mislead any person in relation to any sought after
commercial transaction;
      2.   The term "merchandise" includes any objects, wares, goods,
commodities, intangibles, real estate or services;
      3.   The term "person" includes any natural person or his legal
representative, partnership, corporation (domestic and foreign), company,
trust, business entity or association, and any agent, employee, salesman,
partner, officer, director, member, stockholder, associate, trustee or cestui
que trust thereof;
      4.   The term "sale" includes any sale, offer for sale, or attempt to
sell any merchandise for cash or on credit.
3-3A-29.2: DECEPTIVE PRACTICES; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of Section
3-3A-29.1 shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Any violation of any of the
provisions of Section
3-3A-29.1, in addition to any fine provided for herein, may be grounds for
revocation of any license issued by the Village of River Grove to any such
violator; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed
so as to preclude the revocation of any license for violation of any other
provision of the Municipal Code of River Grove.
3-3A-29.3: LABELING LEAD BASED PAINTS:
Effective July 1, 1972, no person shall sell, or hold for sale, any lead based
coatings or toxic heavy metal based coatings, as defined in Section 78-17.2C,
of this Code, (including paint, lacquer, or other applied liquid surface
coatings, and putty) unless said lead based or toxic heavy metal based coating
is in a secure container bearing a label on its principal display panel on
which appears the following statements:
"WARNING CONTAINS                 DRIED FILM OF THIS SUBSTANCE MAY BE HARMFUL
If EATEN OR CHEWED." "Read Carefully Cautions on Instruction Panel."
The following cautionary statement (or its practical equivalent) shall be
placed on the label, but need not be a part of the warning statement on the
principal display panel:
   "KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN."
"Do not apply on toys and other children's articles, furniture, or interior
surfaces of any dwelling or facility which may be occupied or used by
children."
The blank space in the warning label which follows the word 'contains' shall be
filled with either the word 'Lead' and/or toxic heavy metal substance which is
present in the amount specified in the definitions contained in Section 78-
17.2C.
The statements on labels required under the provisions of this Section shall be
made in conformance with the following requirements:
(A) The statements shall be presented in such a manner as to be generally
parallel to the declaration of identity and to the base on which the package
rests as it is designed to be displayed and shall be separated from other
wording or designs.
(B) The word 'WARNING' shall be in capital letters and of a size not less than
eighteen-point type and the statements:
"CONTAINS DRIED FILM OF THIS SUBSTANCE MAY BE HARMFUL IF EATEN OR CHEWED."
"KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN."
shall be in capital letters and of a size not less than twelve-point type:
(C) The statement
"Read Carefully Cautions on Instruction Panel" and the instructions (or its
practical equivalent):
"Do not apply on toys and other children's articles, furniture, or interior
surfaces of any dwelling or facility which may be occupied or used by
children," shall be in a size not less than ten-point type.
(D) In a case where the size of the container is too small to accommodate a
label of sufficient size to allow the use of the type size set forth herein, a
reduced size of type, which is consistent with other printing on the panel
involved may be used, but in no case shall the size be less than six-point type
unless an exemption has been granted under Section 3 (c) of the Federal
Hazardous Substance Act and Section 191.63 of the regulations under the Federal
Hazardous Substance Labeling Act.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense.
3-3A-30: ENFORCEMENT:
The Department of Consumer Sales, Weights and Measures shall enforce the
provisions of this Chapter.
3-3A-31: PENALTY:
Any person, including any Weighmaster or Deputy Weighmaster, that shall violate
any of the provisions of this Chapter shall, when no other specific penalty is
herein provided, be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1975-12, 10-30-75)
CHAPTER 4
PLATS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Approval by Board
3-4-2: Establishing Ownership
3-4-3: When and How to be Approved
3-4-4: Must Conform to State Statute
3-4-5: Public Streets and Highways
3-4-6: Underground Improvements
3-4-7: Custody of Plats
3-4-8: Open for Inspections
3-4-1: APPROVAL BY BOARD:
Any person hereafter subdividing blocks, lots or sub-lots, or any part thereof,
which are situated within the corporate limits of the Village, shall make a map
or plat of such subdivision, and before recording the same in the Recorders
office of the County of Cook, as provided by law, shall submit the same to the
Board of Trustees of said Village for their approval.
3-4-2: ESTABLISHING OWNERSHIP:
No plat, map or subdivision of any block, lot or sub-lot, or part thereof, or
any piece or pieces or parcel of land, shall be approved by the Board of
Trustees until the same shall have been properly certified by a surveyor and
acknowledged by the owner, as provided by the general laws of the State; and
until the owner or owners shall have made oath that he believes, or they
believe that he is or they are the owner or owners in fee simple, of the
property described in said plat; nor until a deposit of money shall have been
made with the Clerk, sufficient to pay the fees of the Recorder of Cook County,
Illinois, for recording the same.
3-4-3: WHEN AND HOW TO BE APPROVED:
Said Board of Trustees shall examine the plat, map or subdivision, presented
for approval not earlier than the next meeting after compliance with the
provisions of Sections 1 and 2 of this Chapter, and shall either approve or
reject the same; and if approved the Clerk shall duly certify to the approval
thereof, under the Corporate seal of the Village, and file the same for record
in the said Recorders office.
3-4-4: MUST CONFORM TO STATE STATUTE:
All subdivision plats and all other plats submitted to the President and Board
of Trustees for approval shall conform in all respects with the provisions of
the State of Illinois, relating thereto, and the provisions of this Code.
3-4-5: PUBLIC STREETS AND HIGHWAYS:
When any plat is hereafter presented to the President and Board of Trustees for
approval which purports to dedicate any public street or highway, the approval
thereof shall be withheld until such time as the owner of said property has
either installed a public sewer and water supply pipes in and along that
portion of said property proposed to be dedicated for public street purposes,
or has petitioned the Village to construct such improvement by special
assessment, and special assessment proceedings have been confirmed in court,
and the contract for such work has been let, pursuant to law.
3-4-6: UNDERGROUND IMPROVEMENTS:
That the plats heretofore prepared by Consoer, Older & Quinlan, showing the
underground improvements in the Village of River Grove, are hereby declared to
be the property of the Village of River Grove.
3-4-7: CUSTODY OF PLATS:
Said plats shall be in the care and custody of the Clerk or any other person
who may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
3-4-8: OPEN FOR INSPECTION:
Said plats shall be open for inspection to the Public at all reasonable hours.
CHAPTER 5
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Prohibition Area; South
3-5-2: Prohibition Area; North
3-5-3: Plans and Specifications; Permit
3-5-4: Interpretation
3-5-5: Establishment
3-5-6: Boundaries Fixed
3-5-7: Extensions to be Approved
3-5-8: Burial Outside Enclosures Prohibited
3-5-9: Burials Must Conform to Rules
3-5-10: Cemetery Inspector
3-5-11: Owners to Furnish Plats
3-5-12: Permission For Extension
3-5-13: Disposition of Inspection Fees
3-5-14: Interpretation
3-5-15: Disinterment of Dead Bodies; Fine
3-5-1: PROHIBITION AREA; SOUTH:
No cemetery or other burial place or place for burying the dead shall be
hereafter established, located or permitted within that part of the Village, or
within the territory lying outside of the corporate limits of that part of said
Village, and within one mile of said corporate limits, lying south of the right
of way of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway as now located through
said Village.
3-5-2: PROHIBITION AREA; NORTH:
No cemetery, or other burial place, or place for burying the dead, shall be
hereafter established, located or permitted within that part of the Village, or
within the territory lying outside of the corporate limits of that part of said
Village, and within one mile of said corporate limits, lying north of the right
of way of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway, as now located through
said Village, except by permission first had and obtained from the President
and Board of Trustees of said Village.
3-5-3: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS; PERMIT:
When any person shall desire to lay out and establish a cemetery or other
burial place or place for burying the dead, in that part of the territory above
described, lying north of said Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway right of
way, such person shall first present to the President and Board of Trustees, a
plat showing the exact place where said cemetery is desired to be located, and
general outline, giving the lots, walks and drives, and the amount of territory
contained therein, so that the President and Board of Trustees can have a clear
knowledge of the purposes of creating or laying out said cemetery, and such
person shall, on request of said President and Board of Trustees, furnish to
said President and Board of Trustees, a plain concise statement of the
condition in which said cemetery is to be kept, and the manner in which the
dead are to be buried therein and any other information that said President and
Board of Trustees may desire with reference thereto, and if said President and
Board of Trustees shall be satisfied that the cemetery or burial place so
desired to be established, will not be a menace to the health or welfare of the
citizens or any persons residing in said Village and that said cemetery or
burial place will be operated in accordance with the health laws of said
Village, said President and Board of Trustees may grant said person so applying
for the same, a permit to establish such cemetery or burial place according to
the plans and specifications so furnished, to the President and Board of
Trustees, which plans and specifications shall be filed and kept in the records
of said Village.
3-5-4: INTERPRETATION:
This Chapter shall not be construed to interfere with the cemeteries already
established and existing within the corporate limits of said Village, and shall
not be construed to prohibit said cemeteries heretofore established and
existing within the corporate limits of said Village, or within the territory
lying within one mile of the corporate limits, from acquiring by purchase, gift
or grant, any additional land necessary for their cemeteries; provided that no
additions to said cemeteries shall be made south of the right of way of the
Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul railway as now located through said Village.
3-5-5: ESTABLISHMENT:
That the further establishment of cemeteries, either within the corporate
limits of River Grove or within one (1) mile thereof, shall be and the same is
hereby prohibited.
3-5-6: BOUNDARIES FIXED:
The boundaries of all cemeteries within the limits of said Village are hereby
fixed at the enclosures now surrounding any such cemeteries.
3-5-7: EXTENSIONS TO BE APPROVED:
No corporation, person or persons shall enlarge the boundaries of any cemetery
within the limits of the Village as the same are now recorded, unless the
Village Board shall first fix and determine the boundaries of any cemetery so
to be enlarged.
3-5-8: BURIAL OUTSIDE ENCLOSURES PROHIBITED:
No corpse shall be interred in any place within the limits of the Village of
River Grove not actually used as a cemetery, or within the enclosure of a
cemetery, except as hereinafter provided.
3-5-9: BURIALS MUST CONFORM TO RULES:
It shall be lawful to inter dead bodies within the limits of any cemetery
established and used as a cemetery under such rules and regulations as may from
time to time be made by the Village Board, but the burial of any corpse outside
of such limits and within said Village shall be deemed a violation of this
Chapter. (1964 Code)
3-5-10: CEMETERY INSPECTOR:
The President by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint a
responsible and qualified resident of the Village to act as Cemetery Inspector,
who shall receive such compensation for his services as the Board of Trustees
may from time to time fix. He shall report monthly to the President and Board
of Trustees as to inspections made and the amount of inspection fees charged
against the owners and operators of cemeteries legally within the limits of the
Village. The amount of fee for each and every inspection made by said inspector
shall be two dollars ($2.00) for each grave inspected, same to be paid by the
cemetery where said grave is located, and it shall be the duty of such cemetery
inspector to see that the legal requirements of the Department of Health of the
State of Illinois are complied with by the cemetery and that any and all
Village laws in relation thereto are enforced. No inspection fee, or charge of
any sort, shall be made for burials for which no fee is charged by the
cemetery, to-wit:
Charitable, military, pauper or child burials. (Ord. 1965-13; 6-3-65)
3-5-11: OWNERS TO FURNISH PLATS:
When ordered by President and Village Board of Trustees, the owners or owner of
any cemetery lying within the Village limits shall furnish for the use of the
Village, and without cost, a map or plat of said cemetery giving the correct
legal description of the same.
3-5-12: PERMISSION FOR EXTENSION:
Hereinafter no permission shall be granted to extend the boundaries of any
cemetery within the Village without the payment of a just and adequate
compensation for the loss of taxable property occasioned by such extension; the
amount of compensation to be fixed by the Village Board. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
3-5-13: DISPOSITION OF INSPECTION FEES:
All sums of money paid for the inspection of graves, as herein aforesaid shall
be paid into and become a part of the general funds of the said Village of
River Grove. (Ord. 1965-13; 6-3-65)
3-5-14: INTERPRETATION:
Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to compel the Village Board
to grant any permission to extend or enlarge any cemetery or change the
boundaries of any now existing; but the Village Board may at any time refuse
such permission.
3-5-15: DISINTERMENT OF DEAD BODIES; FINE:
It shall be lawful for the court to order the offender to disinter any and all
dead bodies that he may prove to have been buried contrary to the provisions of
this Chapter; and any person who shall fail or refuse to remove such dead body
shall be fined five dollars ($5.00) for each day the same shall remain unmoved
after such order of court. It shall be lawful for any person, under the
direction of the Village Board, to disinter any corpse buried contrary to the
provisions of this Chapter and to remove and reinter the same within the lawful
bounds of any cemetery. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 6
FORESTRY
SECTION:
3-6-1: Creation Of Tree Board; Compensation
3-6-2: Tree Board; Duties
3-6-3: Operation
3-6-4: Division Of Forestry Established
3-6-5: Division Of Forestry; Duties
3-6-6: Definitions
3-6-7: Permits Required
3-6-8: Parkway Trees Permitted
3-6-9: Parkway Trees Prohibited
3-6-10: Location Of Parkway Trees
3-6-11: Prohibited Planting And Placement
3-6-12: Public Tree Care
3-6-13: Tree Topping
3-6-14: Encroachment On Public Ways
3-6-15: Maintenance Of Trees And Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private
Property
3-6-16: Dutch Elm Disease
3-6-17: Stump Removal
3-6-18: Attachments To Trees
3-6-19: Gas Pipe Requirement
3-6-20: Injury To Roots
3-6-21: Interference With Personnel
3-6-22: Weeds, Nuisance Grass, Trees Or Bushes, Diseased Elm Trees
3-6-23: Arborist's License
3-6-24: Penalty
3-6-1: CREATION OF TREE BOARD; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created and established a Village Tree Board which shall
consist of at least five (5) members, citizens and residents of the Village,
who shall be appointed by the President by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, and who shall serve at their pleasure. Members of the Tree Board
shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-2: TREE BOARD; DUTIES:
It shall be the responsibility of the board to study, investigate, counsel and
develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be
presented annually to the Corporate Authorities and upon their acceptance and
approval shall constitute the official comprehensive Village tree plan for the
Village. The board, when requested by the Corporate Authorities, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any matter or
question coming within the scope of its work. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-3: OPERATION:
The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations and
keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-4: DIVISION OF FORESTRY ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a Division of Forestry, which shall be under the direct
supervision and control of the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-
1995)
3-6-5: DIVISION OF FORESTRY; DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Division of Forestry to attend to all matters
pertaining to the planting, trimming, spraying, removal and general maintenance
of all trees, weeds, plants, shrubs and all varieties thereof in and upon all
public areas. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
NOXIOUS WEEDS AND SEEDS: Those plants together with their seeds which are
defined as noxious in the Noxious Weed Law of the State of Illinois, being 505
Illinois Compiled Statutes 100/1 et seq.
PARKWAY TREE: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets and public ways.
SHRUB: A woody plant of relatively low height, distinguished from a tree by
having several stems rather than a single trunk.
TREE: A usually tall, woody plant, distinguished from a shrub by having a
comparatively greater height and, characteristically, a single trunk rather
than several stems. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-7: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for a property owner or an agent of an owner to plant or remove,
cut down, destroy, break, deface, trim, or in any way cut, injure or interfere
with any tree, or any shrub in any public way, within the Village without first
having secured a permit so to do. Applications for such permits shall be made
to the Village Clerk who will refer the applications to the Tree Board for
investigation and approval. Permits shall be valid for thirty (30) days from
the date of issuance by the Village. (Ord. 2019-06, 4-4-2019)
3-6-8: PARKWAY TREES PERMITTED:
Trees to be planted in the Village parkways shall be selected from the
following list of authorized tree species. No species other than those included
in this list may be planted as parkway trees without written permission of the
Tree Board.
Small trees: Up to twenty five feet (25') at full growth. Crab apple,
flowering; pear, Bradford; Golden raintree; serviceberry, single stem; Amur
maple.
Large trees: Over twenty five feet (25') at full growth. Maples - Crimson king,
sugar, red, Norway; ginko; oak - red, English, white, bur; ash-blue, autum
purple, white; honey locust; linden - littleleaf, silver, redmond; American
elm- disease free. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-9: PARKWAY TREES PROHIBITED:
The following list of trees shall not be planted in Village parkways because of
commonly acknowledged high maintenance and undesirable characteristics (i.e.,
brittle wood, cavity prone, excessive deadwood, disease susceptible, vision
restricting due to foliage shape at full growth, etc.) associated with the use
of these species in urban environment:
Box elder; cottonwood; silver maple; tree of heaven; catalpa; mulberry; poplar
(except tulip tree); willows; elms - Siberian and Chinese; all types of fruit
trees producing fruit, typically for human consumption; conifer - i.e.,:
spruce, pine that can restrict safe visual contact of pedestrians and vehicles,
due to their natural foliage. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-10: LOCATION OF PARKWAY TREES:
All parkway trees shall be planted using approved horticultural methods. Trees
shall be planted on the center line of the parkway or in line with the majority
of established trees. Planting of trees may be prohibited if such planting or
care of plantings interfere with existing utility locations, or where usage,
repair, and maintenance of the utility will cause severe stress to the tree,
especially when mature. The following specifications shall be adhered to:
   (A)   Spacing: Small trees may be planted no closer together than twenty
five feet (25'); large trees may be planted no closer together than thirty feet
(30').
   (B)   Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: No tree shall be planted at a
distance of less than two feet (2') from any curb or sidewalk, subject to
additional restrictions herein contained.
   (C)   Distance From Street Corners And Fireplugs: No tree shall be planted
at a distance of less than thirty five feet (35') from any street corner and
ten feet (10') from a fireplug.
   (D)   Utilities: No trees other than those listed as small trees herein
shall be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-11: PROHIBITED PLANTING AND PLACEMENT:
No rock gardens, boulders, rocks, benches or fences shall be built or
maintained in any public way or parkway; provided, however, that appropriate
plantings may be permitted in those parkway areas intercepted between the
public curb and the intersection of two (2) public sidewalks, with the prior
approval of the Tree Board, upon the application and issuance of a permit as
herein provided. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-12: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
The Village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys and other public
areas or ways, as may be necessary to assure public safety or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The Tree Board may
cause the removal of any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition
or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the
planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the
selection and location of said trees is in accordance with this chapter and
that all other applicable requirements are met. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-13: TREE TOPPING:
It is unlawful, as a normal practice, for any person, firm or Village
department to top any parkway tree or other tree of public property. Topping is
defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
(3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or trees under utility wires or other obstructions or other pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter, at the
determination of the Tree Board. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-14: ENCROACHMENT ON PUBLIC WAYS:
Every owner of every tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
Village shall prune the branches so that such branches will not obstruct the
use of such way or the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any
street intersection or traffic control device or sign, and so that there will
be a clear space of ten feet (10') above the surface of the street and eight
feet (8') above the surface of the sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead,
diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to the safety of the public. The Village shall have the right to prune
any tree or shrub on private property, upon the failure of the owner to do so,
to eliminate the dangers described in this section. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-15: MAINTENANCE OF TREES AND DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY:
The Village shall have the right to maintain trees or cause the removal of any
dead or diseased trees on private property within the Village, when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which
constitutes a potential threat to other trees within the Village. The Tree
Board shall cause the owners of such trees to be notified in writing, to either
perform specified maintenance or remove the trees at their own expense within
thirty (30) days after the service of the notice. In the event of their failure
to comply, the Village shall cause the maintenance or removal of such trees and
shall charge the cost thereof to such owners. In the event that the specified
maintenance concerns a tree which extends beyond the boundaries of the owner's
property and encroaches upon neighboring property, or the removal notice
concerns a tree that is in excess of sixteen feet (16') in height, the owner
shall secure the services of a licensed arborist to perform such maintenance or
removal. (Ord. 2019-06, 4-4-2019)
3-6-16: DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
Any species or variety of elm tree that is dead or substantially dead and all
dead elmwood to which the bark is still attached and which, because of its
condition may serve as a breeding place for European elm bark beetles and any
tree or part thereof, whether living or dead, infected with a fungus disease of
elms caused by Graphium ulmi, commonly known as Dutch elm disease or elm blight
is hereby declared to be a nuisance. It is unlawful to permit any tree or part
thereof in such condition or so infected to remain in the Village.
   (A)   Inspections; Notification: Members of the Division of Forestry are
hereby authorized to inspect and examine, between the hours of eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. any tree in the Village on public or
private property and to remove specimens as required to determine whether or
not it is infected. Upon discovering that any such tree is so infected, the
owner or occupant of the premises shall be notified of this fact in writing, by
personal service, or, if such owner or occupant cannot be found, by registered
or certified mail addressed to their last known address.
   (B)   Owner To Remove: It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any
property upon which such infected tree or part thereof exists to have the same
removed and burned within ten (10) days from the date of the service of said
notice. The removal and burning shall be under the supervision and direction of
the Division of Forestry. If the owner or occupant fails to comply with said
notice, or cannot be found, the Director of Public Works is hereby authorized
to cause the removal and destruction of such tree.
   (C)   Cost Of Removal; Lien: The Village shall collect the cost of such
removal and destruction from the owner of such property and shall cause a lien
for such cost to be filed upon the real estate affected, as provided by law.
(Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-17: STUMP REMOVAL:
All stumps of parkway trees and those on other public property shall be removed
below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project
above the surface of the ground. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-18: ATTACHMENTS TO TREES:
It is unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement, notice, wire or rope to any
tree or shrub in any public way or place, except for the support thereof. (Ord.
1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-19: GAS PIPE REQUIREMENT:
It is the duty and obligation of any person, firm or corporation maintaining
any gas pipe in the Village to keep such pipes free from leaks so that no
injury shall be done thereby to any trees or shrubs. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-20: INJURY TO ROOTS:
Anyone making an excavation in any public way or place shall take proper care
to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub wherever possible. (Ord.
1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-21: INTERFERENCE WITH PERSONNEL:
It is unlawful to prevent, delay or interfere with the members of the Tree
Board, Division of Forestry or Public Works in the performance of any of their
duties under this chapter. (Ord. 1995-01, 4-6-1995)
3-6-22: WEEDS, NUISANCE GRASS, TREES OR BUSHES, DISEASED ELM TREES:
   (A)   Prohibited Conditions: It is unlawful for the owner of any real estate
in the Village to cause, suffer or permit:
      1.   Any noxious weed or plant producing noxious weed seeds to grow or
produce seed on the real estate;
      2.   Grass or other weeds to grow to a height in excess of six inches
(6") on the real estate;
      3.   Any vegetation including any trees or bushes to exist on the real
property in a state that constitutes a nuisance to other real or personal
property or person, or presents a dangerous or unsafe condition with respect to
a person or any property; or
      4.   Elm trees infected with Dutch elm disease or ash trees infected with
the emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire) to exist on the real
estate.
   (B)   Notice Of Violation: The owner of any real property on which such
weeds, grass, diseased trees, or other nuisance vegetations are found growing
shall be notified of that fact by the Division of Forestry, and that compliance
with the provisions of this chapter must be had within thirty (30) days from
the date of such notice. The notice shall advise the owner that if the owner of
the property refuses, neglects or fails to abate the condition in a timely
manner, the Village may abate the condition and collect from the owner of the
private property the reasonable cost thereof. The notice shall be personally
served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to whom was sent the tax
bill for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding year. The
notice shall be delivered or sent both before and after the cutting, trimming,
or removal of weeds, grass, trees, or bushes on the property, and state the
substance of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7 and 11-20-12 and the
substance of this section. The notice shall identify the property, by common
description, and the location and identity of the conditions to be abated, and
the identity and location of any diseased tree(s) to be removed.
   (C)   Division Of Forestry May Abate Condition: In addition to any fine or
penalty provided for the violation of the provisions of this chapter, if the
owner fails to abate the condition(s) within thirty (30) days of delivery of
notice required under subsection (B) of this section, the members of the
Division of Forestry may enter upon said property and cut the weeds or grass,
trim the trees or bushes, remove noxious weeds, nuisance bushes or trees in
such manner to effect compliance with this chapter, and if applicable, may
remove elm trees infected with Dutch elm disease or ash trees infected with the
emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire). The Division of Forestry
shall maintain record of all costs incurred by the Village in abating the
condition(s) and the costs incurred by the Village shall be recovered in the
manner provided by law, including the filing of a lien against the real
property.
   (D)   Notice Of Lien: The Division of Forestry or the person performing the
service by authority of the Village, in his or its own name, shall file a
notice of lien against the property within sixty (60) days after such cost and
expense is incurred by the Village. The notice of lien shall be served upon the
owner of the real property and filed in the Office of the Recorder of Cook
County, and shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      3.   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
Village.
The notice of lien shall be personally served on, or sent by certified mail to,
the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property
for the last preceding year. The notice shall be delivered or sent to the owner
of the real property after the cutting, trimming, or removal of weeds, grass,
trees, or bushes on the property.
   (E)   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of
or persons interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the
lien shall be released by the Village or person in whose name the lien has been
filed and the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of
lien. (Ord. 2007-22, 9-6-2007)
3-6-23: ARBORIST'S LICENSE:
It is unlawful to engage in the business or occupation of pruning, treating or
removing street or parkway trees within the Village, or pruning, treating or
removing trees located upon private property in need of such work under section
3-6-15 of this chapter, without first applying for and receiving a license so
to do; provided, however, that no license shall be required of any public
service company or the holder of a valid license issued by another licensing
authority in the State. (Ord. 2019-06, 4-4-2019)
3-6-24: PENALTY:
Any fine or penalty imposed upon conviction for a violation of this chapter,
subject to statutory limitations, shall be in an amount not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day or part
thereof that a violation continues after the date of the notice required. (Ord.
2019-06, 4-4-2019)
CHAPTER 7
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
3-7-1: Purpose And Scope
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Annual Registration Required
3-7-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
3-7-5: Action On Permit Applications
3-7-6: Effect Of Permit
3-7-7: Revised Permit Drawings
3-7-8: Insurance
3-7-9: Indemnification
3-7-10: Security
3-7-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
3-7-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
3-7-13: General Construction Standards
3-7-14: Traffic Control
3-7-15: Location Of Facilities
3-7-16: Construction Methods And Materials
3-7-17: Vegetation Control
3-7-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
3-7-19: Cleanup And Restoration
3-7-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
3-7-21: Variances
3-7-22: Penalties
3-7-23: Enforcement
3-7-24: Severability
3-7-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   (E)   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society For Testing And Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear runout area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside Design
Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of River Grove.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The village director of public works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The village engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
village engineer and/or director of public works to pose an unreasonable and
imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance of the environment, including, but not limited to,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
3-7-4 and
3-7-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include
any real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
3-7-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two- way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of River Grove.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2011-27,
12-1-2011)
3-7-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
3-7-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 2011-
27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   (A)   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any village right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2)
adds a new facility, 3) disrupts the right of way (as defined in this chapter),
or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility
on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the village director of public works and obtaining a
permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
   (B)   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a) A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b) An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
3-7-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
3-7-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
3-7-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water reclamation
district, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee set forth in the current fee schedule of the village.
No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the village
engineer and/or director of public works within a reasonable time after filing.
If the application does not conform to the requirements of applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the village engineer and/or
director of public works shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor. If the village engineer and/or director of public works are
satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter
and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the village
engineer and/or director of public works shall issue a permit therefor as soon
as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the village engineer and/or director of
public works, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in
full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The director of
public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the director of public works fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
3-7-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   (A)   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   (B)   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
3-7-21 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-8: INSURANCE:
   (A)   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections (A)1 and (A)2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         (a) Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death to
each person;
         (b) Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage resulting
from any one accident; and
         (c) Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village President of such intent to cancel or
not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection (A) of this section, or the requirements of
subsections (B), (C) and (D) of this section. A utility that elects to self-
insure shall provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements
required under subsection (A) of this section, such as evidence that the
utility is a "private self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   (F)   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
(All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.) (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-
2011)
3-7-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-10: SECURITY:
   (A)   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the village engineer and/or director of public works,
and may also include reasonable, directly related costs that the village
estimates are likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such
restoration. Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit
will be performed in phases in multiple locations in the village, with each
phase consisting of construction of facilities in one location or a related
group of locations, and where construction in another phase will not be
undertaken prior to substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase
or phases, the village engineer and/or director of public works may, in the
exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of
security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under the
permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be equal
to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of
this subsection for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection (C) of this section.
   (F)   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection (C) of this section.
   (G)   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-
1-2011)
3-7-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   (D)   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection (A)
of this section.
   (E)   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection (C) of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   (A)   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less
than thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   (B)   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   (C)   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2011-27,
12-1-2011)
3-7-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   (A)   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   (B)   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the village engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the village engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   (A)   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   (B)   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   (C)   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior
to beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any
residence, business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident,
business or institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such
work; provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
3-7-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   (A)   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the village engineer and/or director of public
works determines that the proposed location will require the relocation or
displacement of any of the village's utility facilities or will otherwise
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any of the village's utility
facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         (a) Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         (b) Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6m) behind the face of the
curb, where available;
         (c) Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2m) outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d) No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e) Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         (a) The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         (b) A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a highway
only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c) In the case of an underground power or communication line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3m) of the right
of way line or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a) It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         (b) Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3m) of the right of way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c) Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a) The design materials and construction methods will provide maximum
maintenance free service life; and
         (b) Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a) The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b) The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c) The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d) The proposed method of attachment;
         (e) The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f) The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g) The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h) The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2011-
27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   (A)   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         (a) Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the village
engineer and/or director of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits
for boring or jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in
advance of boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48)
hours after boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open,
they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be
designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely
support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the
boring or jacking operation.
         (b) Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c) Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25mm).
         (d) Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         (e) Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         (a) Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the practicable
minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only one-half (1/2)
of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the village engineer and/or director of public
works.
         (b) Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         (c) Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         (a) Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b) For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the engineer and/or director of public works, the utility, at its
expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the engineer and/or director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection (A)4
is permitted under section
3-7-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a) Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the engineer and/or director of public works.
         (b) Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon as
practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c) All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d) For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         (a) Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the highway
and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either by one
piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b) The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c) In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall be
furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type pipe shall
be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d) In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         (e) In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f) If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines, communication, cable or  30 inches (0.8m), 18 to 24 inches
video service lines                      (0.6m), as determined by village
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   (B)   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         (a) Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communication lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         (b) Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c) Underground Facilities:
            (1) Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2) If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3) Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         (d) Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a) The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b) Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c) Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines or
toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d) Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the engineer and/or director of public works. With
the approval of the engineer and/or director of public works, shrubbery
surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free area. The
housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to
blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the director of public
works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be
obtained from the village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the engineer and/or director of
public works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
are those set forth in this code.
   (E)   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 2011-
27, 12-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
3-7-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   (A)   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society Of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director of public works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   (A)   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
   (B)   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the village engineer
and/or director of public works determines that such removal will be in the
best interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the
village does not direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it,
by giving notice of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be
deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the
facility by another utility or person. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the village engineer and/or director of
public works. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to
restore the right of way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period provided in
this section may be extended by the village engineer and/or director of public
works for good cause shown. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
village engineer and/or director of public works or his or her duly authorized
agent of the emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken
for protection of the traveling public and what will be required to make the
necessary repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with
the free movement of traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-21: VARIANCES:
   (A)   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the director of
public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority To Grant Variances: The director of public works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The director of public works may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the director of public works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the director
of public works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the village board, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
village clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The village board shall commence its
consideration of the appeal at the board's next regularly scheduled meeting
occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The village
board shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-
2011)
3-7-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
3-7-24: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 2011-27, 12-1-2011)
CHAPTER 8
REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE USE AND MAINTENANCE
OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-8-1: Control And Management By Village Board
3-8-2: Dedication
3-8-3: Parkways
3-8-4: Permission To Beautify Parkways
3-8-5: Maintenance Of Parkway
3-8-6: Grade
3-8-7: House Numbering
3-8-8: Supervision
3-8-9: Construction; Permit Required; Application
3-8-10: Construction; Bond
3-8-11: Construction; Specifications
3-8-12: Injury To New Pavement Or Paver Improved Sidewalks
3-8-13: Repairs
3-8-14: Defects
3-8-15: Obstruction
3-8-16: Barricades
3-8-17: Display Of Merchandise; Writing On Pavement; Public Postings
3-8-18: Encroachment
3-8-19: Injuring Surfaces
3-8-20: Deposits On Streets, Alleys, Parkways Or Other Municipal Property
3-8-21: Deposits On Sidewalks
3-8-22: Obstructing Drains/Improper Disposal
3-8-23: Poles And Wires
3-8-24: Gas Pumps
3-8-25: Playing Games
3-8-26: Openings, Stairways
3-8-27: Barbed Wire Fences
3-8-28: Snow Removal
3-8-29: Reimbursement Of Village Expenditures By Developers/Owners
3-8-30: Fines And Penalties
3-8-1: CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT BY VILLAGE BOARD:
All streets, public alleys, thoroughfares, sidewalks and other related property
of the village shall be under the control and management of the president and
board of trustees, unless said street or right of way is under the jurisdiction
of the state of Illinois or county of Cook in which case such street or right
of way shall be subject to the laws and regulations imposed upon same by the
state of Illinois or county of Cook. No additional streets or alleys shall be
created, and no existing streets or alleys shall be closed, without the
permission of the village board. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-2: DEDICATION:
When any plat is submitted to the board for approval or when any portion of
land is to be dedicated to the village for a public thoroughfare, such
dedication or plat shall be accompanied by an instrument conveying full title
to the village, in the portion to become a public thoroughfare. (Ord. 2011-18,
9-1-2011)
3-8-3: PARKWAYS:
For the purpose of this chapter, "parkway" shall mean that strip of land
paralleling or running adjacent to a lot line of a private property owner and
any improved public street or thoroughfare, which generally exists between the
public sidewalk and improved public thoroughfare or street. All parkways that
the village has beautified shall be replaced as beautified after any
construction work impacts the parkway. Paving of parkways by an adjoining
property owner is prohibited without a license from the village. No area of a
right of way between the street and the adjoining owner's property shall be
used for parking of any vehicle, storage or any other purpose without a license
from the village. Any pavement, whether concrete, asphalt, block or gravel,
installed after September 1, 2011, in any parkway for parking or storage
purposes shall be torn out at the property owner's expense and the property
owner shall be subject to a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
a day for each day the parkway remains paved in violation of this provision.
(Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-4: PERMISSION TO BEAUTIFY PARKWAYS:
   (A)   The village hereby grants a revocable permission for each citizen to
beautify the portion of land owned by the village and located between his or
her lot line and the adjoining curb line; provided, however, that no
encumbrance other than single stem deciduous trees and grass shall be planted
or installed in this area. All other plantings, flowers, tree wells, and
decorative rocks may only be established thereon with the written consent and
approval of the director of public works. Such revocable permission shall
include all other rights of possession exercisable against all but the duly
appointed or elected representatives of the village acting in an official
capacity. Any action for trespass may be brought by the adjoining owner with
regard to such portion of land, exclusive of the area occupied by the public
sidewalk.
   (B)   Fences, fence posts, wires and any other type of encumbrance are
strictly prohibited. No person residing on property abutting on the village
streets shall construct or erect any mailbox, gateposts, fences, columns or any
other structure above grade level within the parkway. The village shall not be
responsible for any damage caused by village snowplows or other road
maintenance equipment to any improvement, beautification, structure or
appurtenance within the parkway area. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-5: MAINTENANCE OF PARKWAY:
It shall be the duty of each person residing on property abutting the village
streets to maintain the area between his or her lot line and the curb line free
from weeds and other noxious herbage or matter. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-6: GRADE:
Grade levels prevailing on September 1, 2011, shall be the official grades for
all thoroughfares flanked by one or more houses; provided, however, that in any
block where no houses are located, no grade level will be deemed to exist.
Prior to the erection of any edifice in any block where no grade level is
established, the owner or contractor creating such edifice shall make
application to the village building department for the establishment of a grade
level. The term "grade level" with regard to existing levels shall be
understood to mean the crown of any thoroughfare currently maintained by the
village, county or state. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-7: HOUSE NUMBERING:
Each house in the village shall be designated by a house number, and such
number shall be visible in the front thereof and be of such size and clarity as
to be easily deciphered from the curb line of the street. Each house in the
village which is also serviced by and accessible from a public alley shall
further be designated by a house number, and such number shall be visible in
the rear thereof and be of such size and clarity as to be easily deciphered
from the curb line of the street or alley. A number shall be assigned to each
house by the building commissioner. The owner of any house or building in the
village who does not ascertain and post the house number in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day said violation exists. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-8: SUPERVISION:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the village
shall be under the supervision of the public works director, who shall enforce
all provisions of this code relating to such public places, except traffic
regulations. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-9: CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any sprinkling systems, pavement or
any other improvement upon or within any public street, sidewalk, alley or
other public way, or to repair the same, without first having secured a permit
for the desired improvement. Application for such permit shall be made to the
building commissioner and shall state the location of the intended system,
pavement or repair, the extent thereof and the person or firm who is to do the
actual construction work. No such permit shall be issued except on order of the
village board. The village shall not be responsible for any damage caused by
village snowplows or other road maintenance equipment to any system, pavement,
or other improvement within the parkway area. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-10: CONSTRUCTION; BOND:
Each applicant for a construction permit under this chapter shall file a bond
in an amount equal to two (2) times the building department's estimated cost of
the improvement up to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), with surety to be
approved by the village board, conditioned to indemnify the village for any
loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the
same. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-11: CONSTRUCTION; SPECIFICATIONS:
All streets and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the village board.
(Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-12: INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENT OR PAVER IMPROVED SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or injure
any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a
warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly laid pavement
regardless of any warning sign or barricade. Further it shall be unlawful to
drive any vehicle upon or injure any newly paver sidewalk pavement unless the
crossing of the paver sidewalk pavement occurs at a point of an approved means
of ingress or egress to the adjoining property. Any individual or entity in
violation of this provision shall be responsible for any and all costs incurred
by the village in repairing and/or replacing any damage to the improvement.
(Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-13: REPAIRS:
All public streets, alleys and sidewalk pavement shall be kept in good repair.
Such repair work, whether done by the village or by the abutting owner, shall
be under the supervision of the public works director. No such work shall be
performed by an abutting owner except in compliance with section
3-8-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-14: DEFECTS:
It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee becoming cognizant of
any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the public works director as soon as possible. (Ord. 2011-
18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-15: OBSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk, parkway or other public way, except
as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the public works director.
(Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-16: BARRICADES:
Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or other
public place, or making an excavation in any such place, shall maintain
suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the
work. Such barricade shall be protected by lights between sunset and sunrise.
Any defects in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent any such
injury, and any person properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any
such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open
by proper barricades and lights at all times. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-17: DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE; WRITING ON PAVEMENT; PUBLIC POSTINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or other public
place as space for the display or sale of goods or merchandise; to write or
mark, using any permanent material, any signs or advertisements on any such
pavement; and to post any signage of any kind advertising the commercial sale
of goods or services on any public street, sidewalk, utility pole, street
signs, or other structure within the public right of way unless such signage is
otherwise in compliance with title VI, chapter 13 of this code. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, this section shall not be interpreted or enforced to prohibit
the noncommercial activities of children or not for profit organizations, such
as Lions Candy Day, Kiwanis Peanut Day, Knights Of Columbus Tootsie Roll Day,
or a child's or children's lemonade stand or hopscotch game. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-
1-2011)
3-8-18: ENCROACHMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, install, place or maintain any
building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
(Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-19: INJURING SURFACES:
   (A)   No vehicle of any kind shall be operated across, over or along any
public way, sidewalk, parkway, or other public property other than designated
streets, alleys and thoroughfares in the village.
   (B)   No tractor, traction engine, motor truck or other similar vehicle
shall be operated across, over or along any street in the village, if any such
vehicle has on the periphery of any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange,
cleat, ridge, lug or any projection of metal or wood which projects beyond the
tread of traffic surface of the tire; except that, this prohibition shall not
apply to tractors, or traction engines equipped with what is known as crawler
type tractors, when the same does not contain any projections of any kind
likely to injure the surface of the road, nor to tractors, traction engines and
similar vehicles which have upon their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other
cleats arranged in such a manner as to be continuously in contact with the road
surface. Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the operation of
tractors, traction engines or motor trucks across any street in order to reach
adjacent lands if the street is protected by putting down solid planks or other
suitable devices to prevent such vehicle from injuring the surface of the
street. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-20: DEPOSITS ON STREETS, ALLEYS, PARKWAYS OR OTHER MUNICIPAL PROPERTY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to ignite any fire or to deposit any material
which may be harmful to the pavement or surface thereof, or any waste material,
construction debris or any glass or any articles which may do injury to any
person, animal or property on any street, alley, parkway or other municipal
property.
   (B)   With the permission of the director of public works or building
commissioner, materials may be deposited on streets or alleys preparatory to
delivery or use, provided such deposit does not reduce the usable width of the
roadway at the point to less than eighteen feet (18'). Such material or
equipment, other than material or equipment to be used in actual building
construction, shall not be permitted to remain on such street or alley for more
than three (3) hours.
   (C)   Any such material or equipment shall be guarded by lights if the same
remains upon any street or alley between sunset and sunrise.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to store, deposit, or dump any material which may
be harmful to the green alley pavers, design, or surface including but not
limited to construction material, waste material, construction debris or any
articles which may injure the green alley and impair the functioning of the
green alley for which it has been designed. With the written permission of the
Director of Public Works or Building Commissioner, materials may be deposited
in green alleys, provided such deposit neither remains for more than three (3)
hours nor injures nor impairs that functionality of the green alley. Any
property owner found to have violated any provision of this section directly or
indirectly through any agent shall be subject to a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each violation in addition to other penalties or relief which may be
provided for under local code. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011; amd. Ord. 2024-18, 8-
19-2024)
3-8-21: DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material of any kind
or any glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width of the walk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'). No such article shall remain on
such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-22: OBSTRUCTING DRAINS/IMPROPER DISPOSAL:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley; and
further shall be unlawful to dispose or introduce any hazardous waste onto or
into any public street, alley, drain, sewer or other sanitary system. (Ord.
2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-23: POLES AND WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires on or over any
public street, alley or other public way without having first secured
permission from the board. Public utility guide wires are permitted as
authorized by the board. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-24: GAS PUMPS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any
public street, alley or sidewalk, without having first obtained a permit
therefor from the board. No such permit shall be issued until the applicant
furnishes a bond or indemnity policy with corporate surety to indemnify the
village, in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) against loss
or liability, occasioned by such tank or pump. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-25: PLAYING GAMES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley or
sidewalk where such games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with traffic or
pedestrians.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such violation. (Ord. 2011-18,
9-1-2011)
3-8-26: OPENINGS, STAIRWAYS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway
in any public street or sidewalk or alley without a permit from the board. All
such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong cover
or a railing, to the approval of the public works director.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each such violation. (Ord. 2011-
18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-27: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any private fence
composed in whole or in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material
designed to cause injury to persons, or any wire charged with electric current
anywhere within three feet (3') of any public street, sidewalk, park or other
public way or place. It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any private
fence composed in whole or in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material
designed to cause injury to persons, or any wire charged with electric current
anywhere within a residential district.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined a
minimum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) and up to seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day said violation is permitted to exist. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-
1-2011)
3-8-28: SNOW REMOVAL:
   (A)   Each owner or occupant of any premises shall keep the sidewalks
abutting the premises free from snow and other obstructions. In the event that
an owner or occupant of any premises is unable to maintain abutting sidewalks
in such condition, the owner or occupant shall advise the public works
department in writing of the inability to perform such maintenance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in any manner, to deposit snow on
any street, alley or other public thoroughfare within the village.
   (C)   If any plowing of private driveways or parking lots is undertaken, any
snow plowed from these areas shall be piled on the private property of the
owner of these areas, and shall not be piled on any public street, alley,
parkway or other public thoroughfare.
   (D)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a minimum
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
for each violation. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-29: REIMBURSEMENT OF VILLAGE EXPENDITURES BY DEVELOPERS/OWNERS:
   (A)   Reimbursement To Village: All developers and builders who construct
residential units, both single-family and multi-family, on any streets which
the village shall construct, pave or develop in any way, including pavement,
curbs, gutters, sewer lines, water lines and sidewalks, shall reimburse the
village for all expenditures incurred or to be incurred by the village before
any building permit shall issue to such developers or builders.
   (B)   Interest Added To Construction Costs: Interest on all village
expenditures shall be added to the construction costs, under the following
terms:
The rate of interest shall be the yearly average as determined by the weekly
prime rate.
Interest shall not be compounded annually.
Interest shall not accrue beyond five (5) years.
   (C)   Cash Contributions In Lieu Of Public Improvements: All developers or
owners of land who request a variance from the provisions of this code which
require certain public improvements shall, if such variances are allowed, be
required to pay a cash contribution to the village in lieu of such
improvements. This amount shall be determined by the village engineer for all
variances granted, including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, streetscaping and parkway improvements.
   (D)   Cost Of Restoration Of Damaged Improvement: All owners or builders who
damage any improved portion of the public right of way while constructing or
maintaining their private property or services thereto shall reimburse the
village for all expenditures made by the village in restoring the damaged
improvement. No occupancy permit or public service shall be authorized unless
and until such reimbursement is first made to the village. In the event such
payment is not made in full, subsection (C) of this section shall apply. Such
damages shall include, without limitation, any impairment or harm to the water
or sewer system, street, alley, gutter, sidewalk, or any other public right of
way improvement. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
3-8-30: FINES AND PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise specifically provided for herein, any person, firm or other
business entity violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined,
upon conviction, not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues to
exist. (Ord. 2011-18, 9-1-2011)
CHAPTER 9
SMALL CELL ANTENNAS OR TOWERS IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
SECTION:
3-9-1: Purpose
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: Standards And Regulations
3-9-4: Permit Required; Application
3-9-5: Insurance Requirement
3-9-6: Application And Annual Fees
3-9-7: Conflict Of Laws
3-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish certain rules and regulations as
well as fees related to the licensing, regulating and inspecting of small cell
antennas or towers equipment and the installation and maintenance of same in
order to adequately reimburse the Village for the financial burden of
licensing, regulating and inspecting of such equipment and to authorize Village
officials to take all action necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-11, 5-3-2018)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms will have the following
meanings:
ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE: An existing pole or other structure within the
public right-of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a utility
pole or a Village-owned infrastructure.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio signals used in the provision of any type of wireless communications
services.
APPLICANT: Any person or entity submitting an application to install personal
wireless telecommunication facilities or structures to support the facilities
within a public right-of- way.
BUILDING COMMISSIONER: Administrator of the Building Division of the Department
of Community Development of the Village of River Grove.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): A network or facility to which all the
following apply: a) it distributes radio frequency signals to provide wireless
service; b) it meets the size limitations of a small cell facility; and c) it
consists of all the following: 1) remote antenna nodes deployed throughout a
desired coverage area; 2) a high-capacity signal transport medium connected to
a central hub site; and 3) equipment located at the hub site to process or
control the radio frequency signals through the antennas.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery, bushes
or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from public view.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA: An antenna that is part of a
personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Equipment, exclusive of an
antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An antenna, equipment, and
related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data video streams, images, or other information
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, paging, and Wi-Fi antenna service.
REPLACE OR REPLACEMENT: To substitute a new facility, in its entirety, for an
existing facility.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Land dedicated or utilized for a street, trail, sidewalk,
utility, railroad or other similar purpose.
SMALL CELL FACILITIES: A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity in a limited defined
area. Generally single- service provider installation.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an alternative
antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure. Except as otherwise
provided for herein, the requirements for a tower and associated antenna
facilities shall be those required in this chapter.
UTILITY POLE: An upright pole designed and used to support electric cables,
telephone cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which are
used to provide lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function.
VARIANCE/VARIATION: A grant of relief by the Building Commissioner or designee
of the Building Commissioner.
VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure in public right-of- way within the
boundaries of the Village, including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic
signals, towers, structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained by the
Village.
WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices.
WIRELESS SERVICE: Any telecommunications service using licensed or unlicensed
wireless spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided using
Distributed Antenna Systems or small cell facilities. (Ord. 2018-11, 5-3-2018)
3-9-3: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
Personal wireless telecommunication facilities will be permitted to be placed
in right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village as attachments to
existing utility poles, alternative antenna structures, or Village-owned
infrastructure subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Number Limitation And Co-Location: The Building Commissioner or
designee of the Building Commissioner may regulate the number of personal
wireless telecommunications facilities allowed on each utility pole or unit of
Village-owned infrastructure. No more than two (2) personal wireless
telecommunications facilities will be permitted on utility poles or alternative
antenna structure of ninety feet (90') or less. No more than three (3) personal
wireless telecommunications facilities will be permitted on utility poles or
alternative antenna structures in excess of ninety feet (90') and less than one
hundred twenty feet (120'). This chapter does not preclude or prohibit co-
location of personal wireless telecommunication facilities on towers or
monopoles that meet the requirements as set forth elsewhere in this chapter or
as required by Federal law. In all cases, the applicant shall provide the
longitude and latitude for the location(s) for which the applicant is applying
to place the personal wireless telecommunications facilities described in this
chapter.
   (B)   Separation And Clearance Requirements: Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities may be attached to a utility pole, alternative
antenna structure, monopole, or Village-owned infrastructure only where such
pole, structure or infrastructure is located no closer than a distance equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the height of such facility to any residential
building or twenty five feet (25') from any residential building, excluding
garages, whichever is greater, and no closer than three hundred feet (300')
from any other personal wireless telecommunication facility. These requirements
shall not apply to Village-owned equipment or facilities. A separation or
lesser clearance may be allowed by the Building Commissioner or designee of the
Building Commissioner as an administrative variance to this chapter when the
applicant establishes that the lesser separation or clearance is necessary to
close a significant coverage or capacity gap in the applicant's services or to
otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the proposed antenna or
facility is the least intrusive means to do so within the right-of-way.
   (C)   Village-Owned Infrastructure: Personal wireless telecommunication
facilities can only be mounted to Village-owned infrastructure including, but
not limited to, streetlights, traffic signal, towers or buildings, if
authorized by a license or other agreement between the owner or applicant and
the Village.
   (D)   New Towers: No new monopole or other tower to support personal
wireless telecommunication facilities in excess of sixty feet (60') is
permitted to be installed on right-of-way within the jurisdiction of the
Village unless the Corporate Authorities find, based on clear and convincing
evidence provided by the applicant, that locating the personal wireless
telecommunications facilities on the right-of-way is necessary to close a
significant coverage or capacity gap in the applicant's services or to
otherwise provide adequate services to customers, and the proposed new monopole
or other tower within the right-of-way is the least intrusive means to do so.
   (E)   Attachment Limitations: No personal wireless telecommunication antenna
or facility within the right-of-way will be attached to a utility pole,
alternative antenna structure, tower, or Village-owned infrastructure unless
all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      1.   Surface Area Of Antenna: The personal wireless telecommunication
antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas or dish-shaped antennas,
cannot have a surface area of more than seven (7) cubic feet in volume.
      2.   Size Of Above-Ground Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facility:
The total combined volume of all above-ground equipment and appurtenances
comprising a personal wireless telecommunication facility, exclusive of the
antenna itself, cannot exceed thirty two (32) cubic feet.
      3.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of a
personal wireless telecommunication facility must, whenever possible, locate
the base of the equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower than eight
feet (8') above grade.
      4.   Personal Wireless Telecommunication Services Equipment Mounted At
Grade: In the event that the operator of a personal wireless telecommunication
facility proposes to install a facility where equipment or appurtenances are to
be installed at grade, screening must be installed to minimize the visibility
of the facility. Screening must be installed at least three feet (3') from the
equipment installed at-grade and eight feet (8') from a roadway.
      5.   Height: The top of the highest point of the antenna cannot extend
more than seven feet (7') above the highest point of the utility pole,
alternative antenna support structure, tower or Village-owned infrastructure.
If necessary, the replacement or new utility pole, alternative support
structure or Village-owned infrastructure located within the public right-of-
way may be no more than ten feet to seventy feet (10' - 70') higher than
existing poles adjacent to the replacement or new pole or structure, or no more
than ninety feet (90') in height overall, whichever is less, and shall be of a
similar look and structure of other poles within a five hundred foot (500')
area.
      6.   Color: A personal wireless telecommunication facility, including all
related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color that blends with the
surroundings of the pole, structure tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted and use non- reflective materials which blend with the materials and
colors of the surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must be covered with
an appropriate cover.
      7.   Antenna Panel Covering: A personal wireless telecommunication
antenna may include a radome, cap or other antenna panel covering or shield, to
the extent such covering would not result in a larger or more noticeable
facility and, if proposed, such covering must be of a color that blends with
the color of the pole, structure, tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted.
      8.   Wiring And Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the
remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the Electrical
Code currently in effect in the Village. No wiring and cabling serving the
facility will be allowed to interfere with any wiring or cabling installed by a
cable television or video service operator, electric utility or telephone
utility.
      9.   Grounding: The personal wireless telecommunication facility must be
grounded in accordance with the requirements of the Electrical Code currently
in effect in the Village.
      10.   Guy Wires: No guy or other support wires will be used in connection
with a personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is to
be attached to an existing utility pole, alternative antenna support structure,
tower or Village-owned infrastructure that incorporated guy wires prior to the
date that an applicant has applied for a permit.
      11.   Pole Extensions: Extensions to utility poles, alternative support
structures, towers and Village-owned infrastructure utilized for the purpose of
connecting a personal wireless telecommunications antenna and its related
personal wireless telecommunications equipment must have a degree of strength
capable of supporting the antenna and any related appurtenances and cabling and
capable of withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance with the
applicable structural integrity standards, as set forth in the subsection
entitled Structural Integrity. An extension must be securely bound to the
utility pole, alternative antenna structure, tower or Village-owned
infrastructure in accordance with applicable engineering standards for the
design and attachment of such extensions.
      12.   Structural Integrity: The personal wireless telecommunication
facility, including the antenna, pole extension and all related equipment must
be designed to withstand a wind force and ice loads in accordance with
applicable standards established in chapter 25 of the National Electric Safety
Code for utility poles, rule 250-B and 250-C standards governing wind, ice, and
loading forces on utility poles, in the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) in TIA/EIA section 222-G established by the Telecommunications Industry
Association (TIA) and the Electronics Industry Association (EIA) for steel
wireless support structures and the applicable industry standard for other
existing structures. For any facility attached to Village-owned infrastructure
or, in the discretion of the Village, for a utility pole, tower, or alternative
antenna structure, the operator of the facility must provide the Village with a
structural evaluation of each specific location containing a recommendation
that the proposed installation passes the standards described above. The
evaluation must be prepared by a professional structural engineer licensed in
the State of Illinois.
   (F)   Signage: Other than signs required by Federal law or regulations or
identification and location markings, installation of signs on a personal
wireless telecommunication facility is prohibited.
   (G)   Screening: If screening is required under subsection (E)4 of this
section, it must be natural landscaping material or a fence subject to the
approval of the Village and must comply with all other regulations of the
Village. Appropriate landscaping must be located and maintained and must
provide the maximum achievable screening, as determined by the Village, from
view of adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than nine feet (9') in
height. Landscape screening when permitted in the right-of-way must be provided
with a clearance of three feet (3') in all directions from the facility. The
color of housing for ground-mounted equipment must blend with the surroundings.
For a covered structure, the maximum reasonably achievable screening must be
provided between such facility and the view from adjoining properties and
public or private streets. In lieu of the operator installing the screening,
the Village, at its sole discretion, may accept a fee from the operator of the
facility for the acquisition, installation, or maintenance of landscaping
material by the Village.
   (H)   Permission To Use Utility Pole Or Alternative Antenna Structure: The
operator of a personal wireless telecommunication facility must submit to the
Village written copies of the approval from the owner of a utility pole,
monopole, or an alternative antenna structure, to mount the personal wireless
telecommunication facility on that specific pole, tower, or structure, prior to
issuance of the Village permit.
   (I)   Licenses And Permits: The operator of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility must verify to the Village that it has received all
concurrent licenses and permits required by other agencies and governments with
jurisdiction over the design, construction, location and operation of said
facility have been obtained and will be maintained within the corporate limits
of the Village.
   (J)   Variance Requirements: Each location of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility within a right-of-way must meet all of the
requirements of this chapter, unless a variance has been obtained. An applicant
requesting a variance from one or more of the provisions of this chapter must
do so in writing to the Building Commissioner as a part of the permit
application. The request shall identify each provision of this chapter from
which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance should be granted.
      1.   The Building Commissioner, or designee of the Building Commissioner,
shall decide, on an individual basis, whether a variance is authorized for each
provision of this chapter identified in the variance request. The Building
Commissioner, or designee of the Building Commissioner, may authorize a
variance only if the applicant requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
         (a) One or more conditions not under the control of the applicant
(such as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
         (b) All other designs, methods, materials, locations, or facilities
that would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
      2.   As a condition for authorizing a variance, the Building
Commissioner, or designee of the Building Commissioner, may require the
applicant requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter, but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
      3.   Any applicant aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including the denial of a variance, made by the Building
Commissioner, or designee of the Building Commissioner under the provisions of
this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Village President, or such
other designee as may be designated by the Village President. The application
for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk within thirty
(30) calendar days after the date of such order, requirement, decision, or
determination. The Village President shall commence consideration of the appeal
at a scheduled public meeting occurring at least ten (10) calendar days after
the filing of the appeal. The Village President shall timely decide the appeal.
   (K)   Abandonment And Removal: Any personal wireless telecommunication
facility located within the corporate limits of the Village that is not
operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, shall be considered
abandoned and the owner of the facility must remove same within ninety (90)
days of receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return-receipt-
requested, by the Village to such owner at the last known address of such
owner. In the case of personal wireless telecommunication facilities attached
to Village owned infrastructure, if such facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility through the terms of the applicable license agreement or through
whatever actions are provided by law for removal and cost recovery.
   (L)   Reimbursements For Costs: The applicant or telecommunications retailer
shall be solely responsible for any and all costs incurred by the Village
associated with the installation, repair, replacement, or removal of the
applicant or telecommunications provider's equipment. The costs shall include
but are not limited to impact fees for street closures; costs related to
traffic enforcement at the site where the installation, repair, replacement, or
removal has occurred; any costs related to returning the right-of-way to its
original state prior to the installation, repair, replacement, or removal of
the applicant or telecommunications provider's equipment. (Ord. 2018-11, 5-3-
2018)
3-9-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   (A)   Permit Required: Permits, applications, and fees related to personal
wireless facilities and applications for the same in the right-of-way shall be
governed by this chapter; however, where this chapter is silent related to
certain building permit fees or licensing fees, any other applicable provisions
of this Code shall control. No person shall construct any facility on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across or within any Village right-of- way which: 1)
changes the location of the facility; 2) adds a new facility; 3) disrupts the
right-of-way; or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied
by the facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-
way, without first filing an application and obtaining a permit from the
Village, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be
required for the installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers' premises where there will be no disruption of a right-of-way. All
applications shall go through site review and approval with the Building
Commissioner, or the designee of the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the Village may require.
   (C)   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be
made by the applicant or its duly authorized representative and shall contain,
at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The applicant's name, address and telephone and facsimile numbers
and a statement of the applicant's interest in the work;
      2.   The names, addresses, telephone and facsimile numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      3.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed. The scope of work shall
also indicate the type of equipment or facilities being installed and whether
the equipment or facilities are new, a swap-out or exchange of facilities or
equipment, or an upgrade to existing facilities and equipment.
      4.   Evidence that the applicant has placed on file with the Village:
         (a) A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed, which shall be consistent with
IDOT's Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or
damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient
pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and
         (b) An emergency contingency plan, which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies including, without limitation, construction and hazardous
materials emergencies and the intended response by the applicant. The intended
response shall include notification to the Village and shall promote protection
of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC regulations
for emergency contingency plans constitute compliance with this chapter, unless
the Village finds that additional information or assurances are needed.
      5.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable laws, codes, rules and regulations;
      6.   Evidence of insurance as herein required;
      7.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter;
      8.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village or Building Commissioner; and
      9.   Evidence that any "Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity"
or other regulatory authorization that the applicant is required by law to
obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has been issued by the ICC
or another entity with jurisdictional authority.
   (D)   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the applicant in writing to the Village within thirty (30)
calendar days after the change necessitating the amendment.
   (E)   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by the applicable
franchise, license or similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant
to this chapter shall be accompanied by a fee as herein provided. No
application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the Municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Law 1 . (Ord. 2018-11, 5-3-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 645/15, et seq.
3-9-5: INSURANCE REQUIREMENT:
   (A)   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by a
franchise, license or similar agreement, each applicant or utility occupying a
right-of-way or constructing any facility in a right-of-way shall secure and
maintain the following liability insurance policies insuring the applicant as a
named insured and naming the Village and its elected and appointed officers,
officials, agents and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed
in subsections (A)1 and (A)2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard and products-completed
operations coverage with limits not less than:
         (a) Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death to
each person;
         (b) Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage resulting
from any one accident; and
         (c) Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
      5.   If the applicant is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies Required: The applicant shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the Village within ten (10) calendar days
following the receipt of the filing of its application.
   (D)   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
   "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
may the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) calendar days after
receipt by the Village, by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the Building Commissioner of such
intent to cancel or not to renew."
Within ten (10) calendar days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and
in no event later than ten (10) calendar days prior to said cancellation, the
applicant shall obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement
insurance policies meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-Insurance: An applicant may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required herein. Self-insurers are
not required, to the extent of such self- insurance, to comply with the
requirement of the naming of additional insureds under subsection (A) of this
section, or to comply with the requirements of subsections (B), (C) and (D) of
this section. An applicant that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection (A) of
this section, which evidence may include that the applicant is a "private self-
insurer" under the Workers' Compensation Act 1 .
   (F)   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On An Applicant's Liability:
The legal liability of an applicant to the Village and any person for any of
the matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder. The applicant's
insurance shall be primary, and any Village policies of insurance shall be
deemed noncontributory.
   (G)   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2018-11, 5-3-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 305/1, et seq.
3-9-6: APPLICATION AND ANNUAL FEES:
Permits for placement of personal wireless telecommunication facilities in
right-of-way within the Village are required. Any application must demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The procedures for the
application for, approval of, and revocation of such a permit must be in
compliance with Village permit application requirements, except as otherwise
provided for in this chapter. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license,
or similar agreement, or Federal, State or local law, all applications for
permits pursuant to this chapter must be accompanied by a fee in the amount
herein imposed. The application fee will reimburse the Village for its internal
administrative costs related to processing an application made under this
chapter with respect to the work being performed. In addition, the applicant
shall reimburse the Village for any fees charged to the Village for
professional services (engineering fees, legal fees, site review fees, etc.)
related to the processing of the application. No application fee is required to
be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the Municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Law 1 . However, such applicant shall remain responsible for
reimbursing the Village for the cost of its professional services employed in
reviewing the application.
   (A)   Application Fees: For the installation of a Distributed Antenna System
or small cell facility, a telecommunications retailer shall pay the following
application fees:
      1.   Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for a new facility.
      2.   Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for the attachment to and, if
applicable, replacement of a Village-owned facility.
      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the attachment to a utility-
owned facility.
   (B)   Annual License Fees: A telecommunications retailer that obtained a
permit and installed a Distributed Antenna System or a small cell facility
within the Village's jurisdiction shall pay the following annual license fees:
      1.   Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for a new facility.
      2.   Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per attachment to and, if
applicable, replacement of a Village-owned facility.
      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per attachment to a utility- owned
facility.
   (C)   Invoice: The Village shall invoice the telecommunications retailer for
such annual fee(s) due on or about January 1 of each year, and the
telecommunications retailer shall pay such invoice within thirty (30) calendar
days after its receipt thereof.
   (D)   Penalty For Violations:
      1.   Any and all persons or parties who violate the terms and provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a fine up to seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per day. Each day shall be considered a new violation.
      2.   Any fine levied shall be appealable pursuant to the Illinois
Administrative Review Act, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101, et seq.
(Ord. 2018-11, 5-3-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 645/15, et seq.
3-9-7: CONFLICT OF LAWS:
Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter regarding the
siting and installation of personal wireless telecommunication facilities are
more restrictive than comparable conditions imposed elsewhere in any other
local law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation, the regulations herein
provided shall govern however, where this chapter conflicts with Federal laws
or State laws pre-empting the Village's power, the Federal or State law will
govern. (Ord. 2018-11, 5-3-2018)
TITLE IV
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SEWER AND DRAIN BUILDERS
SECTION:
4-1-1: License
4-1-2: Application and Bond
4-1-3: Change of Firm or Location
4-1-4: Co-Partners
4-1-5: Forfeiture
4-1-6: Liability of Sewer Builders
4-1-7: Permits
4-1-8: Rules and Regulations
4-1-9: Applications for Permits
4-1-10: Drain Permits
4-1-11: Notice
4-1-12: Extensions
4-1-13: No work to be Done Without Permit
4-1-14: None but Licensed Drain Layers or Sewer Builders to do Work
4-1-15: Drain Layer's Certificate
4-1-16: Direct Sewer Connection
4-1-17: Private Manholes
4-1-18: Privy Vaults
4-1-19: Sewer Pipe Trap not to be at Foot of Ventilating Shaft
4-1-20: Connections Where no Junction Piece
4-1-21: Deviation from Standard Grade
4-1-22: Exhaust or Blow-off Pipes
4-1-23: Drains and Private Sewers in Street
4-1-24: Errors and Mistakes of Employees
4-1-25: Extra Junctions; Charge for Setting
4-1-26: Specifications
4-1-27: Protecting Gas and Water Mains During Excavation
4-1-28: No Private Drain or Sewer to be Disturbed
4-1-29: Grade
4-1-30: Ends of Drain to be Securely Closed
4-1-31: Laying Pipes
4-1-32: Back Filling
4-1-33: Not to Use Water From Fire Hydrants; Drain Layers
4-1-34: Openings in Sidewalks and Roadways; to be Protected
4-1-35: Mortar
4-1-36: Pipes
4-1-37: House Drains
4-1-38: Drains to Conform to Specifications
4-1-39: Drains; How Laid
4-1-40: Work to Progress Continuously; Sufficient Men
4-1-41: Filling Trenches
4-1-42: Water From Fire Hydrants; Contractors
4-1-43: Laying Pipe
4-1-44: Streets Where Railways Operated
4-1-45: Liability of Contractor
4-1-46: No Payment Until Inspector Certifies Work, Properly Executed
4-1-47: Discharge from Steam Boilers
4-1-48: Sewers and Drains; When Must Have Water Connection
4-1-49: Catch Basin; Fee
4-1-50: Garbage
4-1-51: Cleaning Gutters
4-1-52: Policemen to Report Violations
4-1-53: No Connection to be Made Without Permit
4-1-54: Uncovering Catch-basins
4-1-55: Altering Drains, Catch-basins, etc.
4-1-56: Protecting Public Sewers
4-1-57: Users of Private Sewers; Direction Department of Public Works
4-1-58: Destroying or Injuring Sewers, Drains, etc.
4-1-59: Location; Construction of Private Sewers or Drains
4-1-60: Fees for Permits
4-1-61: Suspending License
4-1-1: LICENSE:
Any person desiring to do business in connection with the sewers and drains in
the Village as a sewer builder or drain layer, shall first obtain a license as
such sewer builder or drain layer from the President, and shall pay a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00) therefor, which fee shall be paid to the Clerk, who shall
account for the same as all other receipts which come into his hands belonging
to the sewer fund of the Village, and no person shall receive such license who
shall not have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years, and shall not furnish
satisfactory evidence of his responsibility and skill to carry on his trade in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Village to the satisfaction of
the Engineer or the Board of Trustees.
4-1-2: APPLICATION AND BOND:
Every person desiring such license shall file with the Clerk, a petition in
writing addressed to the President, giving the name and place of business,
asking to become a licensed sewer builder and drain layer, and said petition
shall be accompanied by a bond signed by two or more sureties, to be approved
by the Board of Trustees, in the sum of three thousand dollars, unless a
different sum be specially ordered by the Board of Trustees, conditioned that
he or they, will indemnify and save harmless the Village of River Grove from
all accidents and damage caused by any negligence in either the execution or
protection of his work, either by himself or by any one acting under his
direction, or for any unfaithful or inadequate work done under and by virtue of
his license; and that said license as such, will also conform to all the
conditions and requirements of the Village government, and will restore the
street, alley, sidewalk and pavement disturbed by him, so as to leave the same
in as good condition as he found them, or in default thereof will submit to
such penalties as are or may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees for the
government of licensed sewer builders and drain layers, and said Engineer
having investigated as to the responsibility and skill of said applicant to
carry on his trade as provided in preceding Sections, shall deliver said
petition to the President with his recommendations endorsed thereon.
4-1-3: CHANGE OF FIRM OR LOCATION:
Any change of the firm name or location of business must be promptly reported
to the Engineer and the license shall be kept in a conspicuous place at their
place of business.
4-1-4: CO-PARTNERS:
When two or more persons are co-partners, licenses shall be issued in the name
of the firm or co-partnership and no license shall be transferable.
4-1-5: FORFEITURE:
Any sewer builder who shall be guilty of a violation of any of the provisions
of this Chapter shall forfeit his license and shall be subject to a fine, upon
conviction, of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
4-1-6: LIABILITY OF SEWER BUILDERS:
All licensed sewer builders shall be held responsible for all acts of their
agents or employes done by virtue of his or their said license.
4-1-7: PERMITS:
No permit shall be granted under any section or provision of this Chapter to
any person not licensed as a sewer builder or drain layer as herein provided.
4-1-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for laying house drains and constructing
private sewers; and specifications defining the method of doing work, and the
character and quality of the materials to be used therein are hereby adopted
and established.
4-1-9: APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS:
Applications for permits to connect with the general sewerage system of the
Village must be made on the regulation blank by the owner or owners of the
property it is designated to drain, or by their duly authorized agents; and it
must be accompanied by a clear and exact description of the premises and of the
character and location of the drains it is proposed to put in place, together
with the number and location of all water closets, sinks, bath tubs, receiving
basins and other sanitary fixtures it is designed to connect with same, which
description must be left and placed on file, in the office of this department
for future reference.
4-1-10: DRAIN PERMITS:
No drain permit will be issued until the owner or licensed drain layer has
obtained a permit to open a trench where said connection with the drain or main
sewer is to be made in an improved street.
4-1-11: NOTICE:
At least twenty-four (24) hours previous notice, exclusive of Sundays and legal
holidays, must be given at the office of the department before any street or
highway can be opened for the purpose of constructing a house drain or private
sewer. But, should the drain layer be prevented by bad weather or any other
good and sufficient cause from commencing work at the time so notified and
fixed, then such facts must be reported to this department at once, in order
that another day may be designated for doing this work.
4-1-12: EXTENSIONS:
No house drain can be extended from work already in place, and which has been
duly inspected and accepted, nor can any additions or new connections of any
kind or description be made to or with such finished work, without twenty four
(24) hours previous notice having been given to this department and permission
obtained to make the proposed additions or extensions.
4-1-13: NO WORK TO BE DONE WITHOUT PERMIT:
No house drain or private sewer will be allowed to be put in place, nor any of
the work in connection therewith commenced or prosecuted unless the "permit"
granted by this department to construct the drain or sewer is in the possession
of the licensed drain layer at the site of the proposed work, or of one of his
employes engaged thereon.
4-1-14: NONE BUT LICENSED DRAIN LAYERS OF SEWER BUILDERS TO DO WORK:
No sewer builder or drain layer shall allow his name to be used by any other
person or party, either for the purpose of obtaining permits or doing any work
under his license. And no licensed drain layer or sewer builder shall employ
any person to lay pipe or do any brick work in connection therewith except said
person shall have a drain layer's certificate to do said work, signed by the
Engineer.
4-1-15: DRAIN LAYERS CERTIFICATE:
The Engineer is hereby authorized to issue "Drain layer's certificates" to such
persons as shall furnish him satisfactory evidence of their responsibility and
skill to carry on the work of a pipe layer. Which certificate shall be issued
free of expense to the applicant, and shall be revocable at the discretion of
the Engineer for any violation of the provisions of this Code relating to
sewers and drains or for any violation of the rules and regulations of the
department of public works relating to that subject.
4-1-16: DIRECT SEWER CONNECTION:
Each and every house must make direct connection with the main sewer in the
street. Under no circumstances will two (2) or more houses be allowed to make
such connection through one pipe, nor to carry their drainage in pipes laid
beneath or through adjoining property.
4-1-17: PRIVATE MANHOLES:
The construction of private receiving basins, or manholes outside the lot
lines, or inside of the area of building walls, will not be permitted, except
special permission is given in writing by the Engineer.
4-1-18: PRIVY VAULTS:
Privy vaults can only be connected with the sewers through intervening
receiving basins, and the outlet pipes from all such vaults must not be less
than two feet (2') above their bottoms so as to retain all solid matter, and
effectually prevent anything but the liquid contents of the vault from passing
into the drainage pipes and receiving basins. All discharge pipes leading from
kitchen sinks, laundry and stationary wash stands, or any other receptacles
likely to contain grease in any form, shall make direct connection with and
discharge their contents into receiving basins; and all bath tubs, water
closets, hand basins, etc., shall connect direct with the main drain.
4-1-19: SEWER PIPE TRAP NOT TO BE AT FOOT OF VENTILATING SHAFT:
No sewer pipe trap will be permitted to be placed at the foot of a ventilating
shaft or soil pipe.
4-1-20: CONNECTIONS WHERE NO JUNCTION PIECE:
Whenever it may be found necessary to make a connection between a house drain
and the main sewer in the street where no junction piece was originally placed
in the latter in front of the lot, the junction piece will be furnished by the
Village, and the same put in place by the Department of Public Works. Under no
circumstances will drain layers or other outside parties be allowed to break
into the sewers for the purpose of setting junctions, or making any kind of
connections whatsoever.
4-1-21: DEVIATION FROM STANDARD GRADE:
Should water, gas or other pipes or drains be encountered in the direct line of
a house drain during its construction, the question of carrying such drain
under, over or around such or similar obstructions, or of doing anything
involving a deviation from the proper line or standard grade, can only be
decided by the Engineer.
4-1-22: EXHAUST OR BLOW-OFF PIPES:
No exhaust from steam engines shall be connected with the public sewer or
private drains, and no blow-off from steam boilers can be so connected without
special permission from the Engineer.
4-1-23: DRAINS AND PRIVATE SEWERS IN STREET:
All house drains and private sewers placed in position within the Village, for
the purpose of affording drainage facilities to buildings abutting on streets
or highways wherein no public sewers have been constructed, must, nevertheless,
be put in place strictly in accordance with these rules and regulations, and
the permission to do the work will be required to be given by the Board of
Trustees. When the general sewerage system of the Village has reached the
immediate neighborhood, and the proper time arrives for effecting the required
connection therewith, then the usual permit must be taken out and the usual
notice given, as particularly laid down in Section
4-1-9.
4-1-24: ERRORS AND MISTAKES OF EMPLOYES:
Wilful or ignorant mistakes of employes will not be regarded as sufficient
reasons for exonerating drain layers from a suspension of their licenses; on
the contrary, they will be held to a strict accountability for all errors or
mistakes of their employes while in the legitimate pursuit of their occupation
as drain layers.
4-1-25: EXTRA JUNCTIONS; CHARGE FOR SETTING:
The charge for extra junctions and setting same are as follows:
 
Six inch (6") junctions       two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50)
Nine inch (9") junctions      five dollars ($5.00)
Twelve inch (12") junctions   seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50)
Fifteen inch (15") junctions  ten dollars ($10.00)
Eighteen inch (18") junctions fifteen dollars ($15.00)
 
The above charges are exclusive of the established fee of five dollars ($5.00)
for each and every house connected with the sewerage system.
4-1-26: SPECIFICATIONS:
All house drains and private sewers shall be constructed in open trenches,
carefully excavated in the proper direction, and to such width and depth as may
be necessary to secure the correct alignment, and faithful execution of the
work, which latter must be vigorously prosecuted, so as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the traveling public. If the sides of the trenches
will not maintain their vertical position they shall be sheeted, shored and
strongly braced. Prior to commencing the excavation, all the materials
composing the sidewalks, roadway, paving and other similar improvements, shall
be carefully removed, and piled in some convenient place, and in such position
there as will insure their safety, and where they will be out of the way of
street traffic, and of the material taken from the trenches, which latter must
likewise be so disposed of as not to seriously interfere with the legitimate
use of sidewalks and roadways.
4-1-27: PROTECTING GAS AND WATER MAINS DURING EXCAVATION:
Should gas or water mains or other pipes or drains be encountered during the
progress of the excavation, the same shall be carefully and thoroughly
protected against injury or settlement by the contractor at his own expense.
4-1-28: NO PRIVATE DRAIN OR SEWER TO BE DISTURBED:
Whenever it may be found necessary to pass through or in anywise disturb an
existing house drain or private sewer in actual use, such drainage pipe or
private sewer shall not be interfered with, nor cut through or connected in any
way, without the written consent of the Village Engineer having been previously
obtained thereto; nor shall any house drain be carried immediately above or
through a wooden drain, no matter whether the latter be in use or abandoned,
nor through unstable or perishable matter of any character unless all such work
be carefully placed upon a foundation or puddled earth concrete, or of brick or
stone masonry, of such dimension and method of construction as may be directed
by the Commissioner of Public Works.
4-1-29: GRADE:
The grade of drain pipe liable to receive solid substances shall be as follows:
Six inches (6") in diameter, one-quarter inch (1/4") per lineal foot.
Nine inches (9") and over in diameter, one-eighth inch (1/8") per lineal foot.
Drain tiling for surface drainage, to receive water only, one-eighth inch (1/
8") per lineal foot.
No deviation from these grades will be permitted in the streets, but within the
lot lines, permission will be granted to increase the grade upon written
application of the property owner, approved by the Commissioner of Public
Works.
4-1-30: ENDS OF DRAINS TO BE SECURELY CLOSED:
The ends of all house drains not to be at once connected with the interior
drainage, or other sanitary fixtures, shall be securely closed with vitrified
discs or with brick masonry, so as to be rendered absolutely impervious to the
surrounding material in which the pipes are imbedded.
All connections between the main sewers and the slaughter houses, lard
rendering establishments, butcher shops, packing houses, hotels, restaurants,
manufacturing establishments, etc. shall be through intervening receiving
basins, built in brick masonry, and whose number, dimensions and form shall be
prescribed by the Engineer. Whenever a drain pipe is connected with the
temporary receiving basin for draining excavations made for the foundations of
buildings, or for any other purpose, the open ends of all such pipes shall be
covered with some form of screen, and the drain layer will be held strictly
responsible for all expense that may be incurred for removing all sand, gravel
or earth from out the main sewers which may have found their way therein by
reason of the negligence of himself or his employes.
4-1-31: LAYING PIPES:
All pipes shall be laid fair and true to line, and upon foundations of assured
stability, either natural or artificial, and the ends of each length of pipe
shall abut squarely and truly against the adjoining pieces, so as to present an
absolute continuity and uniformity in the interior of drain, particularly at
the bottom line. The joint rings shall be carefully placed in position,
concentrically around the pipes, the space between the latter and the rings
thoroughly flushed with mortar, and finally as the work progresses, and each
length of pipe is permanently fixed in place, the interior shall be thoroughly
cleansed and wiped out, and all projecting mortar or other substances carefully
removed, so that the internal area of the drain shall be left absolutely
unobstructed, smooth and clean throughout its entire length. Any change in the
alignment of the pipes in any direction to be made on true curves, with pipe,
only.
4-1-32: BACK FILLING:
After the foregoing work has been finished and properly inspected, the back-
filling shall commence without delay, and during its prosecution, and as fast
as deposited in the trench, it shall be thoroughly puddled and tamped to such
an extent as to render subsequent settlement of the surface practically
impossible. The drain layer will be held strictly responsible for any
disturbance or displacement to the roadway ballasting or paving, due to his
neglect to faithfully conform to the foregoing requirements.
4-1-33: NOT TO USE WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; DRAIN LAYERS:
Drain layers will not be allowed to use water from fire hydrants, except, a
special permit for the use of the same may be obtained from the Engineer.
4-1-34: OPENINGS IN SIDEWALKS AND ROADWAYS, TO BE PROTECTED:
All openings made in the sidewalks or roadways for the purpose of constructing
house drains or private sewers, shall be surrounded and efficiently protected
at all hours by ample and sufficient barriers, upon which red signal lights
shall be placed and maintained at night time, together with such additional
precautions as may be deemed necessary for the absolute protection of the
traveling public. The conditions of this clause are imperative, and drain
layers will be held responsible for all claims that may arise from damages to
persons or property following the neglect or violation of any of its
provisions.
4-1-35: MORTAR:
All mortar used in the construction of receiving basins, or other fixtures
appertaining to house drainage, shall be composed of one part pure hydraulic
cement powder, thoroughly incorporated with one part of clean, sharp lake shore
sand mixed with clean water, and fresh made for the work in hand; and it shall
be used immediately after being mixed, and not allowed to stand upon the mortar
boards until it has "set", and then brokendown, remixed or re-tempered so-
called. The cement shall be fresh made and of some satisfactory and reliable
brand; and of such quality and uniformity as will be demonstrated by a proper
test under the direction of the Department of Public Works of the Village of
River Grove; to be a superior quality and thoroughly adapted to the
construction of sewers and similar work, to be approved by the Engineer.
All pipe sewers or drains shall be laid with pure cement mortar, the cement
used to be approved by the Engineer.
4-1-36: PIPES:
All pipe used shall be straight, smooth and sound, thoroughly burned, vitrified
and salt glazed, free from lumps or other imperfections and for the size
hereinafter mentioned with no applicable variation from the specified
dimensions or the true cylindrical shape. All straight pipe shall be straight
in the direction of its natural axis, and its interior and exterior surface
shall be concentric. All pipes except as hereinafter mentioned shall be with
butt joints at square and at right angles with the axis, and each piece of pipe
shall be furnished with a "sleeve" or "ring" not less than four inches wide,
and whose internal diameter is at least one and one-half inches greater than
the external diameter of the pipe to be encircled and joined. The Engineer
shall decide when it will be necessary to use ring pipe or socket pipe. All
curves, slants or junctions shall conform to the foregoing requirements as
regards quality, form and workmanship, and in general their thickness shall be
equal to that of pipes of the same caliber into which they are to be worked or
joined. All said pipes shall be subject to inspection and approval or rejection
by the Engineer, or his duly authorized representatives and shall be equal in
quality to the best pipe heretofore used in the construction of sewers.
4-1-37: HOUSE DRAINS:
All house drains, connecting the main sewer with the receiving basin, and all
branches connecting with water closets, and sinks, shall be not less than six
inches (6") internal diameter connections with down-spouts or hand basins only,
four inch (4") pipe will be permitted when preferred; and any variation from
these dimensions can only be made upon written permission of the Village
Engineer defining the special sizes to be used, and specifically defining the
special reasons governing such authorization. The use of metallic pipe or
socket-joint pipe within the lot lines only, will be allowed upon written
application of the property owner, subject, however, to the within
specifications and in conformity with the rules and regulations above
prescribed. Catch-basins for surface drainage only may be constructed of brick
or vitrified pipe and shall be water tight, below the top of the outlet pipe,
and trapped in such a manner as to prevent any solid substances from passing
into the main drain. All other catch-basins shall be constructed of brick,
circular in section and not less than three feet (3') internal diameter, and at
least three feet ten inches (3'10") in depth, and to be two feet six inches
(2'6") in the clear from the bottom of the basin, and trapped, the bottom of
the basin to be six inches (6") below the bottom of the outlet pipe.
The brick work shall not be less than four inches in thickness, and set upon a
bottom of one inch pine lumber, and when the bricks are laid flat, they shall
not show more than four inches on the inner side of the basin, and laid in a
workmanlike manner, thoroughly imbedded in cement, so as to make the basin
water tight. The tops of the catch-basins shall be brought up to the surface of
the ground, and shall be covered with a cover which shall be three feet eight
inches (3'8") in diameter; this cover can be stone with an iron lid, or all
iron, the cover to be subject to the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Works. Manholes shall be constructed of brick and be not less than two feet six
inches (2'6") inside diameter, and laid as above specified.
4-1-38: DRAINS TO CONFORM TO SPECIFICATIONS:
All drains to be constructed in accordance with the rules and regulations and
specifications as above described.
4-1-39: DRAINS; HOW LAID:
All drains shall be laid to a point to be designated by the Engineer or his
authorized representative, the end of the terminal pipe to be securely closed
with brick masonry so as to be rendered absolutely impervious to the
surrounding material in which the pipes may be imbedded; said terminal pipe
shall not be less than two feet (2') inside the inner facing of the curb wall
or curb stone.
4-1-40: WORK TO PROGRESS CONTINUOUSLY; SUFFICIENT MEN:
Contractors shall commence work upon any street in their contract that may be
designated by the Engineer or may be changed to other streets at any time when
expediency may demand an earlier completion of the drain work.
The work shall progress continuously and sufficient men shall be employed to
insure a speedy completion of the contract. At no time shall there be a less
number than ten (10) men employed upon the work.
4-1-41: FILLING TRENCHES:
Immediately upon the completion of the drain the back filling shall be
replaced, and within ten (10) days thereafter the trench shall be thoroughly
puddled and tamped, so as to prevent subsequent settlement of the surface.
4-1-42: WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; CONTRACTORS:
Contractors will not be allowed to use water from fire hydrants unless a
special permit for the use of the same has been obtained from the Engineer.
4-1-43: LAYING PIPE:
All drains shall be laid in open trenches excavated to the proper depth, each
pipe to be laid upon a firm foundation conforming to stakes set by the Engineer
or Inspector assigned to the work, defining the true grade and proper alignment
of the drain. All pipe to be laid complete in each section, or from stake to
stake before the back filling shall commence. The stakes in each section to be
set not less than eight feet (8') apart, pipe layer to use a line drawn from
stake to stake in the same manner as public sewers are constructed in said
Village.
4-1-44: STREETS WHERE RAILWAYS OPERATED:
On streets where railways are in operation the tracks must be kept in constant
running order. Upon completion of the work, all tracks and ballast to be left
in as good condition by the contractor as they were when the work began.
4-1-45: LIABILITY OF CONTRACTOR:
Contractors will be held strictly accountable to the Village for any damage to
curb walls, curb stones, sidewalks, water and gas mains or their service
connections. Drains to be put in place according to profile in hands of
Inspector in charge of the work, subject to change at any time when so ordered
by the Engineer.
4-1-46: NO PAYMENT UNTIL INSPECTOR CERTIFIES WORK; PROPERLY EXECUTED:
No voucher will be issued or payments made until the inspector upon the work
shall have certified to the Village Engineer that the work has been executed in
accordance with the rules and regulations, and that the requirements of those
specifications have been fully complied with. All work to be paid for out of
the proper fund levied for the same when collected.
4-1-47: DISCHARGE FROM STEAM BOILERS:
No connection with, or opening into, any sewer or drain, shall be used for the
conveyance or discharge into said sewer or drain, of steam from any steam
boiler or engine or from any factory or building in which steam is either
generated or used, under the penalty of a fine of ten dollars for each and
every day during any part of which such connection or opening may have been
used for that purpose. This fine shall be imposed upon and recovered from the
owner or occupants severally and respectively, of such factory or building.
4-1-48: SEWERS; DRAINS; WHEN MUST HAVE WATER CONNECTION:
All connections with sewers or drains used for the purpose of carrying animal
refuse from water closets or otherwise, and slop of kitchens, shall have
fixtures for a sufficiency of water to be so applied as to properly carry off
such matter, under penalty of a fine of five dollars ($5.00) for each day the
same are permitted to remain without such fixtures for supplying said water.
4-1-49: CATCH BASIN; FEE:
Any person, desiring to install a catch basin shall pay therefor an
installation fee of ten dollars ($10.00) to the Treasurer the annual fee to be
paid by any person, obtaining a catch basin in the Village shall be ten dollars
($10.00) for such service, said license fee to be paid to the Treasurer.
4-1-50: GARBAGE:
No butcher's offal or garbage, dead animals or obstructions of any kind
whatsoever, shall be placed, thrown, or deposited in any receiving basin or
sewer; and any person so offending or causing any such obstruction or substance
to be placed so as to be carried into such basin or sewer, shall be subject to
a penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) for each offense; and any person injuring,
breaking or removing any portion of any receiving basin covering flag, manhole,
vent or any part of any sewer or drain shall be subject to the penalty of
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each offense.
4-1-51: CLEANING GUTTERS:
It shall be the duty of every person having charge of the cleaning of the
streets to see that the gutters are properly scraped out before the water is
suffered to flow from any hydrant for the purpose of washing the same, in order
that no substance or obstruction be carried into any of the receiving basins;
every person violating this section shall be subject to a penalty of five
dollars ($5.00) for each offense.
4-1-52: POLICEMEN TO REPORT VIOLATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the policemen to be vigilant in the enforcement of the
provisions of this Chapter, and report any violation thereof to the Marshal.
Every policeman shall, on observing or being informed of the opening of or
excavating in any street or avenue, require the person making such opening or
excavation to exhibit to him the authority or permission for such opening; and
if none has been given by the proper officer or the exhibition thereof be
refused, said Marshal shall, without delay, report the same to the Engineer.
4-1-53: NO CONNECTION TO BE MADE WITHOUT PERMIT:
Any person who shall, by himself or another, directly or indirectly make any
connection with, or an opening into any catch basin, brick or pipe sewer, now
or hereafter to be laid, without having first obtained a written permit in each
case from the proper officer, shall be subject to a fine of not less than five
dollars ($5.00), and not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense; which fine may be recovered against the owner of the property for
which such connection or opening is made, or against a person or persons making
or causing same to be made, or his or their employers.
4-1-54: UNCOVERING CATCH-BASINS:
Any person who shall uncover or excavate under or around any catch-basin, brick
or pipe sewers for any purpose whatever, without the written consent of the
Engineer, shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars, and not
exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00), the person or persons by whom such
work is done, and their employers, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of
this Chapter.
4-1-55: ALTERING DRAINS, CATCH-BASINS, ETC:
Any person who alters or disturbs any part of a house drain or drains, catch-
basin or strainer of said drain or drains, cess-pool or water closets,
connected with any brick or pipe sewer belonging to said Village, without being
duly licensed to perform same by the Village Clerk, shall be subject to a fine
of not less than ten dollars ($10.00), and not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense, which shall be recoverable against the person or
persons performing the work, or his or their employers; and shall further be
held liable to pay all expenses incurred on the account of repairs or damages
resulting from such act.
4-1-56: PROTECTING PUBLIC SEWERS:
The public sewers of the Village may be fully protected against improper use.
The Engineer, and his authorized agent, shall have free and unobstructed access
to any part of the premises where house drains, cess-pools or water closets,
connected with, or draining into said sewers, are laid for the purpose of
examining the construction, condition and usage of same, and making necessary
alterations or repairs, at any time of the day between the hours of seven a.m.
and six p.m. and any owner, occupant or other person on refusing to allow any
officer or agent of the Village, access to the premises for such purpose, shall
be liable to a fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) and not exceeding
fifty dollars ($50.00).
4-1-57: USERS OF PRIVATE SEWERS; DIRECTION DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
It shall be the duty of any person constructing or using any private drain,
sewer, cess-pool, water closet pipe or other pipe, connecting with or emptying
into any brick or pipe drain or sewer belonging to said Village to construct
and use the same, strictly in conformity with the orders and directions of the
Engineer, which orders and directions shall be given in writing for such
purpose, and any person who shall construct or use or cause to be constructed
or used any such drain, sewer, cess-pool or water closet pipe in a different
manner from that so ordered and directed by said Engineer, shall be subject to
a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00), which shall be recoverable
against the person so constructing or using said sewer, or drain pipe, or their
employer, and the owner of the lot or lots or premises in which said work is
constructed or used shall be deemed and considered as authorizing such
construction or use, and liable to such penalty.
4-1-58: DESTROYING OR INJURING SEWERS, DRAINS:
Any person who shall by himself or another, directly or indirectly, wilfully or
maliciously damage, injure or obstruct any sewer, house drain, cesspool, water
closet pipe, catch basin, manhole, protection pier or any appurtenance thereto,
now or hereafter to be laid or constructed in such Village, shall be liable for
each offense to a penalty of not less than five dollars ($5.00) and not
exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00), and shall further be liable to pay all
expenses incurred on account of repairs or damages resulting from such wilful
or malicious act.
Any person who shall by himself or another destroy or injure the bank of any
ditch, gully or open drain or place any substance therein tending to obstruct
the same, or render it obnoxious, or shall obstruct the free passage of water
through the same, or who shall by himself or another directly or indirectly tap
any public ditch therewith, without the written consent of the Engineer, first
had and obtained, shall, on conviction, be fined in a sum of not less than five
(5) or more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
4-1-59: LOCATION; CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE SEWERS OR DRAINS:
It shall be the duty of the Engineer to prescribe the location, arrangement,
form, materials and construction of every private drain or sewer emptying into
the public drains or sewers, and to determine the manner and plan of such
connection, and the work of constructing the same shall be in all cases subject
to the superintendence and control of said Engineer, through his authorized
agents, and shall be executed strictly in compliance with his orders, rules,
and regulations.
4-1-60: FEES FOR PERMITS:
The Engineer is hereby authorized to grant and issue all permits for work and
construction, as provided in this Chapter.
The fees for permits shall be as follows:
For each permit to connect with the main sewer, five dollars ($5.00).
For each permit to construct, alter or repair any sewer, or drain, not
involving a new connection with such main sewers, the sum of fifty cents. ($
0.50).
Which fees shall be paid to said Commissioner for the use of said Village.
4-1-61: SUSPENDING LICENSE:
The Engineer shall have power to suspend the license of any sewer builder or
drain layer for violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter, which
suspension, unless sooner revoked by him, shall continue until the meeting of
the Board of Trustees next ensuing, when said Engineer shall report such
suspension to the Board of Trustees with his reason therefor. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD DEALERS
SECTION:
4-2-1: General Food Regulations
4-2-2: Meat
4-2-3: Sale of Unwholesome Food
4-2-4: Sanitation
4-2-5: Report of Food
4-2-6: Penalty
4-2-7: Inspection
4-2-8: Contents of Package to be Uniform
4-2-9: Sales in Bulk Excepted
4-2-10: Duty of Health Commissioner
4-2-11: Detection of Offenders
4-2-12: Unwholesome Vegetables and Fruit
4-2-13: Impure of Adulterated Water, Drugs or Food
4-2-14: Revocation of Licenses
4-2-15: Marks on Packages
4-2-1: GENERAL FOOD REGULATIONS:
   (A)   No meat, fish, fowl, birds, vegetables, milk, fruit, or food of any
kind, not being healthful, fresh, sound, wholesome and safe for human food,
shall be brought within said Village or offered or held for sale as such food,
or kept or stored anywhere in the Village.
4-2-2: MEAT:
No calf, pig or lamb or the meat thereof, shall be brought, held or offered for
sale as food in said Village, which at the date of its being killed, if a calf,
was less than four weeks old; or, if a pig, was less than five weeks old; or,
if a lamb, was less than eight weeks old.
4-2-3: SALE OF UNWHOLESOME FOOD:
No meat, fish, vegetables, or milk, or unwholesome liquid, shall knowingly be
brought, held, sold, offered for sale, labeled or any representation made in
respect thereof, under a false name or quality, as respects wholesomeness,
soundness or safety for food or drink.
4-2-4: SANITATION:
Every person being the owner, lessee or occupant of any room, stall or place
where any meat, fish or vegetables designed or intended for human food, shall
be stored, kept or offered for sale, shall put and keep such room, stall, place
and premises and its appurtenances in a clean and wholesome condition; and
every person having charge or being interested or engaged, whether as principal
or agent in the care, custody or sale of any meat, fish, birds, fowls or
vegetables designed for human foods, shall put and preserve the same in a clean
and wholesome condition, and shall not allow the same or any part thereof to be
poisoned, infected or rendered unsafe or unwholesome for such food.
4-2-5: REPORT OF FOOD:
It shall be the duty of every person knowing of any fish, meat, fowls, birds or
vegetables being bought, sold, offered for or held for sale as food for human
beings, or being in any public or private market in said Village, and not being
sound, healthful or wholesome for such food, to forthwith report such facts and
the particulars relating thereto to the Health Commissioner.
4-2-6: PENALTY:
If any person shall expose for sale in any market house or elsewhere in said
Village any emanciated, tainted or putrid meat or provisions of any kind, which
from these or other causes are unwholesome such person shall on conviction, be
fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each and every offense; and it shall be the duty of the Health
Commissioner to forthwith seize and confiscate all such meats and provisions.
4-2-7: INSPECTION:
Every butcher, grocer and milk dealer and their agents shall allow the parties
authorized by the Health Commissioner to freely and fully inspect their cattle,
milk, meats, fish, vegetables and other provisions held, offered or intended
for sale, and shall to the best of their knowledge answer all reasonable and
proper questions asked by such inspector relative to the condition thereof, and
to the places where such articles may be.
4-2-8: CONTENTS ON PACKAGE TO BE UNIFORM:
No firm, person or corporation, shall within the Village, sell or offer for
sale, or have in his possession for the purpose of selling or offering for
sale, any basket, box, barrel, bag, or other package of fruit, berries or
vegetables of any kind, the contents of which are not of uniform quality and
size throughout.
4-2-9: SALES IN BULK EXCEPTED:
This Section shall not apply to sales in bulk, either by the carload, by the
bushel or otherwise, where such fruits or vegetables are not sold in boxes,
bags or other packages or parcels.
4-2-10: DUTY OF HEALTH COMMISSIONER:
It shall be and hereby is made the duty of the Health Commissioner to inspect
all fruits, vegetables and berries which may be offered for sale within the
Village, and to cause the arrest and punishment of any person or corporation
who shall in any way violate any of the provisions of this Section.
4-2-11: DETECTION OF OFFENDERS:
Any person who shall have purchased any fruits, vegetables or berries sold in
violation of the provisions of this Section may produce the package or parcel
containing the same at the office of the Department of Health, and furnish
therewith an affidavit duly subscribed and sworn to showing that said parcel
was purchased within twenty-four (24) hours from the time it is so produced,
and showing that the parcel as produced contains all of the fruit, berries or
vegetables, and none, other, which is contained at the time of its purchase;
and if the Health Commissioner shall find by measuring, weighing or inspecting
the same that it is short in quantity or weight, or that the same is not of
uniform quality, or was otherwise sold in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter, it shall be and it is hereby made the duty of the Health Commissioner
to cause the arrest of the person so violating this Section or begin a suit
against such vendor to recover the penalty herein provided for such violation.
4-2-12: UNWHOLESOME VEGETABLES AND FRUIT:
No person or corporation shall bring or cause to be brought into the Village
any decayed or unwholesome vegetables, or fruit intended to be consumed or sold
or offered for sale for human good, nor shall any person or corporation keep or
store in the Village any decayed or unwholesome vegetables, or fruit.
4-2-13: IMPURE OR ADULTERATED WATER DRUGS OR FOOD:
No person, firm or corporation, or any agent or employee thereof, shall keep
for sale, offer for sale or exchange or shall sell, or deliver or expose for
sale, any drugs not conforming to the rules and standard of United States
Pharmacopoeia, or any water or liquids or foods which shall be impure,
unwholesome or adulterated or to which any harmful or injurious foreign
substance has been added.
4-2-14: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
The license of any person, firm or corporation dealing in human food or food
stuffs may be revoked for any violation of the foregoing provisions of this
Section.
4-2-15: MARKS ON PACKAGES:
Every person, firm or corporation who shall sell, at retail, within the Village
of River Grove any commodity used as human food or used in the preparation
either in part or as a whole for food for human consumption, shall be and is
hereby required to mark upon the package or other container of such commodity
or article sold, the amount in pounds or other unit of measurement together
with the price per pound or other unit of measurement and the total cost to the
purchaser of the contents of such package; provided, however, that any article
sold in its original package as purchased by such dealer having said
information thereon, or when a statement or bill, showing said information
accompanies such package, such package need not be so marked by the person,
firm or corporation retailing same. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 3
FRUIT STORES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: License Required
4-3-3: Fee
4-3-4: Sanitation
4-3-5: Inspections
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
The term "fruit store" as used in this Chapter is hereby defined as and shall
be construed to mean any establishment for the retail sale of fresh fruits,
berries and vegetables.
4-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or conduct a Fruit Store without first having obtained
a license therefor. Application for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk,
and it shall be his duty to refer each application to the Health Commissioner
or some other officer designated by the President. It shall be the duty of the
Health Commissioner or such other officer to investigate the premises on which
it is intended to conduct the fruit store, and to report as to his findings. No
license shall be issued to conduct a fruit store in any building or premises
maintained in an unsanitary or unhealthful condition. Fruit stores licenses may
be revoked for a violation of any provision of this Chapter, or of any other
regulation of the Village.
4-3-3: FEE:
The annual fee for a fruit store license shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00); no
license shall be issued except upon payment of the fee. No person licensed to
operate a fruit store shall operate a grocery store in connection therewith
except upon obtaining a grocery store license in addition to the fruit store
license.
4-3-4: SANITATION:
It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation operating a fruit
store to keep and maintain the same in a sanitary condition. It shall be
unlawful to permit any waste material to accumulate on the premises; and the
premises must be kept free from flies, rodents, and vermin. It shall be
unlawful to employ any person afflicted with a venereal or other contagious
disease in any fruit store.
4-3-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner or some other officer
designated by the President to make inspection of every fruit store in the
Village at least once every three months. The person making the inspection
shall report any violation of this Section or of any other provision of this
Code to the President.
CHAPTER 4
GROCERY STORES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definition
4-4-2: License Required
4-4-3: Fee
4-4-4: Sanitation
4-4-5: Inspections
4-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "Grocery Store" as used in this Chapter is hereby defined as and shall
be construed to mean any establishment for the sale at retail of butter,
cheese, vegetables, bottled milk, or other provisions; but the term "Grocery
Store" shall not include meat markets, fruit stores, nor milk dealers as the
same are defined and licensed in other Chapters of this Code.
4-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or conduct a grocery store without first having
obtained a license therefor from the Clerk. It shall be the duty of the Clerk
to refer applications for such licenses to the Health Commissioner or some
other officer designated by the President. The Health Commissioner or such
other officer shall investigate the premises intended to be used, and shall
report as to whether the premises comply with the provisions of this Code, and
as to their sanitary condition. No license shall be issued for the
establishment of a Grocery Store in any unsanitary or unhealthful place. All
grocery store licenses may be revoked by the President upon violation by the
licensee of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any other provision of
the Code of this Village.
4-4-3: FEE:
The annual fee for a Grocery Store shall be fifty dollars, ($50.00) and no
license shall be issued except upon payment of the fee. A person to whom a
license has been issued, under this Section, to operate a grocery store, may,
in addition, sell meat, meat products, poultry or fish and/or fresh fruit and
vegetables on the licensed premises in connection with his grocery business
without obtaining separate licenses to sell such additional products as
required by Section
4-3-3 and Section
4-6-3 of this Code.
4-4-4: SANITATION:
Every premise or building used for a grocery store must be kept in a sanitary
and clean condition. It shall be unlawful to employ any person afflicted with a
venereal or any contagious disease in a grocery store. No refuse of any sort
shall be allowed to accumulate in any part of the premises used for the storage
or display of food stuffs, and such premises must be kept free from flies,
rodents and vermin.
4-4-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Inspector, or some other officer designated
by the President, to inspect every grocery store in the Village at least once
every three months, to discover violations and to enforce the provisions of
this Section.
CHAPTER 5
ICE CREAM PARLORS
SECTION:
4-5-1: License Required
4-5-2: Fee
4-5-3: Sanitation
4-5-4: Inspections
4-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate an Ice Cream Parlor without having first
obtained a license therefor. Application for such licenses shall be made in
writing to the Clerk, and he shall cause an investigation to be made into the
character of the applicant. No license shall be issued to any person who is not
a person of good character.
4-5-2: FEE:
The annual fee for a license far an Ice Cream Parlor shall be ten dollars
($10.00); No license shall be issued except upon the payment of the fee.
Provided that any person, firm or corporation licensed to do business as a
restaurant may serve Ice Cream as part of the restaurant service without the
payment of an additional fee.
4-5-3: SANITATION:
It shall be the duty of every person licensed under this Section to maintain
the premises used as an Ice Cream Parlor in a clean and sanitary condition. It
shall be unlawful to permit any waste material of any kind to accumulate and it
shall be kept free from flies, rodents, and vermin. It shall be unlawful to
employ in any Ice Cream Parlor any person afflicted with a venereal or
contagious disease.
It shall be unlawful to serve or keep in any Ice Cream Parlor any unwholesome,
spoiled or stale food or ice cream.
4-5-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Inspector or some other officer designated
by the President to investigate every establishment licensed under this Section
at least once every three months to insure compliance with the provisions of
this Section and with all other provisions relating thereto.
CHAPTER 6
MEAT MARKETS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definition
4-6-2: License Required
4-6-3: Fees
4-6-4: Sanitation
4-6-5: Inspections
4-6-6: Weighing
4-6-7: Refrigerators
4-6-1: DEFINITION:
The term "meat market" as used in this Section is hereby defined as and shall
be construed to mean any establishment maintained for the sale or retail of
fresh meats, meat products, poultry or fish.
4-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate a meat market without first having obtained
a license therefor from the Clerk. It shall be the duty of the Clerk upon
receipt of an application for such license to refer the same to the Health
Commissioner or any other officer designated by the President. The Health
Commissioner or such other officer shall investigate the premises upon which it
is intended to conduct or operate the meat market and shall report as to the
condition thereof. No license shall be issued to conduct a market in any
building or premises which is in a unsanitary or unhealthful condition. Any
meat market license may be revoked for a violation of any of the provisions of
this Chapter, or of any of the provisions of the Village Code.
4-6-3: FEES:
The annual license fee for a meat market shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) and
no license shall be issued except upon payment of the fee. No person, licensed
to operate a meat market shall operate a grocery store in connection therewith
without having first obtained a grocery store license in addition to the meat
market license. (11-20-47)
4-6-4: SANITATION:
Premises used for a meat market must be kept in a clean sanitary condition. It
shall be unlawful to permit refuse of any sort to accumulate on such premises;
and the premises must be kept free from flies, rodents and vermin. It shall be
unlawful to employ in any meat market any person afflicted with a venereal or
any contagious disease.
4-6-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner or some other officer
designated by the President to inspect every meat market in the Village at
least once every three months, to detect any violations of provisions governing
same.
4-6-6: WEIGHING:
All meats sold at any place of business licensed under the provisions of this
Chapter except shanks, offal, heads and plucks, poultry and wild game, shall be
sold by weight and shall be weighed on a scale or weighed on a beam, properly
sealed, and in case any fraud shall be committed in the weight of the meat, and
in case any meat, except aforesaid shall be sold without being weighed, as
herein directed, the person selling the same shall be subject to a fine, as
hereinafter provided.
4-6-7: REFRIGERATORS:
No keeper of a meat market or dealer in meat shall keep in any meat market, any
refrigerator or ice box, unless the same shall be lined with lead or some
proper substance so as to be water tight, nor unless the same be provided with
a pipe of lead, zinc or copper leading therefrom to a proper waste pipe.
CHAPTER 7
MILK DEALERS
SECTION:
4-7-1: License Required
4-7-2: Application for License, Contents Thereof
4-7-3: License Plate to be Secured, etc.
4-7-4: Health Commissioner To Inspect Places Where Milk is Kept
4-7-5: Commissioners empowered to Enter Places Where Milk is Stored
4-7-6: Milk or Cream to be Analyzed, Manner Thereof
4-7-7: Standard of Milk or Cream for Sale
4-7-8: Percentage of Butter Fat Required; Certain Milk not to be Sold
4-7-9: Metallic Tag to Indicate Skim Milk When Sold
4-7-10: Containers in Which Milk is Sold; Markings Thereon
4-7-11: Artificial Coloring Prohibited
4-7-12: Milk Must Come From Certain Type of Animals; Bacteria Rating
4-7-13: Licensed Persons, Care of Containers; Disease, etc.
4-7-14: Buildings, etc. Conditions Thereof as Dairies; Employees therein
4-7-15: Animals from Milk is Obtained, to be examined
4-7-16: Ice Cream Dealers, etc. To Use Certain Milks.
4-7-17: Diseased Cows
4-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or persons, firm or corporation shall engage in the sale, delivery or
distribution of milk within the Village unless such person or persons, firm or
corporation shall be licensed in the manner following, viz:
   (A)   Every milk or cream vendor selling, offering for sale, exchange or
delivery, or disposing of the same in or from any stand, booth, market place,
warehouse, milk store or dairy, in other than bottle form shall pay an annual
license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (B)   Every person or persons, firm or corporation selling milk or cream or
offering for sale or exchange or delivery or disposing of the same in bottle
form only shall pay an annual license fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   (C)   Every person or persons, firm or corporation selling milk or cream or
offering for sale or exchange or delivery or disposing of the same in or from
any wagon, carriage, automobile or vehicle shall pay the sum of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per annum for each such vehicle. (11-20-47)
4-7-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, CONTENTS THEREOF:
The President shall issue the licenses mentioned in the name of the applicant
therefor, when and at the time such applicant shall exhibit to the President a
receipt from the Village Clerk showing the payment in full of the fee.
The Village Clerk shall show on said receipt the purpose for which the fee is
paid and shall issue to every applicant paying the fee herein a satisfactory
receipt. Before the issuance of the license every vendor shall make written
application and have the same signed by the Health Commissioner and approved by
the President on forms to be provided for that purpose by the Village and which
shall contain, first, the name, residence, location or business place or places
of the applicant and the locality from which the Milk is obtained; second, the
number of cows, if any, owned or controlled by applicant; and third, the number
and description of every wagon, carriage, automobile, or vehicle used by the
applicant in said business.
If, after the issuance of the license any change is made in the location of the
place of business other than that indicated on the license or in the
application, or change in the address of the licensee, immediate notice shall
be given to the Clerk.
4-7-3: LICENSE PLATE TO BE SECURED, ETC:
No milk or cream shall be sold, offered for sale, exchanged or delivered,
transported, conveyed or carried in any wagon, or other vehicle, unless the
owner or owners thereof shall first obtain a license and one painted metal
plate or sticker on which shall be stamped the number corresponding with the
license together with the year for which the license is issued, which plate or
sticker shall be securely fastened on the vehicle licensed in a conspicuous
place so that the same may be clearly visible from side of such vehicle.
4-7-4: HEALTH COMMISSIONER TO INSPECT PLACES WHERE MILK IS KEPT:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner to visit, view and inspect all
places and vehicles in which milk or cream may be sold, offered for sale,
stored, kept, exchanged, delivered or disposed of, also inspect, view and
examine all vessels, cans, receptacles, packages, refrigerators or compartments
or store-places, or buildings, of any and all kinds containing milk or cream
and they are hereby empowered, directed and authorized to cause the removal and
abatement of any unfit, unclean or injurious condition with reference to the
cleanliness and sanitation with the keeping, storing or possession of milk or
cream in any such places.
4-7-5: COMMISSIONERS EMPOWERED TO ENTER PLACES WHERE MILK IS STORED:
The Health Commissioner is empowered and it shall be his duty to enter, and
have full access, egress and ingress, to all places where milk or cream is
stored or kept for sale, to all wagons, railroad cars or other vehicles used
for the conveyance, delivery or transportation of milk or cream to any
warehouse, place of business, factory, building, farm, stable, railroad depot,
erection, establishment or place of any kind, all vessels, cans, packages,
refrigerators, and receptacles, and to take samples of milk and cream in
amounts not to exceed one quart for testing or other purposes.
4-7-6: MILK OR CREAM TO BE ANALYZED, MANNER THEREOF:
All samples of milk and cream procured as aforesaid shall be analyzed and
satisfactorily tested. The result of such analysis or test shall be recorded
and preserved by the Health Commissioner and may be used as evidence.
Whenever milk or cream so tested or analyzed shall be found in violation of the
requirements of this Chapter pertaining to milk and cream in this Village, said
officials shall immediately take the necessary steps to prevent any sale or
other disposition of the milk or cream and shall immediately take necessary
steps for a prosecution for violation thereof.
The analysis or test required herein shall be made with such instruments,
apparatus, chemicals or other articles as may be deemed necessary by the Health
Commissioner with the approval of the Board. The Health Commissioner shall have
the aid of any official in the carrying out of his duties herein.
4-7-7: STANDARD OF MILK OR CREAM FOR SALE:
Cows milk is the whole fresh, clean, lacteal secretion obtained by the complete
milking of one or more healthy cows, that are properly fed and kept, excluding
milk obtained within fifteen days before and fifteen days after calving, or
such longer periods as may be required to render the milk practically colostrum
free and shall conform in milk fats, and solids to the provisions of an Act of
the General Assembly of the State of Illinois entitled: "An Act to prevent
fraud in the sale of Dairy Products, their imitation or substitutes, to
prohibit and prevent the manufacture and sale of unhealthful, adulterated or
misbranded food, liquid or dairy products, to provide for the appointment of a
State Food Commissioner and his Assistants, to define their powers and duties
and to repeal all Acts relating to the production, manufacture and sale of
dairy and food products and liquors in conflict herewith." Approved May 14,
1907 and all amendments thereto.
All skim milk, butter milk and cream shall conform to the standards fixed in
the last mentioned law and the sale or offering for sale of any of the
aforementioned not in conformity therewith is prohibited. Having in possession
with intent to sell any of the aforementioned not in conformity with said law
is also prohibited.
4-7-8: PERCENTAGE OF BUTTER FAT REQUIRED; CERTAIN MILK NOT TO BE SOLD:
No cream shall be sold, offered for sale, exchanged, delivered or transported
or carried for the purpose of sale, offering for sale, exchange or delivery,
that contains less than eighteen per centum of butter fat, or that is obtained
from any impure, diseased, unhealthy, unclean, adulterated, or unwholesome
milk, or milk to which any foreign or other substance has been added, or milk
containing less than three per centum butter fat or from cows fed on refuse or
slops, mash or food which has been subject to fermentation or any other than
good and wholesome food.
4-7-9: METALLIC TAG TO INDICATE SKIM MILK WHEN SOLD:
Any vendor of milk or cream, or any driver, servant or agent who shall, in the
Village, sell or offer for sale any milk from which the cream or any part
thereof shall have been taken, shall offer for sale and sell the same as skim
milk and not otherwise. Such skim milk shall not be sold, or offered for sale,
and no vendor shall have in his custody, possession or control, with intent to
sell or deliver the same any such milk from which the cream or any part thereof
shall have been taken, unless the can, vessel or package containing such milk
shall have conspicuously attached thereto a steel or metallic tag with the
words "Skimmed Milk" engrossed in large, plain, distinct letters, such tag to
be not less than three inches by five inches (3"x5") in dimension.
4-7-10: CONTAINERS IN WHICH MILK IS SOLD; MARKINGS THEREON:
No milk, except skim milk, buttermilk or sour milk, shall be peddled or sold at
retail in quantities less than one gallon except in containers bearing the true
name of the article, the name and address of the producer, dealer or
distributor and the net volume of the contents in accordance with the Illinois
Dairy and Food Law and no person shall sell milk or cream in any bottle or
container other than those bearing the sellers name or to which he has acquired
title as required by the Illinois Dairy and Food Law.
4-7-11: ARTIFICIAL COLORING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to sell any milk or cream containing any artificial
coloring or preservative or to which water or any foreign substance has been
added or which has been handled or transported in unclean or unsanitary vessels
or containers.
4-7-12: MILK MUST COME FROM CERTAIN TYPE OF ANIMALS; BACTERIA RATING:
All raw milk offered, exposed or kept for sale or distribution to the milk
dealers or wholesalers of raw milk in the Village must come from animals under
State and Federal Supervision and proven free from all contagious and
infectious diseases, shall not contain more than one hundred thousand (100,000)
bacteria per cubic centimeter nor any pathogenic bacteria and shall be produced
under the following conditions:
All persons living upon the farms, employed thereon, handling or coming in
contact with the milk in dairies or other places shall be free from contagious
or infectious diseases and shall not have been exposed to any one having such
disease.
No person who is a typhoid, paratyphoid, diphtheria or septic sore throat
carrier shall be employed in the production or handling of such milk.
It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation with a knowledge of
the facts to notify the Health Commissioner or other legally qualified
authorities at once by telephone or otherwise of the occurrence of any of the
above afflictions in persons living or employed in and about the place where
milk is produced, handled or sold. Milk and milk derivatives that have been
exposed shall not be shipped into or sold in this Village without the proper
consent.
Certified milk is defined as a milk produced under a regularly constituted
Medical Milk Commission in accordance with the methods and standards adopted by
the American Association of Medical Milk Commission in San Francisco,
California, June 25 and 26, 1923 and any amendments thereto which may be
adopted by said association.
4-7-13: LICENSED PERSONS; CARE OF CONTAINERS; DISEASE:
Any vendor or person licensed hereunder who receives fresh milk in cans,
bottles, or containers shall cause said cans, bottles or other containers, to
be emptied immediately and before the contents become sour or stagnant and
shall cause said cans, bottles or other containers to be immediately washed and
thoroughly cleaned, first, washed in cold water and then with warm water and
soap and or other approved chemical and then thoroughly scoured, aired and
sterilized.
When a communicable disease appears on premises where milk is produced handled
or sold, the sale, exchange, removal or distribution in any manner whatsoever
of milk, cream or milk products found, produced, or handled on such premises is
strictly prohibited until quarantine, if declared, has been terminated and the
premises and contents thereof, including all milk utensils have been
disinfected under the supervision of the Health Commissioner. Provided that in
the event of a communicable disease occurring on a dairy farm, the local Health
Authority or the proper Health Agencies of the State may grant permission for
removal of the dairy cattle to other premises. When cows are so removed they
may be milked and the products sold, provided that neither persons nor utensils
from the quarantined premises are used in the milking or handling of the milk
on the new premises.
Milk may be delivered at quarantined premises providing there is no contact
between the persons or inmates thereof and the contents of the quarantined
premises with the delivery agent. Milk may be placed in a clean container
outside the house by the delivery agent without handling the container,
provided however, no milk, bottle, basket or any other article is taken out or
away from the quarantined premises until the same are sterilized under the
direction of the Health Commissioner.
4-7-14: BUILDINGS, ETC.; CONDITIONS THEREOF; AS DAIRIES, EMPLOYEES THEREIN:
Every building, room, basement, inclosure or premises occupied, used or
maintained as a dairy or milk depot or any place where milk is bottled, handled
or sold shall be properly and adequately lighted, drained, plumbed, and
ventilated and shall be conducted with strict regard to the influence such
conditions have upon the health of the operatives, employees, clerks or other
persons therein employed and the purity and wholesomeness of the milk therein
produced, prepared, manufactured, packed, stored, sold or distributed. No such
place shall employ anyone who has a communicable disease or who is a carrier of
any such disease and before any person who has had typhoid or paratyphoid
fever, diphtheria or septic sore throat recently, is employed, they must
satisfy the Department of Health and Safety, that they are not carriers of such
diseases.
4-7-15: ANIMALS FROM MILK IS OBTAINED, TO BE EXAMINED:
No milk or cream shall be sold, offered for sale, or distributed in the Village
unless each and every animal in the herd from which said milk is obtained shall
be under State and Federal Supervision and have been examined to the
satisfaction of the Health Commissioner within one year. Such examination must
show animals free from contagious or infectious diseases. Tests and
examinations shall be conducted in number as may be deemed, advisable by the
Health Commissioner. When a test is made the Veterinary in making said test,
shall give to the owner or keeper of said herd a certificate in form as
provided on blanks furnished by the Health Commissioner, and shall be sworn and
subscribed to before any officer authorized by law to take acknowledgements of
deeds. Any increase made to a herd shall immediately be examined and a report
of said tests made to the Health Commissioner within two weeks thereafter.
4-7-16: ICE CREAM DEALERS, ETC.; TO USE CERTAIN MILKS:
All manufacturers, dealers, or makers of ice cream, butter, cheese and bakery
goods in the manufacture and production of such articles shall use only milk or
cream that passes the test and requirements of this Chapter.
4-7-17: DISEASED COWS:
Milk or cream therefrom, shall not be sold, offered for sale, exchanged,
delivered, or kept or exposed for sale, if secured from sick or diseased cows,
but shall be destroyed immediately. If the Health Commissioner finds any cow
afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease, he shall direct the owner or
person in charge to immediately remove said cow from the premises to a secluded
place.
CHAPTER 8
RESTAURANTS
SECTION:
4-8-1: License
4-8-2: Persons Convicted of Selling Intoxicating Drinks
4-8-3: Application
4-8-4: Application to be Submitted to President
4-8-5: License Fee
4-8-6: Regulations
4-8-7: Inspection Samples
4-8-8: Revocation
4-8-1: LICENSE:
No person shall engage in the business of conducting a restaurant without first
obtaining an annual license therefor.
4-8-2: PERSONS CONVICTED OF SELLING INTOXICATING DRINKS:
The President and Board of Trustees, at their discretion, may refuse to issue a
restaurant license to any person, for the keeping or conducting of a
restaurant, who has been convicted of selling intoxicating liquors in the
Village, and the Board of Trustees may revoke the license of any person who
shall hereafter be convicted of selling intoxicating liquors while conducting a
restaurant within the corporate limits of the Village.
4-8-3: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring a license to keep a restaurant shall make a written
application for that purpose to the Health Commissioner, in which shall be
described the premises wherein such restaurant is proposed to be kept, and
their location. Said application shall be accompanied by evidence that the
applicant, if any individual, all the members of a firm, if a co-partnership,
and the person or persons in charge of the business, if a corporation, is or
are persons of good character and reputation, and also that the premises where
such restaurant is proposed to be kept are proper and suitable for that purpose
from a hygienic and sanitary standpoint.
4-8-4: APPLICATION TO BE SUBMITTED TO PRESIDENT:
The Health Commissioner shall thereupon submit to the President said
application, with the evidence aforesaid, with his opinion as to the propriety
of granting such license, and if the President shall be satisfied that the
persons before mentioned are of good character and reputation, and are suitable
persons to be authorized to keep a restaurant, and that the premises where it
is to be proposed to keep said restaurant are proper and suitable for the
purpose, from a hygienic and sanitary standpoint, he shall issue or cause to be
issued a license, in accordance with such application.
4-8-5: LICENSE FEE:
The minimum annual fee for a license required by this Chapter shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00), which shall be paid to the Clerk.
If any restaurant to be licensed under the provisions of this Chapter shall
have provided for its customers chairs or counter stools in excess of fifty
(50) in number, an additional license fee of one dollar ($1.00) for each such
chair or counter stool in excess of fifty (50) shall be paid. (4-23-59)
4-8-6: REGULATIONS:
It shall be the duty of every keeper of a restaurant to, at all times keep the
premises wherein such restaurant is located, clean and in proper hygienic and
sanitary condition; all utensils, appliances, vessels, receptacles,
refrigerators, pantries, rooms and any other place or thing whatsoever, which
is used for the purpose of storage, preparation, cooking or serving of foods,
must at all times, be kept in a clean wholesome and sanitary condition; no
decaying, unwholesome or impure food of any kind whatsoever shall be kept,
sold, offered for sale or served in any restaurant. Every person who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Section, shall on conviction thereof be
fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense.
4-8-7: INSPECTION SAMPLES:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner and he is hereby authorized and
empowered, from time to time to inspect and examine all premises wherein
restaurants are conducted, for the purpose of ascertaining whether this Code,
and all the provisions of this Code of the Village of River Grove and the laws
of the State of Illinois, relative to the keeping of restaurants, are being
complied with at such place, and it shall be their duty to cause all such laws
to be strictly enforced. It shall be the duty of every keeper of a restaurant
to permit such inspections to be made, and when required, to furnish samples of
any foods kept, sold, offered for sale or served in such restaurants, which
samples shall be examined or analyzed by or under the direction of said Board
of Health, and a record of each such examination or analysis shall be made and
kept on file in their office.
4-8-8: REVOCATION:
Any license so granted may be revoked by the President by notice in writing,
whenever it shall appear to his satisfaction that the person so licensed shall
have violated the provisions of any law of the State of Illinois, or of this or
of any other provisions of this Code of the Village of River Grove relative to
the keeping of restaurants, or any condition of the bond aforesaid.
CHAPTER 9
FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-9-1: License Required
4-9-2: License Fee
4-9-3: Sanitation
4-9-4: Inspections
4-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person traveling from place to place on, along, or upon streets who shall
sell, offer for sale or delivery, from any wagon, automobile or other vehicle
any fruit or vegetables shall for the purpose of this Chapter be deemed a fruit
and vegetable peddler, and shall before engaging in such business, obtain a
license as a fruit and vegetable peddler as hereinafter provided.
4-9-2: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee to sell, deal or deliver fruit and vegetables from any
wagon, automobile or other vehicles shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each
wagon, automobile or other vehicle used in or about the business.
4-9-3: SANITATION:
It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation peddling fruit and
vegetables in the Village of River Grove, to keep and maintain the same in a
sanitary condition. It shall be unlawful to permit any waste material to
accumulate on the wagon, automobile or other vehicle used, and said wagon,
automobile or other vehicle used must be kept free from flies, rodents and
vermin. It shall be unlawful to employ any person afflicted with a venereal or
other contagious disease on any such wagon, automobile or other vehicle used in
said business.
4-9-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner or some officer designated by
the President to make inspection of such wagon, automobile or other vehicle
used for the sale and delivery of fruits and vegetables. The person making the
inspection shall report any violation of this Section or of any other provision
to the President.
CHAPTER 10
WHOLESALE BREAD, PASTRY AND PIE DEALERS
SECTION:
4-10-1: License Required
4-10-2: License Fee
4-10-3: Sanitation
4-10-4: Inspections
4-10-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person traveling from place to place on, along or upon streets of the
Village, who shall sell, offer for sale or delivery, from any wagon, automobile
or other vehicle to any retail dealer or restaurant, any bread, pastry or pie,
for the purpose of this Chapter be deemed a wholesale bread, pastry and pie
dealer and shall before engaging in such business obtain a license as a bread,
pastry and pie dealer, as hereinafter provided.
4-10-2: LICENSE FEE:
The Annual license fee to sell, deal in or deliver bread, pastry and pie from
any vehicle shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each such vehicle. (5-20-50)
4-10-3: SANITATION:
It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation peddling bread and
pastry and pie to keep and maintain the same in a sanitary condition. It shall
be unlawful to permit any waste material to accumulate on the wagon, automobile
or other vehicle used, and said wagon, automobile or other vehicle used must be
kept free from flies, rodents and vermin. It shall be unlawful to employ any
person afflicted with a venereal or other contagious disease on any such wagon,
automobile or other vehicle used in said business.
4-10-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner or some other officer
designated by the President to make inspection of such wagon, automobile or
other vehicle used for the sale and delivery of bread, pastry and pie. The
person making the inspection shall report any violation of this Chapter or of
any other Code provision to the President.
CHAPTER 11
BAKERIES
SECTION:
4-11-1: Definition
4-11-2: Sanitary Regulations
4-11-3: Floors
4-11-4: Flies, Rodents and Vermin
4-11-5: Sleeping Facilities
4-11-6: Animals
4-11-7: Wearing Apparel
4-11-8: Expectorating
4-11-9: Tobacco
4-11-10: Storage of Materials
4-11-11: Labels on Bread
4-11-12: Inspections
4-11-13: License Fee
4-11-1: DEFINITION:
Any place or establishment used for any process of mixing, compounding or
baking, for sale, or the purpose of a restaurant, bakery or hotel, any bread,
biscuits, pretzels, crackers, buns, rolls, macaroons, cake, pies or any food
product of which flour or meal is the principal ingredient shall be deemed a
bakery for the purpose of this Chapter, provided that restaurants in which any
of the foregoing food products are mixed and baked for consumption in such
restaurant only, on or in ordinary restaurant kitchen stoves or ranges, and
kitchens or rooms in dwellings where any of the said food products are mixed
and baked in an ordinary kitchen stove or range, shall not be construed to be
bakeries.
4-11-2: SANITARY REGULATIONS:
Every place used as a bakery shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
All parts of the bakery shall be adequately lighted at all times and shall be
ventilated by means of windows or skylights or airshafts or ducts, or
mechanical apparatus, if necessary, to insure a free circulation of fresh air
at all times. Such ventilation construction and equipment shall be of such
character that a complete change of air in all parts of the bakery may be made
at least four times each hour; provided, however, that it shall not be
necessary to ventilate at such times or in such a manner that the process of
mixing or raising dough shall of necessity be interfered with or prevented.
4-11-3: FLOORS:
The floor of every place used as a bakery, if below street level, shall be
constructed of concrete, cement, asphalt, or other impervious material or of
tile laid on cement; such floor may if desired be covered with a hard wood
floor having tight joints or may be of any impervious material, as above
provided.
4-11-4: FLIES, RODENTS AND VERMIN:
Every place used as a bakery shall be kept free from flies, rodents and vermin
of all kinds.
4-11-5: SLEEPING FACILITIES:
No person shall sleep, and no sleeping accommodations shall be maintained, in
any bakery or in the rooms where flour or meal used in connection therewith, or
the food products made therein, are handled or stored.
4-11-6: ANIMALS:
No animals, except cats, shall be permitted in a bakery or where flour or meal
is stored in connection therewith and suitable provision shall be made to
prevent nuisances from the presence of cats.
4-11-7: WEARING APPAREL:
All workmen and employees, while engaged in the manufacture or handling of
bakery products in a bakery, shall provide themselves with slippers or shoes
and a suit of washable material which shall be used for the purpose only. These
garments shall at all times be kept clean.
4-11-8: EXPECTORATING:
It shall be unlawful to expectorate on the floor, walls or furniture of any
bakery. Cuspidors sufficient in number to supply the need therefor shall be
provided in every bakery, and shall be cleaned daily.
4-11-9: TOBACCO:
The use of tobacco in any form in a bakery is hereby prohibited. Notices to
this effect shall be placed in a prominent place in every bakery by the
proprietor thereof, but the absence of such notice shall not excuse any person
for a violation of this provision.
4-11-10: STORAGE OF MATERIALS:
All rooms for the storage of flour or meal for use in connection with any
bakery shall be dry and well ventilated, and every bakery and room used for the
storage of materials and food products in connection therewith shall be so
arranged that the shelves, cupboards, trays, troughs, bins, cases and all other
appliances for handling and storing the same can be easily removed and cleaned.
4-11-11: LABELS ON BREAD:
All bread sold or offered for sale at retail shall bear on each loaf a tag
showing the true weight of such loaf.
4-11-12: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Health and safety to make or cause
to be made such inspections as may be necessary to see to it that the
provisions of this Chapter are fully complied with.
4-11-13: LICENSE FEE:
Bakeries shall pay an annual license fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00).
CHAPTER 12
COFFEE AND TEA PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-12-1: License Required
4-12-2: License Fee
4-12-3: Sanitation
4-12-4: Inspections
4-12-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person, traveling from place to place on, along or upon streets of the
Village, who shall sell, offer for sale or deliver, from any wagon, automobile
or other vehicle any coffee or tea, shall for the purpose of this Chapter be
deemed a coffee and tea peddler, and shall before engaging in such business,
obtain a license as a coffee and tea peddler as hereinafter provided.
4-12-2: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee to sell, deal or deliver coffee or tea from any vehicle
shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each vehicle used in or about said
business. (4-20-50)
4-12-3: SANITATION:
It shall be the duty of every person, peddling coffee and tea, to keep and
maintain the same in a sanitary condition. It shall be unlawful to permit any
waste material to accumulate on the wagon, automobile or other vehicle used,
and said wagon, automobile or other vehicle used must be kept free from flies,
rodents and vermin; it shall be unlawful to employ any person afflicted with a
venereal or other contagious disease on any such wagon, automobile or other
vehicle used in said business.
4-12-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner or some other officer
designated by the President to make inspection of such wagon, automobile or
other vehicle used for the sale and delivery of coffee and tea. The person
making the inspection shall report any violation of this Chapter or of any
other Code provision to the President.
CHAPTER 13
WHOLESALE ICE CREAM DEALERS
SECTION:
4-13-1: License Required
4-13-2: License Fee
4-13-3: Sanitation
4-13-4: Inspections
4-13-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person traveling from place to place on, along or upon streets, who shall
sell, offer for sale or delivery, from any wagon, automobile or other vehicle
any ice cream, shall for the purpose of this Chapter be deemed a wholesale ice
cream dealer, and shall before engaging in such business, obtain a license as a
wholesale ice cream dealer as hereinafter provided.
4-13-2: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee to sell, deal or deliver ice cream from any wagon,
automobile or other vehicles, as provided in the foregoing Section, shall be
ten dollars ($10.00) for each wagon, automobile or other vehicle used in or
about the business.
4-13-3: SANITATION:
It shall be the duty of every person peddling ice cream, to keep and maintain
the same in a sanitary condition. It shall be unlawful to permit any waste
material to accumulate on the wagon, automobile or other vehicle used, and said
wagon, automobile or other vehicle used must be kept free from flies, rodents
and vermin. It shall be unlawful to employ any person afflicted with a venereal
or other contagious disease on any such wagon, automobile or other vehicle used
in said business.
4-13-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner or some other officer
designated by the President to make inspection of such wagon, automobile or
other vehicle used for the sale and delivery of ice cream. The person making
the inspection shall report any violation of this Chapter or of any other Code
provision to the President.
CHAPTER 14
VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
4-14-1: Definitions
4-14-2: License Required
4-14-3: Application
4-14-4: License Fee
4-14-5: License To Be Displayed
4-14-6: Requirements
4-14-7: Inspections
4-14-8: Location
4-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
AUTOMATIC FOOD VENDING MACHINE: Any machine, container or device used for the
sale and dispensing of any article of food, the operation of which depends upon
or is controlled by the deposit of one or more coins or tokens.
AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINE: Any machine, container or device used for the sale
and dispensing of any article, the operation of which depends upon or is
controlled by the deposit of one or more coins or tokens.
FOOD: Any cooked or uncooked material, solid, liquid or combination thereof,
excluding alcoholic beverages, intended to be consumed by human beings. (Ord.
2006-02, 2-16-2006)
4-14-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person or entity shall engage directly or indirectly in the
business of installing, keeping or maintaining automatic vending machines or
automatic food vending machines without first having obtained a license to do
so.
   (B)   No person or entity shall directly or indirectly install, keep,
maintain, operate or use, or permit the installation, keeping, maintenance,
operation or use of any automatic vending machine or automatic food vending
machine on the person's or entity's premises without first having obtained a
license as herein provided, and all persons or entities permitting another
person or entity to install, keep, maintain, operate or use any automatic
vending machine or automatic food vending machine on or within the person's or
entity's premises shall be jointly responsible for ensuring that all such
machines are properly licensed before permitting same to be installed, kept,
maintained, used or operated. (Ord. 2006-02, 2-16-2006)
4-14-3: APPLICATION:
Applications for a license, as herein required, shall be made in writing to the
clerk and shall state, in addition to the requirements of the applicable
provisions of any other chapter of this code, the name and address of the owner
of each automatic vending machine or automatic food vending machine installed,
kept or maintained in this village, and, if a corporation, the name and address
of its president and secretary; the type and serial number of each unit to be
installed, kept or maintained and the kind of product or food to be dispensed
by each machine. (Ord. 2006-02, 2-16-2006)
4-14-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a license required by this chapter shall be sixty dollars
($60.00) for each automatic vending machine or automatic food vending machine
to be installed, kept or maintained in the village, provided that such machine
is controlled and operated by a single coin or token slot. In the event that
the automatic vending machine or automatic food vending machine contains more
than one coin or token slot which controls the operation of the machine, the
fee for a license shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00) per coin or token slot
per machine. A license shall be valid through April 30 following the date of
issuance by the clerk.
All license renewal fees shall be paid on or before May 1 of the year in which
a current license expires. Failure to obtain a license prior to the
installation, operation and use of any machine, or the failure to renew any
license on or before May 1 shall result in a doubling of the applicable license
fee per machine, provided that no licensee shall pay late licensing fees in
excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2006-02, 2-16-2006)
4-14-5: LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED:
Upon the issuance of a license, the clerk shall deliver to the licensee a decal
for each machine to be installed, kept or maintained, and it shall be the duty
of the licensee and the owner or operator of the premises in which each machine
is located to affix such decal to the machine for which it was issued. (Ord.
2006-02, 2-16-2006)
4-14-6: REQUIREMENTS:
All food purveyed or dispensed by any automatic food vending machine shall be
clean, wholesome, free from taint, decay or infection and contain no poisonous,
deleterious or injurious ingredients in kind and quantity, so as to render such
articles injurious or detrimental to health. All such food shall be adequately
protected against improper handling, dirt, dust, flies, insects, vermin or
other contamination. (Ord. 2006-02, 2-16-2006)
4-14-7: INSPECTIONS:
The health and code enforcement officer shall make, or cause to be made,
periodic inspections of automatic food vending machines and articles of food
purveyed or dispensed therefrom and places of business in which such machines
are installed, kept or maintained to determine the purity and wholesomeness of
the food purveyed or dispensed, the proper wrapping and handling of same and to
see that all the requirements of this chapter or applicable provisions of any
other provisions of this code are met and complied with. (Ord. 2006-02, 2-16-
2006)
4-14-8: LOCATION:
No person or entity licensed to install, keep, maintain, operate or use any
automatic vending machine or automatic food vending machine on the person's or
entity's premises shall locate any such vending machine within the premises
other than in a location that is clearly open and in plain view of the owner or
lessee, their employees and agents, and the general public at all times any
vending machine is in use and operation. All persons or entities permitting
another person or entity to install, keep, maintain, operate or use any
automatic vending machine or automatic food vending machine on or within the
person's or entity's premises shall be jointly responsible for ensuring that
all such machines are properly located before permitting same to be installed,
kept, maintained, used or operated. The specific location of each vending
machine shall be identified by the applicant on the floor plan submitted with
the application for license, and each specific location of each vending machine
shall be approved by the village before a license is issued for said machine.
During the license period, no vending machine shall be relocated within the
premises without the written approval of the village. Any person or entity
locating any vending machine in an unapproved location shall subject the
license for said machine to revocation by the president.
Any premises where the public is generally not permitted and where vending
machines are strictly for the use of employees of the business located at such
premises, shall be exempt from the requirements of this section. (Ord. 2006-28,
9-21-2006)
CHAPTER 15
GARBAGE, REFUSE, RECYCLING AND YARD WASTE
SECTION:
4-15-1: Compliance With Provisions
4-15-2: Definitions
4-15-3: Receptacles
4-15-4: Collection By Village; Residential Units; Location Of Receptacles And
Materials
4-15-5: Residential Developments Of Less Than Three Dwelling Units
4-15-6: Multi-Family Residential Locations Of Three Or More Units
4-15-7: Collection By Village; Public Receptacles
4-15-8: Prohibited Acts And Practices
4-15-9: Garbage And Refuse Rates; Collection Fees And Billing
4-15-10: Collection; Special Pick Ups
4-15-11: Storage And Removal From Businesses
4-15-12: Scavengers, Catch Basin Cleaners
4-15-13: Composting; Intent
4-15-14: Penalty
4-15-15: Severability
4-15-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Compliance with this chapter is required under the public health and safety
regulations of the village. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ADMINISTRATOR: For purposes pertaining to the services, the storage and
collection of the materials described herein, and the containers/carts,
including the replacement and repair thereof, used for the storage and
collection of said described materials, and the receipt and management of
residents' concerns pertaining to the services herein described, shall mean the
superintendent of streets and alleys or his designee who is authorized to
administer this chapter; provided, however, for purposes pertaining to general
administrative and collection matters shall mean village comptroller or his
designee authorized to administer this chapter.
ASHES: Residue from fire used for cooking and for heating buildings.
COMMERCIAL REFUSE AND WASTE: Municipal solid waste generated from or by a
business or a commercial business enterprise.
CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL: Wastes from home construction, remodeling and repair.
DEMOLITION MATERIAL: Wastes resulting from the destruction or demolition of
structures or buildings and including, but not limited to, materials such as
concrete blocks, broken concrete, plaster, wire and wood lath, timbers and wood
building products and other similar nonputrescible materials.
ELECTRONIC RECYCLABLES: The following electronic products shall be deemed
recyclable: televisions, monitors, printers, computers (laptop, notebook,
netbook, tablet, desktop), electronic keyboards, facsimile machines,
videocassette recorders, portable digital music players, digital video disk
players, video game consoles, small scale servers, scanners, electronic mice,
digital converter boxes, cable receivers, satellite receivers, digital video
disk recorders, computer cable, servers, hard drives, mobile phones, portable
digital assistant-PDA, zip drives, iPods and MP3 players, cellular phones and
batteries, telephones, phone systems, answering machines, copy machines,
pagers, postage machines, electronic typewriters, overhead projectors, laptop
batteries, mainframes, modems, terminals, network switches/routers, tape
drives, CD-ROM drives, floppy disk drives, plotters, hair dryers, circuit
breaker boxes, power tools, electronic motors, wire, toasters, coffeemakers (no
glass), blenders, mixers, DVD players, stereo equipment, joysticks, cameras,
camcorders, software, disks, tapes, remote controls.
GARBAGE: Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, including, but not limited to, plastic, papers and glass
products that are not included in the village recycling program; wastes from
the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INITIAL VILLAGE PICK UP DATE FOR RESIDENTIAL LOCATIONS CONSISTING OF MULTI-
FAMILY LOCATIONS OF THREE OR MORE UNITS: The first date that the village begins
to collect waste following the expiration, avoidance or cancellation of a prior
contract, for residential locations which consist of multi-family locations of
three (3) or more units, governing the disposal of waste. For the purpose of
this definition, "current contract" shall mean the contract in effect on the
date of the passage hereof. No multi- family residential unit owner shall
extend or allow the extension of any such contract by any means including, but
not limited to, renewal, automatic renewal or option so as to delay the initial
village pick up from residential locations consisting of multi- family
locations of three (3) or more units.
LANDSCAPE WASTE OR YARD WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery
cuttings, leaves, tree limbs, and other material accumulated as the result of
the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees.
LARGE VOLUMES OF CONSTRUCTION, DEMOLITION, REMODELING, REPAIR, AND RESIDENTIAL
HOUSEHOLD CLEANUP DEBRIS: Includes, without limitation, drywall, plaster wall
debris, brick, concrete, floor covering materials, wood, tiles, plumbing
fixtures, all forms of general construction, remodeling, repair debris, and
debris resulting from physical damage to property or general residential
cleanups, all of which shall be collected in general commercial collection
boxes ranging in size from twelve (12) cubic yards to thirty (30) cubic yards.
LIGHT RUBBISH: Any inorganic refuse, paper or other items not consisting of
recyclables or yard waste.
MULTI-FAMILY LOCATIONS OF THREE OR MORE UNITS: All condominiums, apartments and
other multi-family developments or locations which contain three (3) or more
residential dwelling units.
MUNICIPAL WASTE OR GARBAGE: All garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office
waste, and other material resulting from the operation of residential,
municipal or multi-family establishments and from community activities which
are not defined as recyclable or landscape waste.
PREPAID VILLAGE OF RIVER GROVE UNIVERSAL SOLID WASTE TAG: A tag used for each
additional item set out for collection that is outside the approved wheeled
refuse cart provided to each residence or any additional wheeled cart rented by
the village or its disposal contractor to a resident for the collection,
storage and disposal of municipal solid waste. Prepaid village of River Grove
universal solid waste tags shall be placed through the handle of each approved
additional refuse container or affixed to each bulk or large item set out for
collection. Prepaid village of River Grove universal solid waste tags shall be
made available at no less than four (4) strategically located convenient access
locations and the village hall.
PUTRESCIBLE WASTE: Solid waste that contains organic matter capable of being
decomposed by microorganisms and of such a character and proportion as to cause
obnoxious odors and to be capable of attracting or providing food for birds or
animals.
RECYCLABLES/RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Aluminum food and beverage containers (food
residue removed/rinsed), steel/bimetal food and beverage containers (food
residue removed/rinsed), empty paint containers and other tin and bimetal
containers (no liquids), newsprint, magazines, catalogs, phone books, office,
computer and notebook paper, junk mail and envelopes, all corrugated cardboard
containers broken down into two foot by two foot (2'x2') length and width
proportions, chipboard (cereal/tissue/food boxes, and kraft paper), glass food
and beverage containers - clear, amber, and green (food residue/liquid
removed), plastics PETE #1 (soft drink, liquor bottles, food containers), and
HDPE #2 (milk, juice, water containers, laundry detergent, bleach bottles)
rinsed, food residue/liquid removed, shall be collected by the village or its
disposal contractor on the designated collection day provided said recyclables
are placed in a village of River Grove recycling container provided each
residence or other approved containers for recyclables as described herein.
REFUSE: All noncommercial municipal solid waste (MSW) or household waste
generated at the dwelling being served to include household and kitchen wastes,
such as discarded food or food residues and paper necessarily used for wrapping
same, containers and packaging, aluminum/tin cans, bottles, books, newspapers,
boxes and cartons, household debris, durable goods, nondurable goods, clothes,
discards, etc., generated; provided that all such materials are of a size to
permit them to be placed in the village program provided refuse cart with the
refuse contained within the cart and the lid shut tightly closed or in an
approved waste container designed for the storage and collection of refuse not
exceeding thirty three (33) gallons' capacity nor weighing more than fifty (50)
pounds in weight when full; furniture, appliances (in accordance with law) to
include, but not be limited to, ranges, microwaves, refrigerators, dishwashers,
washing machines, dryers, room air conditioners, freezers, hot water tanks,
etc., provided that each additional container and each additional large or bulk
item set outside the village program provided refuse cart for pick up is done
so on the designated collection day with one prepaid village of River Grove
universal solid waste tag placed through the handle of each such additional
waste container or affixed to each large item set out; amounts of sod, earth,
and rocks, provided the last three (3) items listed are put in approved
containers not exceeding thirty three (33) gallons' capacity/fifty (50) pounds
in weight each when full and placed out for pick up on the designated
collection day with one prepaid village of River Grove universal solid waste
tag placed through the handle of the additional waste container set out; and
"do it yourself" home remodeling and repair construction materials provided
such materials are placed in approved containers not weighing over fifty (50)
pounds per container with one prepaid village of River Grove universal solid
waste tag placed through the handle of each approved container or if the
material is bundled the material does not exceed four feet (4') in length nor
weigh more than fifty (50) pounds per bundle with one prepaid village of River
Grove universal solid waste tag affixed to each bundle set out.
RESIDENTIAL LOCATIONS: All single-family homes, two-family developments and
multi-family developments of three (3) or more dwelling units in size,
including townhomes, duplexes, two-flats, three-flats, four-flats, and the
residential uses defined in section
6-16-3 of this code but specifically excluding dwelling units located in multi-
story buildings above the ground floor of office or commercial uses
(hereinafter referred to as "mixed use residential-commercial locations").
STOP: For the purpose of defining the extent of the collection service to be
rendered, and of determining the amount of materials collected (refuse, yard
waste, recyclable), each residential location unit shall be considered a
"stop".
YARD WASTE MATERIAL (Also Known As LANDSCAPE WASTE): Grass, garden clippings,
branch and tree trimmings, shrubbery and leaves generated as the result of the
care and maintenance of the dwelling being served and shall be collected by the
village or its disposal contractor providing all such materials are placed in
separate closed "kraft" paper bags or conventional waste containers (not in
plastic bags) clearly marked as containing "yard waste only" or with an "X" or
placed in bundles not over four feet (4') in length, with branches no greater
than four inches (4") in diameter, with said bundles not weighing more than
sixty (60) pounds not commingled with refuse, recyclables or other waste
material and not exceeding thirty three (33) gallons' capacity/fifty (50)
pounds in weight. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-3: RECEPTACLES:
   (A)   It is the duty of every owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any
building, structure or dwelling unit where people reside, board or lodge or
where food is prepared or served, to furnish and at all times maintain in good
order and repair, separate and approved receptacles for garbage, recyclables
and yard waste. Intermixing of said items is prohibited.
   (B)   With respect to electronic recyclables, it is the duty of every owner,
agent, tenant or occupant of any building or dwelling unit to dispose of all
electronic devices identified under this chapter as recyclable in the village
provided receptacle(s) for these electronic items, which shall be maintained at
8664 West Grand Avenue, River Grove, and such other locations as approved by
the corporate authorities. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-4: COLLECTION BY VILLAGE; RESIDENTIAL UNITS; LOCATION OF RECEPTACLES AND
MATERIALS:
   (A)   Placement Of Containers For Collection: Single-family residents and
residential locations of less than three (3) dwelling units shall place garbage
and trash containers at the edge of the alley or on the parkway between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of the day preceding collection until seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. of the day of collection, and all such containers should be
set out no later than six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. of the day of collection.
Garbage and trash containers of residential locations consisting of three (3)
or more units shall be placed as directed by the village or its disposal
company.
   (B)   Containers Complying With Specifications: Only containers complying
with the specifications for garbage and municipal refuse, landscape waste and
recyclable materials respectively may be utilized by any residential location
or development.
   (C)   Receptacle Design: All residential unit waste containers must close
fully to form a watertight seal. No refuse may protrude above the rim of any
receptacle. Residents must utilize an additional waste container and attach any
required solid waste sticker to said garbage receptacle before the container
will be collected.
   (D)   Location Of Containers: All containers for garbage, ashes and
household rubbish shall be stored outside the residence or other building in an
accessible place and at ground level on the owner's private property. No
container used for the storage, collection and removal of garbage or other
refuse shall be placed in a thoroughfare or in a manner which constitutes a
nuisance to adjacent property or the occupants thereof or to the public in
general. All receptacles and materials to be collected or disposed of from a
single-family residence shall be located upon the particular property or upon
the parkway immediately adjacent thereto so as not to cause encroachment or
inconvenience to a neighboring property or a public way. Receptacles shall be
secured and maintained in such manner that their contents will not be removed
or scattered by winds or animals. All containers for the deposit of garbage,
refuse, yard waste and recyclables shall be located in the rear yard area only.
   (E)   Electronic Recyclables: All residents shall deposit electronic
recyclables in the proper receptacles for the collection of electronic
recyclables and waste at 8664 West Grand Avenue and such other locations as
approved and directed by the village. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-5: RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS OF LESS THAN THREE DWELLING UNITS:
   (A)   Single-Family Residential And Residential Locations Of Less Than Three
Units:
      1.   Garbage/Solid Waste Containers: These residential locations shall
utilize one or more of the village approved ninety six (96) gallon solid waste
containers for the disposal of municipal waste within the village. The
containers shall be:
         (a) Of durable plastic material;
         (b) Of waterproof construction;
         (c) Equipped with a watertight fitting cover and with handles suitable
for mobility by one person;
         (d) Of a capacity of no more than ninety six (96) gallons.
      2.   Additional Waste: If any of these residential locations has
additional waste, which exceeds the maximum capacity of the ninety six (96)
gallon solid waste container, thirty three (33) gallon containers may be used
and placed out for collection provided that the residential location attaches
an additional solid waste sticker to said garbage receptacle. The additional
containers shall be watertight with a close fitting cover. Such container shall
be provided with suitable handles and shall weigh no more than fifty (50)
pounds when full.
   (B)   Recyclables: Recycling receptacles shall be rigid, reusable, clearly
marked "RECYCLABLES" and approved by the village. Residential unit recyclable
materials shall be placed in one or more of the village approved thirty five
(35) gallon solid waste recycling containers. Additional materials, which do
not fit into the designated recycling containers, may be placed directly
adjacent to a filled container in village approved recycling bins.
   (C)   Yard Waste: Yard wastes shall be placed in kraft paper biodegradeable
bags no smaller than twenty (20) gallons and no larger than thirty three (33)
gallons or in a reusable container having a capacity of not more than thirty
three (33) gallons, which must be marked, on its sides, with a twelve inch
(12") red "X". Bags and containers shall not weigh more than fifty (50) pounds
when full and must be used for grass clippings, leaves, weeds and garden waste
materials approved by the village.
   (D)   Bulky Landscape Waste/Refuse: Loose materials shall be placed in
containers or bundles and tied for disposal. The containers or any item shall
weigh no more than fifty (50) pounds nor be in excess of four feet (4') in
length. Brush, branches and other bulky landscape waste shall be three inches
(3") or less in diameter and securely tied into bundles.
   (E)   Routes, Schedules, Waste Limitations: Garbage, recyclables, refuse and
yard waste from single-family residences and multi- family residential
locations having less than three (3) dwelling units shall be collected as
provided for in the contract from time to time existing between the village and
its disposal company. The amount of garbage, refuse and recyclables removed
weekly from any residential location of less than three (3) dwelling units may
be fixed by the contract from time to time existing between the village and its
disposal company.
   (F)   Construction/Demolition Material: Wastes that result from the work of
a private contractor on a resident's property will not be removed by the
village, its departments or its disposal contractor. It is the responsibility
of the private contractor to remove such waste. Such waste that results from
the personal labor of a resident at the residential location, unless otherwise
prohibited, shall be disposed of as removable refuse if otherwise in compliance
with this chapter.
   (G)   Electronic Recyclable Materials And Devices: All recyclable electronic
materials and devices shall be placed in the village provided collection
receptacle by the owner or possessor of such property. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-
2015)
4-15-6: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOCATIONS OF THREE OR MORE UNITS:
It is the duty of every owner, agent, manager, tenant or occupant of all multi-
family residential locations containing three (3) or more units to make
provision for the collection and disposal of the following items from such
locations by the village or its disposal contractor:
   (A)   Multi-Family Residential Locations Of Three Or More Units Garbage And
Municipal Waste Containers:
      1.   Containers For Waste Disposal: Multi-family residential locations of
three (3) units or more shall utilize village approved containers for the
disposal of municipal waste within the village.
      2.   Container Design: The containers for municipal waste or garbage
refuse of multi-family residential locations of three (3) units or more shall
be:
         (a) Of durable material;
         (b) Of waterproof construction;
         (c) Equipped with a cover and with an approved means of collection.
   (B)   Landscape Waste: Multi-family residential locations of three (3) or
more units must arrange for the removal and disposal of their own landscape
waste and such waste shall not be part of the village landscape waste program.
   (C)   Landscape Waste Prior To Removal: Landscape waste of multi- family
residential locations of three (3) or more units must be kept orderly and
contained prior to removal and disposal.
   (D)   Recyclable Materials: Multi-family residential locations of three (3)
or more units must arrange for the removal of their own recyclable materials
and shall not be part of the village recyclable program. However, if a multi-
family residential location of three (3) or more units decides to institute a
recyclable program, the contractor providing such a program shall ensure that
recyclable material be placed in solid waste recycling containers provided by
contractor and approved by the village for such residential locations.
   (E)   Containers Complying With Specifications: Only containers complying
with the above specifications for garbage and municipal waste, landscape waste
and recyclable materials respectively may be utilized by any multi-family
location of three (3) or more units.
   (F)   Container Capacity: The container for each multi-family residential
location of three (3) or more units shall be properly sized to meet the
municipal waste and garbage needs for each particular multi-family residential
location of three (3) or more units. Lids on all containers must close fully.
No refuse may protrude above the rim of any receptacle. If the refuse is
protruding above the rim of the container, the owner or manager of the multi-
family residential location of three (3) or more units shall be obligated to
contact the disposal contractor to collect the municipal waste in the village.
The owner of the multi-family residential locations of three (3) or more units
shall also ensure that such garbage is orderly and contained until such time as
the disposal contractor completes the pick up. All containers shall be secured
and maintained in such manner that their contents will not be removed or
scattered by winds or animals.
   (G)   Location Of Containers: All containers for garbage, ashes and
household rubbish shall be stored outside of the multi-family residential
location of three (3) or more units or other building in an accessible place
and at ground level on the private property of the multi-family residential
locations. No container used for the storage, collection and removal of garbage
or other refuse shall be placed in a thoroughfare or in a manner which
constitutes a nuisance to adjacent property or the occupants thereof or to the
public in general.
   (H)   Initial Village Pick Up Date: Initial village pick up date for multi-
family residential locations of three (3) units or more shall occur within
ninety (90) days of the passage of the ordinance approving and adopting this
chapter. No resident shall extend or allow the extension of any existing
contract for the collection of waste, by any means including, but not limited
to, renewal, automatic renewal or option so as to delay the initial village
pick up date from multi-family residential locations of three (3) units or
more. All existing contracts for the removal of waste from multi-family
residential locations of three (3) units or more shall be terminated and/or
canceled within ninety (90) days of the passage of this chapter. Upon the
effective date hereof, the village shall issue written notice of the adoption
and passage hereof to all licensed haulers and disposal companies and known
owners, management companies and/or taxpayers of record of all residential
locations of three (3) dwelling units or more and advising them of the need to
comply with this chapter within ninety (90) days of its passage and approval.
(Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-7: COLLECTION BY VILLAGE; PUBLIC RECEPTACLES:
Village waste containers provided for public use in commercial areas shall be
supplied and maintained by the village, which containers shall not exceed
thirty two (32) gallons in capacity and be made of material as approved by the
village. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND PRACTICES:
   (A)   Uncollectible Materials: It is unlawful and declared to be a public
nuisance for a resident or business to deposit any of the following listed
uncollectible materials in any garbage container or receptacle that is to be
collected during regularly scheduled collections of residential garbage,
recyclables, and yard waste, or the collection of such waste at a commercial
property. Every person, whether acting as an owner, employee of the owner, or
whether acting as a mere agent or independent contractor for the owner, who
violates this provision shall be punished by a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) but not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
which a violation occurs.
      1.   Mixed garbage, refuse, recyclables, electronic recyclables, or yard
waste.
      2.   Tree limbs and logs with a trunk diameter in excess of four inches
(4").
      3.   Hazardous materials, such as, but not limited to, chemicals,
solvents, paints or petroleum based products.
      4.   Tires and automobile parts.
      5.   Any construction or demolition material or debris that results from
work performed by a private contractor, professional service, or resident, but
excluding a resident's materials accumulated during work performed on the
resident's primary residence.
      6.   Electronic recyclables owned or possessed by any resident or
business within the village of River Grove.
   (B)   Theft Of Recyclables And Electronic Recyclables: It is unlawful for
any person: 1) who is not the owner or lawful occupant of a premises to remove
or cause the removal of any recyclables from a receptacle located on such
premises or to remove, damage or destroy such receptacle, unless authorized by
the village; or 2) to remove or cause the removal of any electronic recyclables
from a receptacle established and maintained by the village for the collection
and proper disposal of electronic devices and materials, unless authorized by
the village.
   (C)   Burning Of Materials: The burning of any garbage, refuse, leaves,
rubbish or any other substance or material of any kind or character within the
village is prohibited.
   (D)   Receptacles And Refuse On Village Parkways: It is unlawful and
declared to be a public nuisance to deposit receptacles, refuse, construction
or demolition material upon the village parkway more than twelve (12) hours in
advance of a regularly scheduled collection or to permit such receptacles to
remain thereon for a period in excess of twelve (12) hours after collection.
   (E)   Fly Dumping Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person: 1) who is
not a resident of the village or who does not own, operate or maintain a
business in the village to deposit, leave or dump any garbage, yard waste or
other debris in, on or upon any public alley, street or other publicly owned
property in the village; or 2) who is a resident of the village or who owns,
operates or maintains a business in the village to deposit, leave or dump any
garbage, yard waste or other debris in or upon any public alley, street or
other publicly owned property in the village, except in such areas adjacent to
property owned or occupied by said person and then only at the times and in the
receptacles as authorized by the village.
   (F)   Collection Without Permit: To collect and dispose of refuse for hire
over the streets of the village without a permit is declared to be a nuisance.
Such business shall be carried on under the conditions of this chapter.
   (G)   Refuse Accumulation:
      1.   Private Property: The owner of any premises in the village shall
remove from the premises or otherwise dispose of all garbage, ashes, tin cans,
metalware, broken glass, crockery, stoneware and all refuse and rubbish of
every description whatsoever. Any loose accumulation of such refuse is
prohibited.
      2.   Public Ways: No person shall leave or suffer to be left, any refuse
or yard wastes in or upon any street, alley, parkway or other public place or
upon any vacant or unimproved lot or parcel of land in the village. (Ord. 2015-
17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-9: GARBAGE AND REFUSE RATES; COLLECTION FEES AND BILLING:
   (A)   Single-Family And Two-Dwelling Unit Residential Locations: Each
single-family residence and multi-family residential location with less than
three (3) dwelling units shall be billed by the village at the current rate
monthly for garbage and refuse service. Such charges shall be reflected on the
water bill sent to each premises and shall be paid together with the water
bill. All charges are due and payable unless and until the owner of the
premises notifies the village in writing to discontinue water and garbage and
refuse service, not less than seven (7) days prior to the date on which such
disconnection shall be effective.
   (B)   Residential Locations With Three Or More Dwelling Units: Each multi-
family residential location with three (3) or more dwelling units shall be
billed by the disposal contractor at the current rate monthly for garbage and
refuse service. All charges are due and payable unless and until the owner of
the premises notifies the village and its disposal contractor in writing to
discontinue garbage and refuse service, not less than thirty (30) days prior to
the date on which such disconnection shall be effective.
   (C)   Collection Fees:
      1.   The village board shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses for the collection of waste and recyclables, stickers for excess
containers of waste, and penalties for failure to comply with these provisions.
      2.   The approved schedule of fees shall be filed and posted in the
village hall, and may be altered or amended by the village board from time to
time.
      3.   For the purpose of defraying the cost of collecting containers of
garbage and recyclables from either the parkway or the alley of residence
locations within the village, a charge per month for all residential locations'
municipal waste disposal shall be levied and billed against each single-family
dwelling, and for each residential location consisting of a multi-family
structure of two (2) or more dwelling units. The charges shall be totaled and
billed in accordance with subsections (A) and (B) of this section and the
resulting total bill shall be paid as a unit and shall not be divisible. All
accounts not paid by the stated due date shall be subject to a five percent
(5%) late payment penalty.
      4.   For the purpose of defraying the cost of collecting any container of
garbage in excess of the one 96-gallon solid waste container and one 35-gallon
solid waste recycling container covered in the monthly bill, an owner, tenant
or occupant of any single-family structure or multi-family residential location
with less than three (3) dwelling units shall purchase a solid waste tag from
the village and attach it to each container in order for each container to be
collected. The charge for each solid waste tag shall be posted in the village
hall and may be altered or amended by the village board from time to time.
(Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-10: COLLECTION; SPECIAL PICK UPS:
   (A)   Special Pick Ups For Single-Family And Multi-Family Locations With
Less Than Three Units: Miscellaneous waste and bulk items such as discarded
furniture, household appliances (white goods), water tanks (capable of being
handled by 1 person), and trash items not exceeding fifty (50) pounds in weight
shall be picked up by the village or its disposal contractor. For the purpose
of defraying the cost of collecting such items, the owner or occupant shall
purchase waste tags from the village and attach one to each item to be
collected. The charge for each tag shall be posted in the village hall and may
be altered or amended by the village board from time to time. Other special
pick ups for additional items or items not so designated above shall be
provided upon terms agreed to between the resident and the village or its
disposal contractor.
   (B)   Special Pick Ups For Multi-Family Residential Locations Of Three Or
More Units: There may be unlimited pick ups under the disposal program for
multi-family residential locations of three (3) or more units; provided,
however, the owner, manager, and tenants of the multi-family residential
location of three (3) or more units shall be obligated to call the village
disposal contractor when additional pick ups are necessary. The cost for such
pick ups shall be the sole responsibility of the owner, manager, or tenants of
the multi-family residential location of three (3) or more units, and such
costs shall be billed and collected by the village's disposal contractor. (Ord.
2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-11: STORAGE AND REMOVAL FROM BUSINESSES:
   (A)   Nonresidential Buildings: Every person or entity occupying, operating
or controlling any building or portion thereof where persons do not reside,
board or lodge, shall provide a separate container for garbage which shall be
plainly marked in a conspicuous place "Not For Domestic Use". Such person or
entity shall have the contents of the container removed from the premises at
his or her own expense at such time and in such manner as the health or
building department may direct. In the buildings described herein, garbage
containers of the kind in domestic use are prohibited.
   (B)   Hotels And Restaurants: Every person or entity owning or controlling
any hotel, restaurant, cafe or other premises where more than twenty (20)
guests or boarders are fed daily, shall cause all garbage to be placed in a
proper metallic container which shall be practically airtight and watertight
and shall cause all substances deposited in such containers to be removed from
the premises as frequently as the health department shall direct. The removal
and disposition of such substances shall be done by such person or entity at
his, her or its own expense. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-12: SCAVENGERS, CATCH BASIN CLEANERS:
   (A)   Village May Contract For Service: The village may contract with one or
more private scavengers for the collection of garbage, ashes and rubbish.
   (B)   License Required, Fee: No person may operate as a waste disposal firm
or scavenger for hire, or otherwise shall remove waste from any premises in the
village; or transport waste through the streets, alleys or public ways for the
village; or dump, incinerate, or in any other manner dispose of waste
originating in the limits of the village; or contract for, or permit himself to
be employed or engaged for any such removal, transportation or disposal,
without first having secured a license for performing such waste disposal
service or scavenger service from the village clerk, evidencing the payment to
the village of the license fee provided for in this code. No more than one
business license shall be available for municipal waste, recycling waste and
landscape waste removal for all single-family and multi-family residential
locations with two (2) or more dwelling units. This limitation on licenses
shall not apply to roll-off dumpsters for purposes of construction, remodeling,
concrete, and other refuse needs of the community not mentioned herein; and the
restrictions herein shall not apply to those individuals commonly referred to
as junkers, scrappers or scavengers who collect municipal or recycling waste
without compensation of any kind.
   (C)   Application For License, Bond: Each application shall be accompanied
by a bond in the sum as required under this code, conditioned on compliance
with this code.
   (D)   Investigation, Inspection:
      1.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon the receipt of any application for
a license, the health officer shall investigate the character of the applicant.
No license shall be issued to any person who is not a person of good character.
      2.   Inspection Of Vehicle: The health officer shall inspect or cause to
be inspected all vehicles intended to be used by the applicant and shall not
approve the issuance of a license unless these vehicles comply with the
provisions of this code.
   (E)   Contractor Personnel:
      1.   A contractor shall assign a qualified person or persons to be in
charge of its operations in the village and shall give the name(s) to the
village.
      2.   Each employee driving a vehicle shall, at all times, carry a valid
Illinois operator's license for the type of vehicle the individual is
operating.
      3.   A contractor shall prohibit the use of alcohol, drugs, or the use of
a controlled substance, except by doctor's prescription, by its operators and/
or helpers while on duty in the course of performing duties.
      4.   If an employee is deemed to be unfit or unsuitable to perform the
services as a result of intoxication, drug use, or incompetence, or the
employee's conduct is deemed to be abusive and/or obnoxious in nature, by the
village, then upon written notice from the village, the contractor shall remove
the employee from work within the village.
      5.   No person shall be denied employment by a contractor for reasons of
race, creed, sex, national origin, or other unlawful basis.
      6.   A contractor shall require all employees to perform services in a
professional, workmanlike manner. Employees will start the workday neat/clean
in appearance; and work in an orderly and courteous manner.
   (F)   Compliance With Laws: A contractor shall conduct operations in
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances and
regulations.
   (G)   Insurance Indemnity And Hold Harmless: A contractor shall maintain all
insurance coverage required by law. In addition, a contractor shall carry, at
its own expense, at least the following insurance coverage:
      1.   General Liability:
         (a) Bodily injury, with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence/two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate;
         (b) Property damage, with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence/two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate.
      2.   Automotive Liability:
         (a) Bodily injury, with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence/two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate;
         (b) Property damage, with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence/two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate.
This insurance must include nonowned, hired, leased, or rented vehicles, as
well as owned vehicles.
         An excess umbrella liability shall be provided with minimum limits of
four million dollars ($4,000,000.00) per occurrence and in the aggregate.
   (H)   Conditions Of License:
      1.   Sanitary Vehicles: All vehicles used for waste disposal or scavenger
service must be kept in a sanitary condition. The wagon box must be waterproof,
and each vehicle must be equipped with tight covers.
      2.   Obey Traffic Regulations: All persons doing business as scavengers
or catch basin cleaners in the village must fully comply with all ordinances
relating to traffic or to the movement of vehicles on the streets.
      3.   Waste Deposits On Premises: Care must be taken when removing any
garbage or offal that no waste material is permitted to fall or remain on any
premises.
      4.   Employees: It is unlawful to employ any person as a driver on any
vehicle or as helper therefor who is not a person of good character. (Ord.
2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-13: COMPOSTING; INTENT:
The intent and purpose of this section is to promote the recycling of yard
wastes through composting and to establish minimum standards for proper compost
maintenance.
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
    COMPOSTABLE MATERIAL: Grass, garden clippings, brush, leaves, tree
clippings and other materials accumulated as a result of maintenance of
gardens, lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees.
   COMPOSTING: The controlled biological reduction of organic wastes to humus.
   (B)   Maintenance: All compost piles shall be maintained using approved
composting procedures that comply with the following requirements:
      1.   All compost piles shall be enclosed in a freestanding compost bin.
      2.   Compostable materials shall be placed in a compost pile in such
manner that they will not become windblown.
      3.   The depositing of garbage, pet wastes, meat scraps or other
materials that may attract animals or vermin to the compost pile or which may
produce an obnoxious odor is prohibited. Compost piles shall be kept covered
except while turning.
      4.   The presence of rodents in or near a compost pile shall cause health
department regulation and enforcement under this code.
   (C)   Location: A compost pile shall not be located less than twenty five
feet (25') from any neighboring dwelling unit; less than three feet (3') from
any rear or side lot line; or within any required front yard as defined in the
village zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Construction: A compost bin shall not exceed five feet (5') in length
and width and height. It shall be made of woven galvanized wire, block, brick
or a prefabricated wooden bin, with sufficient openings to allow adequate air
circulation.
   (E)   Owner Responsibility: Every owner or operator shall be responsible for
maintaining all property under his or her control in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-14: PENALTY:
   (A)   Citations: Any owner or occupant of the premises accused of violating
any provision of this chapter regarding garbage and rubbish storage and removal
as contained in this chapter shall be issued a written warning to correct the
violation within a specified number of days of the date of the warning, or
shall be issued a notice of code violation requiring a court appearance by the
violator within thirty (30) days. Issuance of a warning or a notice of code
violation is entirely within the discretion of the health inspector, building
inspector, public works director or their designee(s).
   (B)   Fines: Every person, whether acting as an owner, employee of the
owner, or whether acting as a mere agent or independent contractor for the
owner, who violates this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) but not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), unless otherwise provided for under this code. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation occurs. (Ord.
2015-17, 12-17-2015)
4-15-15: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 2015-17, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 16
PRIVATE SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
4-16-1: Definitions
4-16-2: License Required
4-16-3: Application for License
4-16-4: Investigation
4-16-5: Revocation
4-16-6: License Period; Fee
4-16-7: License to be Displayed
4-16-8: Owner Servicing Own Premises
4-16-9: Licensee to Provide Containers
4-16-10: Hours
4-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
GARBAGE: means any refuse products or materials including but not limited to
the following: putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, sale or consumption of food; animal excretion;
glass or metal containers, products or objects discarded as no longer usable;
paper, wood, and cardboard waste; uprooted weeds, grass clippings, leaves and
the like; ashes and cinders; discarded furniture or clothing; and dead animals.
PRIVATE SCAVENGER: means any person engaged in the removal and disposal of
garbage from hotels, restaurants, cafes, boarding house, apartment houses and
other places not otherwise provided for by the Village.
PERSON: means individual, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity.
4-16-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in or conduct the business of private scavenger without
first having obtained a license so to do.
4-16-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person who desires a license as required by this Chapter shall make
application therefor in writing to the Clerk, setting forth in said application
the name and address of the applicant, the names and addresses of employees of
the applicant who shall conduct the business of the applicant, the days on
which applicant shall conduct his business, the number, type and capacity of
vehicles to be used, and the names of three (3) other municipalities serviced
by the applicant.
4-16-4: INVESTIGATION:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license, and prior to the issuance of
a license, the Clerk shall submit said application to the Streets and Alleys
Committee and the Building Commissioner for investigation and approval. Upon
completion of said investigation, a report shall be submitted to the Board of
Trustees who shall thereupon grant or refuse such license. The Clerk may, in
the event that a person re-applies for a license in consecutive periods without
any license period intervening in which a license is not issued, accept the
results of the investigation made at the time of the original application in
lieu of a new investigation.
4-16-5: REVOCATION:
Any license issued shall be subject to revocation for cause by the Board of
Trustees at any time, and if revoked, no part of the license fee paid therefor
shall be refunded.
4-16-6: LICENSE PERIOD; FEE:
Licenses required by this Chapter shall be issued for the period of one year,
and the fee therefor shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum for each vehicle
of the applicant to be operated in this Village.
4-16-7: LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED:
Applicants licensed shall receive a license for each vehicle to be operated in
this Village, which said license shall be conspicuously displayed on the front
of the vehicle for which it has been issued.
4-16-8: OWNER SERVICING OWN PREMISES:
An owner may, without a license, remove and dispose of garbage from his own
premises with the permission of the Board of Trustees. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
4-16-9: LICENSEE TO PROVIDE CONTAINERS:
Licensees shall provide for each premises serviced one or more containers, with
covers, of a type approved by the Corporate Authorities, for the deposit of
garbage and other matter to be removed by such licensees. (Ord. 1968-5; 4-11-
68)
4-16-10: HOURS:
It is unlawful for a licensee to conduct his business in the Village before
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. local time. (Ord. 1970-17; 9-24-70)
CHAPTER 17
ICE DEALERS
SECTION:
4-17-1: License Required
4-17-2: Weighing Ice
4-17-3: Quality of Ice
4-17-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, shall sell or offer for sale any ice without having first obtained a
license therefor as is herein provided. Applications for a license to do
business as an ice dealer shall be made to the Clerk, and shall be accompanied
by a payment of the fee required. The fee for a yearly license shall be fifteen
dollars ($15.00) and the fee for a daily license shall be one dollar and fifty
cents ($1.50). (4-20-50)
4-17-2: WEIGHING ICE:
Every person selling or offering ice for sale shall at the time of the delivery
of any ice sold weigh the quantity of the ice delivered; and for that purpose
each ice dealer shall have his wagon or vehicle from which delivery is made
equipped with a properly adjusted scale for weighing ice which shall be
inspected by any Village Police Officer.
All ice sold shall be sold by avoirdupois weight unless it is otherwise
specifically agreed upon between the buyer and seller.
4-17-3: QUALITY OF ICE:
No person shall sell or offer for sale any ice cut or taken from the DesPlaines
River, or any clayhole, pond or stagnant pool water, to be used, except for
cooling purposes; and any dealer in such ice shall so inform his customers of
the quality thereof; nor shall any one sell, offer or expose for sale, except
for cooling purposes as aforesaid, any impure ice or any ice which shall
contain filth or any other matter, substance or thing that will when melted
render the water impure or the use of the same unhealthful.
CHAPTER 18
VEHICLES CARRYING FOODS
SECTION:
4-18-1: License Required
4-18-2: Application for License
4-18-3: License Fee
4-18-4: Exemption
4-18-5: Regulation
4-18-6: Inspection
4-18-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any vehicle, including wagons
and motor vehicles and vehicles propelled by human power, for the storage or
the carrying of any meats, poultry, fish, butter, cheese, lard, vegetables,
bread or bakery products, or any other provisions intended for human
consumption, including beverages, for the purpose of delivering any such
foodstuffs to any place for use and consumption or for resale unless a license
for such vehicle is first secured and the provisions of this Chapter are fully
complied with.
4-18-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Clerk, upon forms
supplied by said Village, and shall state thereon the name and address of the
owner thereof, the name or names of the persons from whom such deliveries are
made, and the nature of the goods carried. Said Clerk shall issue such license,
and shall give to the Board of Trustees a list of all such licenses issued.
4-18-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for such license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) and shall be for
one year, and such fees shall be paid to the Clerk, who shall turn them over to
the Treasurer forthwith. All such licenses shall expire on the 30th day of
April following the date of issuance.
4-18-4: EXEMPTION:
No license fee shall be required for any vehicle used to deliver foodstuffs
from any establishment which is licensed and inspected as a food dealing
establishment in the Village; but all provisions of this Chapter shall be
complied with in connection with such vehicles other than that providing for
the payment of fees.
4-18-5: REGULATION:
All such vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall be
thoroughly cleaned each day they are so used. It shall be unlawful to permit
stale food, decaying matter or other waste material to accumulate in or on such
vehicle while it is so used.
If unwrapped foodstuffs are transported in any such vehicle, such goods shall
be carried in a portion of the vehicle which is screened and protected against
dust and insects.
4-18-6: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the President to make or cause to be made such
inspections as may be necessary to insure compliance with the provisions of
this Chapter. (6-24-43)
CHAPTER 19
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
4-19-1: Definition
4-19-2: Permit To Construct
4-19-3: Location
4-19-4: Recirculation Pools
4-19-5: Walk Areas
4-19-6: Fences
4-19-7: Steps Or Ladders
4-19-8: Water Supply
4-19-9: Inlets
4-19-10: Recirculation System And Appurtenances
4-19-11: Construction
4-19-12: Electrical Requirements
4-19-13: Operation And Maintenance
4-19-14: Inspection
4-19-15: Permit Fees
4-19-16: Hours
4-19-17: Penalty Clause
4-19-1: DEFINITION:
   (A)   Defined: "Private pool" shall mean any swimming pool or wading pool
over twenty four inches (24") in depth, or with a surface area exceeding two
hundred fifty (250) square feet either at a private residence intended only for
the use of the individual owner, his family and friends, or at a multiple-
family residence intended only for the use of the tenants of the building,
their families and friends. This does not include portable or temporary type of
pools of plastic, rubberized cloth or similar material installed above ground
level. (Ord. 1966-17, 8-18-1966)
   (B)   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all new and existing
private pools except where otherwise indicated herein. (Ord. 1964-16, 7-2-1964)
4-19-2: PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT:
   (A)   No person or organization shall proceed to construct a private
swimming pool or make major alterations at an existing private pool without
first having obtained a permit therefor, issued and signed by the building
commissioner, or his authorized representative, upon approval of the
application.
   (B)   All drawings and plans for the construction, installation, enlargement
or alteration of any private swimming pool and appurtenances shall first be
presented to the building commissioner for approval as to proper location,
construction and use.
   (C)   Application for a permit shall be in writing in the form prescribed by
the building commissioner. Such application shall contain such information as
shall be required by said building commissioner for a proper understanding of
the proposed work. (Ord. 1964-16, 7-2-1964)
4-19-3: LOCATION:
   (A)   Private swimming pools shall be permitted on any property occupied by
a single-family residence or a multiple-family dwelling. (Ord. 1964-16, 7-2-
1964)
   (B)   No portion of a private swimming pool shall be located at a distance
less than three feet (3') from any side or rear property line or building line.
(Ord. 2002-09, 7-11-2002)
   (C)   Pumps, filters and pool water disinfection equipment installations
shall be located at a distance not less than five feet (5') from any side
property line. Pools and appurtenant equipment shall not be permitted in the
side yard between dwellings.
   (D)   All private swimming pools shall comply with the regulations of the
River Grove zoning regulations.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to swimming pools of a
permanent nature which have been constructed prior to the effective date of
this chapter. (Ord. 1964-16, 7-2-1964)
4-19-4: RECIRCULATION POOLS:
All private swimming pools shall be of the recirculation type in which
circulation of the water is maintained through the pool by pumps, the water
drawn from the pool being clarified and disinfected before being returned to
the pool. (Ord. 1964-16, 7-2-1964)
4-19-5: WALK AREAS:
   (A)   Unobstructed walk areas not less than thirty six inches (36") wide
shall be provided to extend entirely around the pool. The walk area shall be
constructed of impervious material, and the surfaces shall be smooth and easily
cleaned and of nonslip construction. The slope of the walks shall have a pitch
of at least one-fourth inch (1/4") to the foot, designed so as to prevent back
drainage from entering the pool.
   (B)   A foot rinse unit shall be available for cleaning feet before entrance
onto pool walks. (Ord. 1964-16, 7-2-1964)
4-19-6: FENCES:
All private swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by a fence erected
along the periphery of the pool walks. All fence openings or points of entry
into pool area enclosure shall be equipped with gates. The fence and gates shah
be at least four feet six inches (4'6") in height above the walk grade level
and shall be constructed of a minimum number nine (9) gauge woven wire mesh
corrosion resistant material, or material approved by the Building Official
which meets the objective of visibility and safety. All gates shall be equipped
with self-closing and self-latching devices placed at the top of the gate and
made inaccessible to small children. All fence posts shall be decay or
corrosion resistant and shall be set in concrete bases.
4-19-7: STEPS OR LADDERS:
Two (2) or more means of egress in the form of steps or ladders shall be
provided for all private swimming pools. At least one such means of egress
shall be located on a side of the pool at both the deep end and shallow end of
the pool. Treads of steps and ladders shall be constructed of nonslip material
and at least two and one half inches (21/2") wide for their full length. Steps
and ladders shall have a handrail on both sides.
4-19-8: WATER SUPPLY:
   (A)   No source of water other than that secured from the Village of River
Grove water works distribution system shall be used in private swimming pools.
   (B)   The water supply when in the pool shall meet the following clarity
criterion; filters shall be capable of maintaining the clarity of the water to
permit the ready identification, through an eight foot (8') depth of water, of
a disc two inches (2") in diameter, which is divided into four (4) quadrants in
alternate colors or red and white.
4-19-9: INLETS:
   (A)   Private swimming pool water recirculation system inlet shall be
located so as to produce so far as possible uniform circulation of water
throughout the pool without the existence of dead spots and to carry pool
bottom deposits to the outlets, and shall discharge at a minimum of ten inches
(10") below the pool overflow level. A main outlet shall be placed at the
deepest point in the pool and fitted with a safe grating. No direct connection
shall be made to the sewer. A minimum of one recirculation system inlet shall
be provided for every six hundred fifteen square feet (615 sq. ft.) of surface
area of the pool.
   (B)   Pools shall be equipped with suitable facilities for adding make-up
water as needed. There shall be no physical connection between the water supply
line and the pool system. If the make-up water is added directly to the pool,
the outlet shall be at least six inches (6") above the upper rim of the pool.
If the make-up water line discharges to a surge or balancing tank, the point of
discharge shall be at least six inches (6") above the rim of the tank. If a
hose connection from a sill cock or other plumbing fixture is to be used for
supplying make-up water, then an approved vacuum breaker shall be installed
between the sill cock or control valve at the fixture and the hose connection.
The vacuum breaker shall be installed at a height not less than seven feet six
inches (7'6") above the floor, platform or ground upon which a person would
stand when operating the sill cock or control valve.
4-19-10: RECIRCULATION SYSTEM AND APPURTENANCES:
   (A)   Private swimming pools recirculation systems shall consist of pumping
equipment, hair and lint catchers, filters, together with the necessary pipe
connections to the pool inlets and outlets, facilities and pipe connections
necessary for backwashing filters, and facilities and equipment for
disinfecting the pool water.
   (B)   The recirculation system pump shall have sufficient capacity to
discharge the volume of water required for eighteen (18) hour turnover of the
pool against the maximum head in the recirculating system.
   (C)   The pump used for backwashing type filters shall have sufficient
capacity to provide a filter backwash rate of at least ten (10) gallons per
minute per square foot of filter area.
   (D)   A hair and lint catcher or strainer shall be installed on the suction
side of the circulation pump to prevent hair, lint and other extraneous matter
from reaching the pump and filters. Hair and lint catcher shall be so designed
that they can be easily dismantled for cleaning and inspection and shall be so
located as to be easily accessible for cleaning.
   (E)   Recirculating systems shall contain rapid pressure filters. Sufficient
filter area shall be provided to filter the entire contents of the pool in
eighteen (18) hours at the rate of not more than five (5) gallons per square
foot of filter area per minute. The filter backwashing facilities shall be
sufficient to backwash at a rate of ten (10) gallons per minute per square foot
of filter area. All backwash water and effluents shall be discharged to the
sewer through an indirect connection. Pressure filters shall be equipped with
readily accessible air relief valves, loss of head or pressure gauges on the
inlet and outlet pipes to determine the frequency of cleaning, and an access
head or hole large enough to permit inspection, maintenance and repair work.
Sight glasses that can be easily removed for cleaning shall be provided in the
effluent line from the filter units. Operating instruction shall be posted on
every filter system and all valves shall be properly designated with metal
tags, indicating purpose.
   (F)   Equipment shall be provided for the disinfection of all pool water.
Any disinfection method using materials other than chlorine compounds shall be
subject to the approval of the Health Official. Disinfection equipment
installed for the use of chlorine compounds shall have sufficient capacity to
maintain a free chlorine residual of five tenths (0.5) parts per million. The
disinfectant shall be introduced into the recirculation system ahead of the
filters.
   (G)   Gaseous chlorination systems shall not be made use of as a
disinfection method for pool water.
   (H)   A test kit with permanent color standards shall be provided at all
private pools and be used at frequent intervals to check on the adequacy of the
chlorine treatment.
4-19-11: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Wall Slopes: To a depth of five feet (5') from the top, the wall slope
shall not be more than one and one half feet (11/2') horizontal in five feet
(5') vertical.
   (B)   Floor Slopes: The slope of the floor in the shallow end shall not
exceed one foot (1') vertical to seven feet (7') horizontal. The transition
point between shallow and deep water shall not be less than four and one half
feet (41/2') deep and not more than five feet (5') deep.
4-19-12: ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   No overhead current carrying electrical conductors shall cross private
residential swimming pools, or be located within ten feet (10') of such pools.
   (B)   All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent to private
residential swimming pools, which might become electrically alive as a result
of contact with broken overhead conductors, or from any other cause, shall be
effectively grounded.
4-19-13: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   All private swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, and all equipment shall be maintained in a satisfactory operating
condition during periods the pool is in use.
   (B)   No private swimming pool shall be used, kept, maintained or operated
in the Village, if such use, keeping, maintaining or operating shall be the
occasion of any nuisance or shall be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health.
4-19-14: INSPECTION:
The Director of Health shall periodically inspect all private residential
swimming pools to determine whether or not the provisions of this Code
regarding health, sanitation and safety applicable thereto are being complied
with.
4-19-15: PERMIT FEES:
The fee for a permit for the erection or construction of a swimming pool shall
be twenty dollars ($20.00) for each five hundred square feet (500 sq. ft.) or
fraction thereof or surface area to be contained within the proposed pool as
determined by the plans and specifications submitted with the application for
permit.
4-19-16: HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit the use of a private
swimming pool between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M.
4-19-17: PENALTY CLAUSE:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not to
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 1964-16; 7-2-64)
CHAPTER 20
INTOXICATING COMPOUNDS
SECTION:
4-20-1: Use Prohibited; Exceptions
4-20-2: Sale Regulated
4-20-1: USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall inhale, breathe or drink any compound liquid or chemical
containing toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate,
methyl ethyl ketone, trichoroathane, isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone,
methly cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone, or any other substance for the
purpose of inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis,
irrational behavior, or in any manner change, distort or disturb the audio,
visual or mental processes. For the purpose of this Section, any such condition
so induced shall be deemed to be an intoxicated condition; provided however,
that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any person who inhales, breathes, or drinks such material or substance
pursuant to the direction of prescription of any doctor, physician, surgeon,
dentist or podiatrist authorized to so direct or prescribe.
   (B)   Any person who inhales, breathes, drinks or otherwise in any manner
uses any narcotic, dangerous drug, or other material or substance or
combination thereof, which material or substance or combination thereof is
defined by, and the use of which is prohibited or regulated by, any law of the
State of Illinois.
4-20-2: SALE REGULATED:
No person shall knowingly sell or offer for sale, deliver or give away to any
person under seventeen (17) years of age, unless upon the written order of
parent or guardian, any substances containing any of the following volatile
solvents, where the seller, offerer or deliverer knows or has reason to believe
that the substance will be used for the purpose of inducing symptoms of
intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational behavior, or in any
manner change, distort or disturb the audio, visual or mental processes:
Toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methyl
ethyl ketone, trichloroathane, isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl
cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone, or any other substance which will induce
symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational behavior,
or in any manner change, distort or disturb the audio, visual or mental
processes. (Ord. 1965-37; 12-16-65)
CHAPTER 21
FOOD SANITATION
SECTION:
4-21-1: Adoption Of Food Service Sanitation Code
4-21-1.1: Adoption Of Retail Food Store Sanitation Code
4-21-2: Permits
4-21-3: Inspection Of Food And Drink Service Establishments
4-21-4: Examination And Condemnation Of Food
4-21-5: Plan Review Of Future Construction
4-21-6: Procedure When Infection Is Suspected
4-21-7: Penalties
4-21-8: Food Service Establishments Outside Jurisdiction Of This Health
Authority
4-21-1: ADOPTION OF FOOD SERVICE SANITATION CODE:
The rules, regulations and requirements contained in the "Food Service
Sanitation Code" prepared, promulgated and published, in book form, by the
Illinois Department of Public Health, dated 1996, and as currently amended, is
hereby adopted by reference as the Food Service Sanitation Code of the Village
and is made a part hereof as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 1997-10, 10-16-
1997)
4-21-1.1: ADOPTION OF RETAIL FOOD STORE SANITATION CODE:
The rules, regulations and requirements contained in the "Retail Food Store
Sanitation Code" prepared, promulgated and published, in book form, by the
Illinois Department of Public Health, dated October 1992, and as currently
amended, is hereby adopted by reference as the Retail Food Store Sanitation
Code of the Village and is made a part hereof as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 1997-05, 6-19-1997)
4-21-2: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food or drink service
establishment within the Village who does not possess a valid permit issued to
him by the Health Authority. Only a person who complies with the requirements
of this Chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit. Permits
shall not be transferable from one person to another person or from one
location to another location. A valid permit shall be posted in every food
service establishment. Permits for temporary food or drink service
establishments shall be issued for a period of time not to exceed fourteen (14)
days per year.
   (A)   Issuance Of Permits: Any person desiring to operate a food or drink
service establishment shall make written application for a permit on forms
provided by the Health Authority. Such application shall include: the
applicant's full name and post office address and whether such applicant is an
individual, firm or corporation and, if a partnership, the names of the
partners, together with their addresses shall be included; the location and
type of proposed food service establishment; and the signature of the applicant
or applicants. If the application is for a temporary food service
establishment, it shall also include the inclusive dates of the proposed
operation.
Upon receipt of such an application, the Health Authority shall make an
inspection of the food service establishment to determine compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter. When inspection reveals that the applicable
requirements of this Chapter have been met, a permit shall be issued to the
applicant by the Health Authority.
   (B)   Suspension Of Permits: Permits may be suspended temporarily by the
Health Authority for failure of the holder to comply with the requirements of
any section of this Chapter.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Chapter, whenever the Health
Authority finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of a food or
drink service establishment which, in his judgment, constitutes a substantial
hazard to the public health, he may, without warning, notice or hearing, issue
a written notice to the permit holder or operator citing such condition,
specifying the corrective action to be taken and specifying the time period
within which such action shall be taken; and, if deemed necessary for the
protection of the health of the public, such order shall state that the permit
is immediately suspended, and all food or drink service operations are to be
immediately discontinued.
Any person to whom such an order is issued shall comply immediately therewith,
but upon written petition to the Board of Health, shall be afforded a hearing
as soon as possible.
   (C)   Reinstatement Of Suspended Permits: Any person whose permit has been
suspended may, at any time, make application for a reinspection for the purpose
of reinstatement of the permit. Within ten (10) days following receipt of a
written request, including a statement signed by the applicant that in his
opinion the conditions causing suspension of the permit have been corrected,
the Health Authority shall make a reinspection. If the applicant is complying
with the requirements of this Chapter, the permit shall be reinstated.
   (D)   Revocation Of Permits: For serious or repeated violations of any of
the requirements or provisions of this Chapter, or for interference with the
Health Authority by any person owning, having an ownership interest in
operation, managing, controlling or employed in a food and drink service
establishment in the performance of the Health Authority in enforcing the
provisions of this Chapter, the permit issued to such food and drink service
establishments may be permanently revoked after an opportunity for a hearing
has been provided by the Health Authority. Prior to such action, the Health
Authority shall notify the permit holder in writing, stating the reasons for
which the permit is subject to revocation and advising that the permit shall be
permanently revoked at the end of five (5) days following service of such
notice, unless a request for a hearing is filed with the Health Authority, by
the permit holder, within such five (5) day period. A permit may be suspended
for cause pending its revocation or a hearing relative thereto.
   (E)   Hearings: The hearings provided for in this Section shall be conducted
by the Board of Health at a time and place designated by the Health Authority.
Based upon the record of such hearing, the Health Authority shall make a
finding and shall sustain, modify, or rescind any official notice or order
considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be
furnished to the permit holder by the Health Authority. (Ord. 1972-15, 8-10-
1972; amd. Ord. 1978-9, 4-6-1978, eff. 4-16-1978)
4-21-3: INSPECTION OF FOOD AND DRINK SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS:
At least once every six (6) months, the Health Authority shall inspect each
food or drink service establishment located in the Village and shall make as
many additional inspections and reinspections as are necessary for the
enforcement of this Chapter.
   (A)   Access To Establishments: The Health Authority, after proper
identification, shall be permitted to enter, at any reasonable time, any food
or drink service establishment within the Village for the purpose of making
inspections to determine compliance with this Chapter. He shall be permitted to
examine the records of the establishment to obtain pertinent information
pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received or used, and persons
employed.
   (B)   Inspection Records: Whenever the Health Authority makes an inspection
of a food or drink service establishment, he shall record his findings on an
inspection report form provided for this purpose, and shall furnish a copy of
such inspection report with such findings recorded thereon to the permit holder
or operator. The operator or his authorized representative is required to sign
a receipt on the original inspection report indicating that the permit holder
or operator has received a copy thereof and the date upon which said copy was
received. (Ord. 1972-15, 8-10-1972, amd. Ord. 1978-9, 4-6-1978, eff. 4-16-1978)
   (C)   Inspection Fees: The fee for each health inspection required by this
Chapter shall be forty dollars ($40.00). The total annual fee of eighty dollars
($80.00) shall be deposited by the applicant or licensee at the time of
application or renewal. The fee for reinspections, as necessary, shall be forty
dollars ($40.00), payable at the time of such reinspection. (Ord. 1997-11, 10-
16-1997)
4-21-4: EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD:
Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Authority as often as may be
necessary to determine freedom from adulteration or misbranding. The Health
Authority may, upon written notice to the owner or person in charge, place a
hold order on any food which he determines or has probable cause to believe to
be unwholesome or otherwise, adulterated or misbranded or contaminated with
foreign matter. Under a hold order, food shall be permitted to be suitably
stored. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or alter a hold order,
notice or tag placed on food by the Health Authority, and neither such food nor
the containers thereof shall be relabeled, repacked, reprocessed, altered,
disposed of or destroyed without permission of the Health Authority, except on
order by a court of competent jurisdiction. After the owner or person in charge
has had a hearing, and on the basis of his examination in the event a written
request for a hearing is not received within ten (10) days, the Health
Authority may vacate the hold order, or may, by written order, direct the owner
or person in charge of the food which was placed under the hold order to
denature or destroy such food or to bring it into compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
Provided, that such order of the Health Authority to denature or destroy such
food or bring it into compliance with the provisions of this Chapter shall be
stayed if the order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within
three (3) days. (Ord. 1972-15, 8-10-1972; amd. Ord. 1978-9, 4-6-1978, eff. 4-
16-1978)
4-21-5: PLAN REVIEW OF FUTURE CONSTRUCTION:
When a food service establishment is hereafter constructed or extensively
remodeled, or when an existing structure is converted or extensively remodeled,
or when an existing structure is converted for use as a food service
establishment, properly prepared plans and specifications for such
construction, remodeling or alteration, showing layout, arrangement and
construction material of work areas, and the location, size, and type of fixed
equipment and facilities, and the name and model number of equipment, shall be
submitted to the Health Authority for approval before such work is begun. (Ord.
1972-15, 8-10-1972; amd. Ord. 1978-9, 4-6-1978, eff. 4-16-1978)
4-21-6: PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION IS SUSPECTED:
When the Health Authority has reasonable cause to suspect possibility of
disease transmission from any food service establishment employee, the Health
Authority shall secure a morbidity history of the suspected employee, or make
such other investigation as may be indicated, and take appropriate action. The
Health Authority may require any or all of the following measures:
   (A)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all food service
establishments.
   (B)   The immediate closure of the food or drink service establishment
concerned until, in the opinion of the Health Authority, no further danger of
disease outbreak exists.
   (C)   Restriction of the employee's services to some area of the
establishment where there would be no danger of transmitting disease.
   (D)   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee, of other
employees, and of his and their body discharges. (Ord. 1972-15, 8-10-1972; amd.
Ord. 1978-9, 4-6-1978, eff. 4-16-1978)
4-21-7: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, corporation or partnership who shall violate or refuse to
obey any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition thereto, such person may be enjoined
from continuing such violations. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day that a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1972-15, 8-10-1972;
amd. Ord. 1978-9, 4-6-1978, eff. 4-16-1978)
4-21-8: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS OUTSIDE JURISDICTION OF THIS HEALTH
AUTHORITY:
Food from food service establishments outside the jurisdiction of the Village
may be sold within the jurisdiction of the Village if such food service
establishments conform to these provisions. The Health Authority may accept
reports from responsible authority in other jurisdictions or make inspections
of such food service establishments to determine compliance with this Chapter.
(Ord. 1972-15, 8-10-1972; amd. Ord. 1978-9, 4-6-1978, eff. 4-16-1978)
CHAPTER 22
NOISE
SECTION:
4-22-1: Legislative Declaration
4-22-2: Definitions
4-22-3: General Prohibitions
4-22-4: Specific Prohibitions
4-22-5: Inspections
4-22-6: Special Variances
4-22-7: Abatement Orders
4-22-8: Notice Of Violation
4-22-9: Other Remedies
4-22-10: Exceptions
4-22-11: Penalty
4-22-1: LEGISLATIVE DECLARATION:
   (A)   Section 11-5-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 grants specific
authority to all municipalities to control noise.
   (B)   Section 11-60-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 2 provides that
municipalities may define, prevent and abate nuisances.
   (C)   Municipalities are empowered to adopt and enforce environmental
ordinances and regulations concurrently with the State.
   (D)   Excessive noise degrades the environment of the Village to a degree
that:
      1.   Is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of its inhabitants.
      2.   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life, property,
recreation and with the conduct of business and industry.
      3.   It offends the senses, creates public nuisances, depresses property
values or in other respects reduces the quality of our way of life.
   (E)   Effective control and elimination of excessive noise and excessive
vibration is essential to the furtherance of the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village and to the conduct of the normal pursuits of life,
recreation, commerce and industrial activity. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-60-2.
4-22-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended:
CONSTRUCTION: Any site preparation assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration or similar activity, but excluding demolition, for or on public or
private rights of way, structures, utilities or similar property.
DEMOLITION: Any dismantling or intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of- way surfaces or similar
property.
EMERGENCY: An occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent
physical trauma or property damage or loss that demands immediate action.
EMERGENCY WORK: Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating
physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.
NOISE: Any sound which annoys or disturbs or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which:
   (A)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals.
   (B)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities.
   (C)   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
   (D)   Unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life, use of property or
with any lawful business or activity or recreational activity.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership or corporation.
REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY: The property line along the ground surface and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another person.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Single-family, two-family and multi-family zoning district
classifications.
SOUND: An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity or
other physical parameter, in a medium with internal or interval forces that
cause compression and rarefaction of that medium and which propagates at finite
speed. The description of sound may include any characteristic of such sound,
including duration, intensity and frequency. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
4-22-3: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
In addition to the specific prohibitions contained in this Chapter, no person
shall unreasonably make, continue or cause to be made, continued or permitted,
any "noise disturbance", as defined herein. This Section shall not apply to
noncommercial public speaking and public assembly activities conducted on any
public space or public right of way, for which a permit has been obtained.
(Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
4-22-4: SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any person
within the corporate limits of the Village are hereby declared to be unlawful
and prohibited:
   (A)   Construction: It is unlawful to operate or permit the operation of any
tools or equipment used in construction, drilling or demolition work such that
the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) P.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M., local time, Monday through Friday but excluding State and
Federal Holidays; and between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) P.M. and eight
o’clock (8:00) A. M. on Saturday, Sunday, and State and Federal Holidays,
except for emergency work of the village, public service utilities, or by
special variance.
   (B)   Emergency Signaling Devices:
      1.   It is unlawful to intentionally sound or permit the sounding
outdoors of any fire or burglar alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, except for actual emergency purposes or for
testing, as provided herein. Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device
shall occur at the same time of day each time such a test is performed. Testing
shall not take place before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. local time. Any testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time,
which shall in no case exceed sixty (60) seconds. Testing of the complete
emergency signaling system, including functioning of the signaling device and
the personnel response, shall not take place before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or
after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. local time. In no case shall such a test exceed
ten (10) minutes.
      2.   It is unlawful to sound or permit the sounding of an exterior
burglar or fire alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm, unless such alarm is
automatically terminated within two (2) minutes of activation or within a
reasonable time after notification of such activation.
      3.   It is unlawful to sound any horn or other auditory signaling device
on or in any motor vehicle on any public right of way or public space, except
as a warning of its approach, danger or an emergency.
   (C)   Loading And Unloading: It is unlawful to load, unload, open, close or
do other handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, dumpsters,
garbage cans or similar objects between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance
across a residential real property boundary.
   (D)   Lawn Care, Tree Trimming And Property Maintenance: It is unlawful to
perform any lawn care, tree trimming or property repair or maintenance between
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., in such a
manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary.
   (E)   Quiet Hours: Means the period of time beginning at ten o’clock (10:00)
P.M. and ending at seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. the following day, unless the
following day is a Saturday, Sunday, or official village holiday, in which case
“quiet hours” means the period of time beginning at eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.
and ending at ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. the following day. Official Village
holidays are New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Presidents’ Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day and the Friday thereafter, and Christmas Day.
   (F)   During “quiet hours,” as defined in Subsection (E) above, “excessive
noise” means:
      1.   Sound emitting from any property, or inside any structure thereon,
that exceeds:
         (a)   Fifty (50) dBA measured at any location at or beyond the lot
line of the property being subject to the complained of noise; or
         (b)   Forty (40) dBA measured at any location inside any other
structure upon the property being subject to the complained of noise.
      2.   Sound emitting from any source not located on a property or inside a
structure on a property, including, without limitation, vehicles and equipment
located on a public right-of-way, that exceeds:
         (a)   Fifty (50) dBA measured at any point located more than thirty
feet (30') away from the sound source; or
         (b)   Forty (40) dBA measured at a location inside any structure.
(Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999; amd. Ord. 2019-33, 11-7-2019; Ord. 2023-12, 5-18-2023)
4-22-5: INSPECTIONS:
Any Village law enforcement officer, in addition to any other authority vested
in such officer, has the power, upon presentation of proper credentials, to
enter and inspect any dwelling, multi-family dwelling, building, structure or
premises within the Village as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of
this Chapter, provided permission is obtained from the occupant or, in the case
of unoccupied property, from the owner or his agent. If such permission is
refused, or is otherwise unobtainable, a search warrant must be obtained upon
the showing of probable cause to believe that a violation of this Chapter may
exist, before such entry or inspection is made. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
4-22-6: SPECIAL VARIANCES:
   (A)   The Community Development Director or designated representative shall
have the authority, consistent with this Chapter, to recommend the granting or
denial of special variances.
   (B)   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this Chapter shall
file an application with the Community Development Director or designated
representative. The application shall contain information which demonstrates
that bringing the source of sound or activity for which the special variance is
sought into compliance with this Chapter would constitute an unreasonable
hardship on the applicant, on the community or on other persons. Notice of an
application for special variance shall be given by the Community Development
Director or representative to the owners of property within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the source of the sound or activity and who may be adversely
affected by the granting of the variance. An individual who claims to be
adversely affected by the allowance of the special variance may file a
statement with the Director or representative containing any information to
support such claim.
   (C)   In determining whether to recommend the granting or denial of the
application, the Director or representative shall balance the hardship to the
applicant, the community and other persons, of not granting the special
variance against the adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of
persons affected; the adverse impact on property affected; and any other
adverse impact of granting the special variance. Applicants for special
variance and persons contesting special variances may be required to submit
such additional information as the Director or representative may reasonably
require. The Director shall, within ten (10) working days of the receipt of the
application and all supporting documents, forward a recommendation to the
corporate authorities for their consideration. The corporate authorities shall
grant or deny the application and shall place in the minutes of their
proceedings the decision and reasons for their action on the application. The
Director shall notify the applicant of the decision of the corporate
authorities in writing.
   (D)   A special variance shall be granted by notice to the applicant
containing all necessary conditions, including a time limit of the permitted
activity. The special variance shall not become effective until all conditions
are adhered to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any conditions of the
special variance shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to those
provisions of this Chapter regarding the source of sound or activity for which
the special variance was granted.
   (E)   Applications for extension of time limits specified in special
variances or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated
like initial applications.
   (F)   The Director or designated representative may issue guidelines
approved by the corporate authorities defining the procedures to be followed in
applying for a special variance and the criteria to be considered in deciding
whether or not to grant a special variance.
   (G)   Enforcement of this Chapter shall be stayed as to any person filing an
application for a special variance pursuant to this Section until such time as
the application is acted upon by the corporate authorities. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-
1999)
4-22-7: ABATEMENT ORDERS:
In lieu of issuing a notice of violation, any Village law enforcement officer
may issue an order requiring the immediate abatement of any source of sound in
violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
4-22-8: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Except where a person is acting in good faith to comply with an abatement order
issued pursuant to this Chapter, any violation shall be a cause for a notice of
violation to be issued by any law enforcement officer. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
4-22-9: OTHER REMEDIES:
No provision of this Chapter shall be construed to impair any common law or
statutory cause of action or legal remedy therefrom, of any person for injury
or damage arising from any violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
4-22-10: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or for the performance of emergency work to protect
the health, safety or welfare of the public.
   (B)   Organized governmental or school-related programs, activities, events,
parades or other public programs. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
4-22-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be fined, upon
conviction, not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 1999-12, 9-2-1999)
CHAPTER 23
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
4-23-1: Definitions
4-23-2: Prohibited Littering
4-23-3: Prohibited Transportation And Deposit Of Litter Or Littering From Motor
Vehicles
4-23-4: Accumulation Of Litter Prohibited
4-23-5: Abandonment Of Motor Vehicle Prohibited
4-23-6: Violations, Enforcement And Fines
4-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
LITTER: Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. "Litter" may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, cigarettes, debris,
rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging construction
material, abandoned vehicle (as defined in the Illinois vehicle code), motor
vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any person or create
a traffic hazard, potentially infectious medical waste as defined in section
3.360 of the environmental protection act, or anything else of an unsightly or
unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of
improperly.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Has the meaning ascribed to that term in section 1-146 of the
Illinois vehicle code.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, or
their legal representative, agent or assigns. (Ord. 2015-11, 8-6-2015)
4-23-2: PROHIBITED LITTERING:
No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter upon
any public or private property in this village, or upon or into any river,
lake, pond, or other stream or body of water within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the village, unless:
   (A)   The property has been designated by the state or any of its agencies
or the village for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on
that property in accordance with all applicable laws, statutes, ordinances,
rules and regulations;
   (B)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
an owner or a tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
   (C)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, or a
fire hazard;
   (D)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; or
   (E)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of
such litter, including, but not limited to, potentially infectious medical
waste as defined in section 3.360 of the environmental protection act, when the
emergency situation no longer exists. (Ord. 2015-11, 8-6-2015)
4-23-3: PROHIBITED TRANSPORTATION AND DEPOSIT OF LITTER OR LITTERING FROM MOTOR
VEHICLES:
No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise dispose of
litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any public or
private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or body of water
within the jurisdictional boundaries of this village except as permitted under
any of subsections
4-23-2(A) through (E) of this chapter. Nor shall any person transport, by any
means, garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, or
other site to and deposit such material in, around or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at parks or such other
areas within the village. (Ord. 2015-11, 8-6-2015)
4-23-4: ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED:
No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the real property of another
person or entity. (Ord. 2015-11, 8-6-2015)
4-23-5: ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED:
No person shall abandon a motor vehicle on any highway, on any public property
or on any private property of which he is not the owner or tenant in lawful
possession in this village. The person to whom last was issued the certificate
of title to the vehicle by the Illinois secretary of state is presumed to be
the person to have abandoned that vehicle, but such presumption may be
rebutted. (Ord. 2015-11, 8-6-2015)
4-23-6: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND FINES:
Persons who are found to have violated any of sections
4-23-2 through
4-23-5 of this chapter are subject to a mandatory minimum fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00), but no such fine shall exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per violation.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by any duly authorized
officer or employee of the village by issuance of citations and enforcement
action before the administrative adjudication department pursuant to title I,
chapter 20 of this code. The citations issued pursuant to this chapter shall
conspicuously include the following:
      1.   The name of the offense and its code reference;
      2.   The nature and elements of the violation;
      3.   The date and location of the violation;
      4.   The name of the enforcing agency;
      5.   The name of the violator;
      6.   The amount of the imposed fine and the location where the violator
can pay the fine without objection;
      7.   The date, time and location at which the violator may appear for a
hearing before the administrative adjudication department to contest the
imposition of the fine imposed by the citation;
      8.   The time period in which to pay the fine imposed by the citation;
and
      9.   The verified signature of the person issuing the citation.
One copy of the citation shall be provided to the violator, one copy shall be
retained by the enforcing officer, and one copy shall be provided to the
administrative adjudication department hereby authorized to receive fines on
behalf of the village.
   (B)   A violator may pay the fine without objection or contest the citation
in accordance with this chapter. The citation shall notify the violator in
writing of the time, place, and location of the hearing at which the citation
may be contested. The hearing shall be conducted at the administrative
adjudication department's hearing facilities at 2621 Thatcher Avenue, River
Grove, Illinois, and in accordance with the administrative adjudication
ordinance set forth in title I, chapter 20 of this code.
   (C)   Fines imposed under this chapter may be collected in accordance with
all methods otherwise available to the village and its administrative
adjudication department, except that there shall be no collection efforts
during the pendency of the hearing before the department. (Ord. 2015-11, 8-6-
2015)
CHAPTER 24
PUBLIC CAMPING
SECTION:
4-24-1: Public Camping As A Nuisance
4-24-2: Regulation Of Public Camping Necessary To Promote Public Health
4-24-3: Public Camping Not Intended Use Of Public Property
4-24-4: Definitions
4-24-5: Public Camping Prohibited
4-24-6: Exceptions To Prohibition
4-24-7: Removal Of Campsite
4-24-8: Disposition And Release Of Personal Property
4-24-9: Penalty; Mitigation
4-24-1: PUBLIC CAMPING AS A NUISANCE:
Public Camping, as the term is defined herein, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance within the Village for the reasons identified above. (Ord. 2024-24,
10-21-2024)
4-24-2: REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH:
In an effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village hereby declare it necessary or
expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of diseases, to
regulate Public Camping, as that term is defined herein, within the Village’s
corporate limits. (Ord. 2024-24, 10-21-2024)
4-24-3: PUBLIC CAMPING NOT INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the Village in
any subsequent ordinance, the Village hereby declares that its property is
neither permitted nor intended to be used for Public Camping, as the term is
defined herein. (Ord. 2024-24, 10-21-2024)
4-24-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
BEDDING: A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding purposes.
CAMPSITE: Any physical space that is not within an established structure, where
Bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY: Items which would otherwise constitute Personal
Property under the terms of this chapter, but which (i) has no apparent utility
or monetary value; (ii) Personal Property which is unsanitary to store or
otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed illegally; (iv) drug
paraphernalia; (v) items appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person cannot demonstrate the
requisite lawful authority to possess; and, (vii) any items of food which can
reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish within the next 30 days.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a person
and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for Exempt Personal
Property.
PUBLIC CAMPING: To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the act of
remaining in or at, a Campsite. (Ord. 2024-24, 10-21-2024)
4-24-5: PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
   B.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
   C.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the Village.
   D.   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the Village for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in Public Camping in said vehicle.
   E.   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the Village for the purpose
of Public Camping, for two consecutive hours without permission from the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village, between the hours of midnight
and 6:00 a.m., shall be considered a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2024-24,
10-21-2024)
4-24-6: EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to engage in Public
Camping when done (i) in a manner specifically authorized by this Code; (ii)
after a formal declaration of the Village in emergency circumstances; or, (iii)
upon resolution of the President and Board of Trustees of the Village, the same
may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this section, if the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village finds such exemption to be in
the public interest and consistent with the goals and objectives of the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village, and with such conditions
imposed as the President and Board of Trustees of the Village deems necessary.
Any conditions imposed will include a condition requiring that the applicant
provide evidence of adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the
Village for any liability, damage or expense incurred by the Village as a
result of the activities of the applicant. Any findings by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village shall specify the exact dates and location
covered by the exemption. (Ord. 2024-24, 10-21-2024)
4-24-7: REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE:
Removal of a Campsite in violation of this chapter may occur under the
following circumstances:
   A.   Prior to removing a Campsite, the Village shall post a notice, 24-hours
in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the Campsite is deemed
to be necessary for one of the reasons in subparagraphs 1-4, below. If such
immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for causing the immediate removal of
such Campsite should be adequately documented by the appropriate person(s).
      1.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain access to
a property;
      2.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
      3.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or,
      4.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
poses a risk to the health and safety of the Village and its residents.
   B.   Upon any action pursuant to Section 8.A, above, the person causing such
action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the Village, of the location of the
Campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this chapter, so said
agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its
services to those persons.
   C.   If a 24-hour notice has been posted, and the 24-hour notice period has
passed, then the Campsite, as well as all Personal Property thereon, shall be
removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on behalf of the Village.
   D.   No portion of this Section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in Public Camping from removing their Personal Property
from the Campsite; however, such Personal Property that constitutes Exempt
Personal Property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that said
Exempt Personal Property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence. (Ord. 2024-24, 10-21-2024)
4-24-8: DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   All Personal Property removed from any Campsite which is not Exempt
Personal Property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the Village, for a minimum of 30 days, during which time it shall be reasonably
available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
   B.   All Exempt Personal Property may be disposed of or retained as evidence
by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the Village. (Ord. 2024-24, 10-21-
2024)
4-24-9: PENALTY; MITIGATION:
   A.   The penalty for any person’s first violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty- four (24) month period shall be $75.
   B.   The penalty for any person’s second violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $150.
   C.   The penalty for any person’s third violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $350.
   D.   The penalty for any person’s fourth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $500.
   E.   The penalty for any person’s fifth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty- four (24) month period shall be $750.
   F.   The penalty for any person’s sixth or subsequent violation of this
chapter within a rolling twenty-four (24) month period may be a monetary
penalty of $750 or incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time
allowed pursuant to Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-
2-9).
   G.   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
paragraphs A-F, above, and if consented to by the Village, the penalty assessed
to any person found in violation of this chapter may be that said person must
engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and other public
facilities of the Village for an amount of time that, if the person found to
have violated this chapter was being paid the minimum wage under Illinois law,
the amount paid for that person’s labors would have been equal to the monetary
penalty assessed under this chapter.
   H.   The Village is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it,
at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this chapter, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of said person
for a period of time that conforms with Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal
Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
   I.   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this Section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
Personal Property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the Campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this chapter.
   J.   A separate offense of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   K.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this chapter, any
person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from the
premises where the Campsite is located. (Ord. 2024-24, 10-21-2024)
TITLE V
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LICENSE
SECTION:
5-1-1: President To Grant And May Revoke
5-1-2: Subject To This Code
5-1-3: Application; Affidavits
5-1-3.1: Application Fee
5-1-4: Terms Of License
5-1-4.1: Failure To Obtain Or Renew License In A Timely Manner
5-1-5: No Rebate
5-1-6: Notice Of Termination
5-1-7: No License Or Permit To Any Persons Indebted To The Village
5-1-8: Record Of Clerk
5-1-9: Transfer Of License
5-1-10: License; Bond, Approval Of
5-1-11: Change Of Location; Notice To Clerk
5-1-12: License To Be Posted
5-1-13: Parking Required
5-1-14: Sanitation
5-1-15: Nuisances
5-1-16: Frontage Consents
5-1-17: Frontage Consents; Majority Required
5-1-18: License And Permit Fee Schedule
5-1-19: Disturbing The Peace
5-1-20: Hours Of Delivery
5-1-1: PRESIDENT TO GRANT AND MAY REVOKE:
In all cases where licenses are required to be procured, such license shall be
granted by the president, and attested by the clerk, except where provision is
expressly made for the granting of licenses by some other officer of the
village. The president shall also have power to revoke any license granted for
any violation of any provision of this code relating to the license or the
business or occupation licensed, or for any violation of the terms or
conditions upon which the license was granted. (4-18-57)
5-1-2: SUBJECT TO THIS CODE:
All licenses shall be subject to all the provisions of this code which may be
in force at the time of issuing thereof and all which may be subsequently
passed by said village relating to the license or subject matter thereof. (4-
18-57)
5-1-3: APPLICATION; AFFIDAVITS:
All licenses authorized to be issued and required to be procured in and by this
chapter, which are granted by the president, shall be issued by the clerk upon
instruction or direction from the president so to do. Written application for
such license shall be made to the clerk in each case upon blanks furnished by
him, except where otherwise specifically provided for, and a new application
shall be made upon the expiration of any license issued, before a new license
shall issue. In case the provisions of this code, or in the absence thereof the
president requires an investigation, on receipt of the application, the clerk
shall, at once, proceed to make such an investigation of the applicant as is
required by the provisions of this code or by said president, or shall transmit
such application to the proper department for such investigation. If such
report recommends the granting of the license, the clerk shall notify the
applicant and upon payment of the license fee and the filing of a bond in
accordance with the provisions of this code when bond is required, the clerk,
when authorized so to do by the president, shall issue to the applicant a
license bearing the seal of the village for a period for which payment is made.
(4-18-57)
5-1-3.1: APPLICATION FEE:
All new applications must be accompanied by a fee of seventy five dollars
($75.00) to defray the cost of processing the application. This fee is not
refundable; however, if the license applied for is granted and issued, the
amount of said fee will be credited against the license fee. (Ord. 1992-05, 4-
2-1992, eff. 5-1-1992)
5-1-4: TERMS OF LICENSE:
All licenses granted under the terms of this chapter shall expire on April 30
following the date of issue, except licenses issued for a day or a month, and
the fee for the same paid at the rate herein provided. No license shall be
issued at the yearly rate of license fee except for the full year or the
unexpired term of the year from the date of application for such license. The
fee shall not be prorated for an unexpired term. License fees shall be
collected in full at the time of the issuance and delivery thereof. (Ord. 2000-
03, 2-3-2000)
5-1-4.1: FAILURE TO OBTAIN OR RENEW LICENSE IN A TIMELY MANNER:
   (A)   New Business License Applications And Failure To Obtain License Before
Commencing Business Operations: All new business license applications must be
accompanied by a one hundred dollar ($100.00) nonrefundable deposit which will
be applied to the license fee required by the schedule set forth in section
5-1-18 of this chapter if a license is granted or renewed by the license
committee. In the event that the applicant fails to submit its license
application and obtain all necessary business licenses before commencing
operations or continues to operate after the expiration of any issued license
(s), any applicable license fee shall be increased by two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). No license shall be issued before payment in full of all applicable
license fees, including any fee required due to an applicant's failure to
obtain any required license before commencing operations or to renew required
license(s) in a timely manner.
   (B)   Renewal Of License: The license fee for renewing any previously issued
license is due on or before April 30 of the applicable municipal fiscal year.
In the event that a business fails to submit an application to renew all
applicable license fees on or before April 30, each applicable license fee
shall be increased by two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). If a business does
not renew its license or licenses on or before May 31, the applicant's right to
renew each license shall be null and void, and all business operations shall
cease unless and until all proper licenses are obtained, and all additional
fees, including late renewal fees, are paid in full. All applications for
renewal submitted after May 31 of the year shall require the completion of all
documents required for a license for a new business and be subject to all
inspections and reviews required of new business license applications. (Ord.
2011-02, 2-3-2011)
5-1-5: NO REBATE:
In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license fee or part
thereof, by reason of the death of the licensee, or by reason of nonuse of the
license, or by reason of a change of location or occupation in such license.
(4-18-1957)
5-1-6: NOTICE OF TERMINATION:
If a license extends beyond one month, it shall be the duty of the clerk, from
ten (10) or twenty (20) days prior to the termination of the license period, to
cause a written notice to be mailed to each licensee, directing the attention
of such licensee to the fact that a new license will be required on the day
following the expiration of his existing license and directing his attention
also to the amount of the license fee and to the penalty for failure to procure
a license in accordance with the provisions of this code governing the issuance
of such license; provided, however, that failure on the part of the clerk to
cause such notice to be mailed to each licensee shall not be deemed a defense
to a suit brought by the village to recover the penalty for a violation of the
code provision under which the license is required to be secured. (4-18-1957)
5-1-7: NO LICENSE OR PERMIT TO ANY PERSON INDEBTED TO THE VILLAGE:
Hereafter no license or permit shall be issued to any person, unless such
person discharges and pays to the village all indebtedness then due from such
person. (4-18-1957)
5-1-8: RECORD OF CLERK:
The clerk shall procure and keep a book to be called the license register of
the village, in which book he shall enter the name and location of each
licensee, the nature of the license granted, the date of issuance of said
license and the date of expiration thereof, together with the amount of license
fee collected, and he shall prepare and transmit to the village board, monthly,
a report containing said information. (4-18-1957)
5-1-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license granted under the provisions of this chapter shall be assigned or
transferred, except as hereinafter provided, nor shall any such license
authorize any person to do business or act under it but the person named
therein. Any person to whom any license shall have been issued, may with the
permission of the president, assign and transfer the same to any other person,
and the person to whom such license is issued or the assignee of such license
may have a new license issued for the unexpired term of the old license
authorizing the assignee or transferee of such license to carry on the same
business or occupation at such place as may be named in such new license;
provided, further, that nothing herein contained shall be held to authorize the
assignment or transfer of auctioneers' or runners' licenses; such licenses
shall be nonassignable and nontransferable. (4-18-1957)
5-1-10: LICENSE; BOND, APPROVAL OF:
Any bond given by any person to the village where such license bond is required
under the provisions of this chapter shall, before a license is granted, be
approved by the clerk except where otherwise provided, and the clerk shall
thoroughly investigate the sureties on any license bond, and, if satisfied that
the same are good, he shall approve such bond. (4-18-57)
5-1-11: CHANGE OF LOCATION; NOTICE TO CLERK:
If any person licensed by the village to carry on, engage in, or conduct any
business or occupation required to be licensed, and in having designated
therein, his or its license a particular place in which business so licensed is
to be carried on, engaged in, or conducted, shall, before expiration of such
license, change the location of such place of business, he or it shall
forthwith notify the clerk of such fact, and no business shall be carried on,
engaged in, or conducted, under the authority of such license at such new
location, until notice of such change has been given as herein provided. (4-18-
57)
5-1-12: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
Every license granted for the purpose of conducting any business or occupation
required to be licensed, and having designated therein in the particular room,
store, office or place in which such business so licensed is to be conducted,
shall be posted at all times in a conspicuous place so that the same may be
easily seen, upon the wall of the principal room or office of the store or
place in which such licensed business or occupation is carried on; and when
such license shall have expired, it shall be removed from such place in which
it has been posted and no license which is not in force and effect shall be
permitted to remain posted upon the wall or upon any part of any room, store,
office, or place of business, after the period of such license has expired. (4-
18-57)
5-1-13: PARKING REQUIRED:
No license or permit shall hereafter be issued or granted for the establishment
of any use or business or the construction or modification of any structure or
building therefor, in which such use or business serves members of the public
who enter into or upon the premises in that connection, unless parking
facilities conforming to the specifications contained in title VI, chapter 12
of this code are provided on the same lot or parcel, for vehicles of all owners
and employees and a minimum of one parking space for every three (3) persons
permitted by this code to occupy the premises. (Ord. 1972-6, 4-6-1972)
5-1-14: SANITATION:
No license to conduct any business or occupation shall be issued when it
appears that the premises or building on or in which the business or occupation
licensed is to be conducted is maintained or permitted to remain in an
unsanitary condition so as to endanger health. (4-18-57)
5-1-15: NUISANCES:
No business, whether licensed by the Village or other governmental authority,
shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to a nuisance in fact, and shall
otherwise comply with the following provisions:
   (A)   Public Ways - Maintenance - Littering Prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any person to engage in any business or occupation on any premises abutting
a public way, or for any person using any part of a public way for or in
connection with the business or occupation, to litter or to permit the
accumulation of any paper, rubbish or refuse upon that portion of the public
way abutting said premises or on and about that portion of the public way so
used. It shall also be the duty of the person to remove the snow and ice from
the sidewalk in front of the premises used in the business or occupation. For
the purpose of this section, "licensee" includes an employee or agent of the
business or occupation.
   (B)   Illegal Conduct on Premises of Business or Occupation - Cooperation
with Police. No person shall permit or allow any illegal activity on the
premises of any business or occupation. It is the affirmative duty of any
person operating or employed by a business or occupation to report promptly to
the police department all illegal activity reported, observed on, or within
sight of the premises of the business or occupation; to answer fully and
truthfully all questions of an identified police officer who inquires about or
investigates any persons or events in or around the business or occupation; to
cooperate with the police department in any such inquiry or investigation,
including the giving of oral or written statements to the police at reasonable
times and locations in the course of investigations; and to sign a complaint
against any individual whom the person observes engaging in any illegal conduct
or activity on, in or within sight of the premises. For purposes of this
subsection, "person" includes an employee or agent of the business or
occupation.
   (C)   Businesses or Occupations that Are or Cause A Nuisance:
      1.   A license may be suspended or revoked if a licensee's business is or
creates a nuisance. A nuisance shall include without limitation circumstances
where a business or occupation: (i) causes, creates or is the site of three or
more illegal acts within any consecutive 6 month period; or causes, creates or
is the site of seven or more illegal acts within any consecutive 12 month
period, when such acts occur in or upon the premises of the business or
occupation, on or in the parking lot of the business or occupation, or property
adjacent to the premises or parking lot of a business or occupation; or (ii)
the business or occupation has failed to take reasonable steps to correct
illegal or objectionable conditions existing or occurring on the premises of
the business or occupation, on or in the parking lot of the business or
occupation, or on adjacent property while the business or occupation is open
for business or within one hour of the time the business or occupation is
opened or closed for transacting business. The licenses of any business or
occupation that is or creates a nuisance under clause (i) of this subsection
(C)1. shall be subject to suspension or revocation pursuant to Section
5-1-1. The licenses of any business or occupation that is or creates a nuisance
under clause (ii) of this subsection (C)1. shall be subject to suspension or
revocation pursuant to the procedures set forth in subsection (C)2. of this
section.
      2.   (a)   If any business or occupation causes, creates or is the site
of three or more illegal acts within any consecutive 6 month period; or causes,
creates or is the site of seven or more illegal acts within any consecutive 12
month period, and such acts are reported to have occurred on the premises of
the business or occupation, on or in the parking lot of the business or
occupation, or on adjacent property, a complaint may be filed by the Village
that the business or occupation is a public nuisance because the business or
occupation has failed to take reasonable steps to correct objectionable
conditions existing or events occurring upon the premises of the business or
occupation, on or in the parking lot of the business or occupation, or on
adjacent property. Written notice shall be served upon the business or
occupation to appear before the President, when the President deems such
presence necessary and appropriate, to define, discuss and seek resolution of
circumstances giving rise to the complaint. The President may also order
subsequent meetings to review progress toward resolution of the circumstances.
      The failure of a business or occupation to appear in response to a
notice, or to attend subsequent meetings as ordered by the President, shall be
grounds for the imposition of a fine and/or the suspension or revocation of any
applicable license of the business or occupation, or the President's issuance
of a cease and desist order prohibiting the business or occupation from
transacting further business within the Village. The progress made in resolving
the circumstances identified in the complaint and meeting process shall be
considered in any proceeding to suspend or revoke a license under this section.
         (b)   After the President determines that the complaint and meeting
process have been completed, or the business or occupation has failed to submit
a plan of corrective action pursuant to subsection (d), the President may
institute a hearing based upon a reasonable belief that the operation of the
business or occupation is a public nuisance. At the conclusion of the hearing,
if the President determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the
operation of the business or occupation is a public nuisance because the
licensee has failed to take reasonable steps to correct or prevent
objectionable conditions or events from occurring on or in the premises, the
parking lot or adjacent property to the business or occupation, the President
may enter an order suspending or revoking any applicable license of the
business or occupation and/or enjoining the business or occupation from
conducting further business within the Village.
      When determining what constitutes reasonable steps, the President shall
consider site configuration constraints and other factors related to any unique
circumstances or the nature of the business or occupation, as well as the
frequency of complaints of objectionable conditions or events, and the manner
in which the business or occupation has sought to address and alleviate such
conditions or events. "Reasonable steps" shall include, but are not limited to,
the following:
            (1)   Calling the Police Department. Prompt and timely calls to the
police department via 9-1-1 that are placed by the business or occupation, or
its agents or employees, shall not, in and of themselves, be construed by the
President as evidence of objectionable conditions or events that alone
constitute a nuisance.
            (2)   Directing any individual(s) engaging in activities causing
objectionable conditions or events to cease those activities, unless the
business or occupation, or its agents or employees, reasonably believe that an
individual's personal safety would be threatened if such direction was issued.
Directions of this nature may be provided orally or in writing.
            (3)   Making good-faith efforts to remove items from the premises
or parking lot of the business or occupation that facilitate loitering, such as
furniture.
            (4)   Attending meetings, public safety meetings or other similar
informational meetings or educational events sponsored by the Village and
designed to alert the business or occupation and its employees and agents to
problems related to the operation of the business or occupation and to promote
remediation of such objectionable conditions or events.
         (c)   As part of an order of suspension, revocation or to cease and
desist business operations issued by the President, the President may impose
conditions upon the future operation of the business or occupation that are
useful or necessary to mitigate the public nuisance, including, but not limited
to: providing security personnel, restricted hours of operation, providing
outdoor lighting, the display of signs, providing trash pickup services or any
other reasonable restrictions or obligations on business practices until the
President concludes that the conditions which gave rise to the public nuisance
are abated.
         (d)   (1)   Notwithstanding subsection (b), at any time prior to the
initiation of proceedings to revoke or suspend a license under this section, if
the President determines that a business or occupation meets the criteria for a
public nuisance under subsection (a), the President may elect to notify the
business or occupation of this determination in writing. Upon such
notification, the President may request the business or occupation to submit a
plan of corrective action that provides reasonable assurances that the
operation of the business will not cause, or continue to cause, a public
nuisance. Subject to the approval by the President, the plan may include
conditions and obligations upon the operation of the business or occupation
that are deemed necessary and appropriate to mitigate the public nuisance,
including, but not limited to: providing security personnel, restricted hours
of operation, providing outdoor lighting, the display of signs, providing trash
pickup services, and any other reasonable restrictions or obligations upon the
business or occupation.
            (2)   Any business or occupation that fails to comply with all
requirements of an approved plan of corrective action shall be fined not less
than $250.00 nor more than $750.00 for each day of non-compliance, or
alternatively, shall have its license suspended for a first violation until
compliance is achieved. For any subsequent violation, any license of the
business or occupation shall be revoked and an order to cease and desist
business operations shall be entered by the President. Each day that such
violation or non-compliance exists shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
            (3)   If the business or occupation does not submit a plan of
corrective action after a written request by the President, the President may
institute a hearing in compliance with subsection (b)(2).
            (4)   The President shall not approve any plan of corrective action
after the initiation of proceedings to revoke or suspend a license or order
that a business or occupation cease operations, unless the President determines
that it would be in the best interest of the Village to approve such a plan.
         (e)   The President shall deny an application for a license when the
premises identified in the application was subject to a license suspension,
revocation or a plan of corrective action pursuant to this section within the
three-year period prior to the date of the application; provided that the
President may approve an application if the applicant agrees to enter into and
comply with the plan of action approved by the President to abate or prevent
any of the conditions which gave rise to undertaking a plan of corrective
action, or the finding of a violation of this section; provided further for any
premises which is ineligible for a license due to a license being revoked for
cause at that location, no license shall be issued during of the term
ineligibility provided in the Code.
         (f)   In a proceeding to suspend or revoke the license or right of a
business or occupation to transact business within the Village, which is or
creates a nuisance under subsection (a) of this section:
            (1)   It shall not be a defense that the business or occupation or
its employees or agents were not personally involved in the commission of the
illegal acts or directly responsible for the objectionable conditions or events
except as provided otherwise in paragraph (2) of this subsection;
            (2)   For purposes of determining whether three or more illegal
acts or objectionable conditions or events occurred during a 6-month period; or
seven or more illegal acts or objectionable conditions or events occurred
during a 12-month period, illegal acts or objectionable conditions or events
occurring on the public way shall be limited to acts of the business or
occupation, its employees, agents or patrons or otherwise involving
circumstances having a nexus to the operation of the business or occupation;
            (3)   The illegal acts or objectionable conditions or events must
occur or exist while the premises of the business or occupation is open for
business or within one hour of the time the business or occupation is opened or
closed for business; and
            (4)   Any evidence upon which a reasonably prudent person would
rely may be considered without regard to the formal or technical rules of
evidence, and the President may rely upon police reports, official written
reports, affidavits and business records submitted by authorized Village
officials or employees charged with inspection or enforcement responsibilities
to determine whether such illegal acts or objectionable conditions or events
occurred. If during any 6-month period three or more separate incidents; or any
12-month period seven or more separate incidents of illegal acts or
objectionable conditions or events occur on the premises of the business or
occupation, on or in the parking lot of the business or occupation, or on
property adjacent to such premises or parking lot, a rebuttable presumption
shall exist that the business or occupation is or creates a nuisance in
violation of this section.
         (g)   A business or occupation may offer evidence of mitigating
factors in any disciplinary hearing where it is alleged that the business or
occupation is or creates a nuisance based upon the occurrence of three or more
illegal acts or objectionable conditions or events in any 6-month period; or
the occurrence of seven or more illegal acts or objectionable conditions or
events in any 12-month period. Mitigating factors may include evidence of the
reasonable efforts of the business or occupation to deter or discourage illegal
acts from occurring on the premises, parking lot or adjacent property such as:
the use of strategically placed recording cameras, employment of trained
security personnel, and a practice of promptly notifying the police when
illegal activity occurs or appears imminent, and cooperating with police
investigations. When reviewing any evidence of mitigating factors, the
President may consider factors related to the unique circumstances of the
nature of the business or occupation as well as the relative frequency of the
occurrence of illegal acts or objectionable conditions or events in the
surrounding community.
         (h)   For purposes of this section:
            (1)   "Adjacent property" means:
               (a)   any public way located immediately next to the premises of
a business or occupation, if such public way is used by the business or
occupation, or by patrons, agents or employees of the business or occupation as
a means of entry to or egress from the premises of the business or occupation;
or
               (b)   any private property that is located immediately next to
the premises of the business or occupation, if such private property is owned,
leased or rented by the business or occupation; or
               (c)   any private property separated from the premises of the
business or occupation by a public way and located immediately next to such
public way, if such private property is owned, leased or rented by the business
or occupation. For purposes of this definition, the term "public way" means any
sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other public thoroughfare.
            (2)   "Illegal acts" means any conduct or activity that violates
any federal or state law defining a felony, or any federal or state law or
municipal ordinance regulating narcotics, controlled substances or weapons.
            (3)   "Objectionable conditions or events" include, but are not
limited to, disturbance of the peace, public drunkenness, drinking in public,
harassment of passersby, gambling, prostitution, loitering, public urination,
lewd conduct, drug trafficking, or excessive loud noise. (Ord. 2021-10, 4-15-
2021)
5-1-16: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required as a
prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
clerk when signed.
Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn; and such petitions need
not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business, whether by the
same proprietor or not.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sign any but his own name to such a
petition, or to falsely represent that the names thereon have been properly
placed thereon if such is not the fact.
Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the person
securing the signatures that each signature appearing thereon was properly
secured and affixed and that the petition contains the necessary number of
signatures required by this code.
The frontage consent requirements contained in this code shall not be construed
as amending or changing any zoning provision of the village; and no such
provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building, or the conduct of a business, or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business or act is or are prohibited
by any zoning regulation of the village. (4-18-57)
5-1-17: FRONTAGE CONSENTS; MAJORITY REQUIRED:
Whenever frontage consents are required by this code as a prerequisite to the
issuance of any license or permit by the authorities of this village, such
consents must be obtained from a majority of the owners of property within a
radius of three hundred feet (300') from the premises for which the license or
permit is sought. For the purposes of this section, the said distance of three
hundred feet (300') shall commence at the property line of the premises for
which a license or permit is requested. (4-18-57)
5-1-18: LICENSE AND PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE:
   (A)   It is unlawful to engage in, operate or maintain any business, trade
or occupation licensed or regulated under this code without first obtaining the
prescribed license or permit and paying therefor the required fee for the
applicable license period.
   (B)   The listing of specific businesses, trades or occupations in the
master fee schedule shall not be deemed exclusive and any businesses, trades or
occupations licensed or regulated by any other provisions of this code shall be
governed thereby though not specifically listed therein.
   (C)   Should the fee established in the master fee schedule conflict with
any fee prescribed for the same license or permit in any other section of this
code, the higher shall prevail. (Ord. 2010-07, 4-1-2010)
5-1-19: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
No business shall be so conducted or operated as to disturb, interfere with,
impair or destroy the peace of the neighborhood or area in which such business
is situated. (Ord. 1972-18, 9-28-1972)
5-1-20: HOURS OF DELIVERY:
It is unlawful to make or receive deliveries of goods, wares or merchandise to
or by businesses conducted or operated within this village between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. daily. (Ord. 1972-
18, 9-28-1972)
CHAPTER 2
BARBER SHOPS AND BEAUTY PARLORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: License Required
5-2-2: Fees
5-2-3: Sanitation
5-2-4: Implements
5-2-5: Inspections
5-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a barber shop, beauty
parlor or physio-therapeutic establishment without having obtained a license
therefor. Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk in writing
and shall state therein the number of chairs to be used in the establishment.
5-2-2: FEES:
The annual fee for such license shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00), and no
license shall be issued except upon payment of the fee. (11-20-47)
5-2-3: SANITATION:
Premises used for a barber shop, beauty parlor or physio-therapeutic
establishment must be kept in clean and sanitary condition, and it shall be
unlawful to permit any waste material of any kind to accumulate therein. It
shall be unlawful to employ in such establishment any person afflicted with a
venereal or contagious disease.
5-2-4: IMPLEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful in any establishment to use any implements or tools upon
any person after the same have been used upon a person afflicted with any skin
or scalp disease without first sterilizing the implement or tool. It shall be
unlawful to use any towel on any customer after the same has been used before
without having the same sterilized and cleaned prior to such second usage.
5-2-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health Commissioner or some other person designated
by the President to inspect every establishment licensed under this Chapter as
often as may be necessary to insure compliance with this Chapter and all other
applicable provisions of this Code. (ch. LX1; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
5-3-1: License Required
5-3-2: Provisions to be Obeyed
5-3-3: Order - Crowding
5-3-4: Inspections
5-3-5: Indecent Shows
5-3-6: Exhibition of Criminals
5-3-7: Riots
5-3-8: Amusements not Licensed - Fee
5-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate any theatrical, circus, carnival,
exhibition, or public amusement of any kind without having first obtained a
license as required in this Chapter.
5-3-2: PROVISIONS TO BE OBEYED:
Every person, firm or corporation licensed as provided in the preceding Section
shall obey all the provisions in this Chapter in addition to all provisions
which may relate to amusement or theatrical licenses or the premises occupied.
5-3-3: ORDER - CROWDING:
The audience of any amusement, show or theatrical must be orderly and quiet at
all times, and it shall be unlawful for any person attending such amusement,
show or theatrical to create a disturbance in the audience. It shall be
unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any such amusement or show
as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or other risks.
5-3-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Police Department and the Fire Department each to
see that every exhibition, amusement, theatrical or other public show or
amusement is inspected by a member of the Police and of the Fire Department, to
insure conformity with the provisions concerning such amusements.
5-3-5: INDECENT SHOWS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to present, exhibit or conduct any indecent
show, theatrical, play, motion picture, exhibition or other form of public
amusement or show.
5-3-6: EXHIBITION OF CRIMINALS:
It shall be unlawful to exhibit any criminal or the body of any criminal or any
person who shall become notorious because of the commission of a crime, in any
theatrical, exhibit, carnival or other public amusement.
5-3-7: RIOTS:
It shall be unlawful to present any public amusement or show of any kind which
tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or public disturbance.
5-3-8: AMUSEMENTS NOT LICENSED; FEE:
Public amusements not specifically licensed shall obtain a permit and pay a fee
of five dollars ($5.00) per day while operating in the Village.
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC DANCE HALLS
SECTION:
5-4-1: License Required
5-4-2: Application - Fee
5-4-3: Premises - Inspections
5-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or conduct a Public Dance Hall without having obtained
a license as is hereinafter required.
5-4-2: APPLICATION - FEE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk, and shall designate
the place, premises or building intended to be occupied. The fee for a public
dance hall license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one year, and
three dollars ($3.00) for one day; and no license shall be issued without the
payment of the fee.
5-4-3: PREMISES; INSPECTIONS:
The inspections to be made under the supervision of the Police Department and
the Fire Department provided for in Section
5-3-4, shall be made of premises occupied by any person licensed under this
Chapter. It shall be unlawful to conduct a public dance in any hall which is
not equipped with sufficient and adequate exits; and no hall or building which
is not equipped with at least two (2) exits of four feet (4') or more in width
shall be used for a public dance.
CHAPTER 5
CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS
SECTION:
5-5-1: License Required
5-5-2: Application - Fee
5-5-3: Provisions to be Obeyed
5-5-4: Inspection
5-5-5: Cheating
5-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate a circus, carnival, menagerie or merry-go-
round, without having obtained a license as is provided in this Chapter.
5-5-2: APPLICATION; FEE:
The applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk, and shall
specify the place in or on which the circus, carnival, menagery or merry-go-
round is to be conducted. The daily fee for such license shall be fifteen
dollars ($15.00), and two dollars ($2.00) for each concession and no license
shall issue without the payment of the fee.
5-5-3: PROVISIONS TO BE OBEYED:
It shall be the duty of every person licensed under the provisions of this
Chapter to obey the provisions of Chapter 1 of this Title, and all other
provisions relating to circuses, carnivals, menageries and merry-go-rounds, on
the premises occupied.
5-5-4: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the Police Department and the Fire Department to see
that inspections as provided for in Chapter 1 of this Title shall be made of
all performances and of the premises used.
5-5-5: CHEATING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cheat, short change, or otherwise
defraud any person attending or about to attend a circus, carnival, menagerie,
or merry-go-round.
CHAPTER 6
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT MACHINES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definition
5-6-2: Tax
5-6-3: License Required
5-6-4: Application
5-6-5: License Emblem
5-6-6: Display Of License Emblem
5-6-7: Location
5-6-1: DEFINITION:
The term "automatic amusement machine" shall mean any mechanical amusement
machine or device, the operation of which is governed or controlled by the
deposit of a coin, cash, electronic card, voucher, token or any combination
thereof, excepting jukeboxes taxed under other provisions of this Code. The
term shall include photoelectric amusement devices and instruments or
combinations of instruments consisting of a ray of light shooting device and
target equipped with a photoelectric cell or cells, and any machine or device
allowing for the play or simulate the play of a game of chance or video game,
or any table game, including the following devices:
   (A)   Coin-In-Slot-Operated Amusement Device: A machine or other device
activated upon the insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers or any
combination thereof a coin or credit card for self-service use to deliver to
the player or operator thereof no money or property or right to receive money
or property but only the right of operation or play; which machine or other
device shall include but not be limited to pinball machines, shuffleboards,
bowling machines, and any photo-electric or electronic amusement device, which
in its operation shoots or propels an electric light, ray or impulse to a
target, but which machine or other device shall not include coin-operated
jukeboxes, phonograph or merchandise vending machines.
   (B)   Game Of Chance Amusement Device: A machine or other device activated
upon the insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers or any combination
thereof for self-service use, which by application of the element of chance,
may deliver or entitle the person playing or operating the device to receive
cash, premiums, merchandise or tokens, including without limitation machines or
devices that offer games of skill or chance where money or other things of
value can be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate. This
definition shall not include video gaming terminals licensed by the Illinois
Gaming Board and chapter 42 of this title. (Ord. 2018-12, 5-3-2018)
5-6-2: TAX:
An annual tax of sixty dollars ($60.00) is hereby imposed for each amusement
machine or device used for gain or profit from its operation and use and which
is installed, kept, maintained, used or operated within the Village. In the
event that the amusement machine or device contains more than one coin or token
slot which controls the operation of the amusement machine or device, the
annual tax shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00) per coin or token slot per
machine.
Any License Renewal Tax shall be paid on or before May 1 of the year in which a
current license expires. Failure to obtain a license prior to the installation,
operation and use of any machine, or the failure to renew any license on or
before May 1 shall result in a doubling of the applicable License Tax per
machine, provided that no licensee shall pay late licensing fees in excess of
five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2006-02, 2-16-2006)
5-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Upon payment of such tax, the Clerk shall issue a license in the name of the
owner as licensee, authorizing the use of the automatic amusement machine or
device for the license period ending on April 30 following the date of
issuance.
   (A)   No person or entity shall engage directly or indirectly in the
business of delivering, installing, keeping or maintaining automatic amusement
machines or devices for use by any other person or entity for gain or profit
without first having obtained a license to do so.
   (B)   No person or entity shall directly or indirectly install, keep,
maintain, operate or use, or permit the installation, keeping, maintenance,
operation or use of any automatic amusement machine or device for gain or
profit on the person's or entity's premises without first having obtained a
license as herein provided, and all persons or entities permitting another
person or entity to install, keep, maintain, operate or use any automatic
amusement machine or device on or within the person's or entity's premises
shall be responsible for ensuring that all such machines are properly licensed
before permitting same to be installed, kept, maintained, used or operated.
(Ord. 2006-02, 2-16-2006)
5-6-4: APPLICATION:
An application for such license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this Code relating to applications for licenses. In addition
the applicant shall set forth a description of the automatic amusement machine
for which license is sought, which description shall contain the manufacturer's
name, the make, and the factory number thereof. The applicant shall also
disclose if the device for which license is applied is a slot machine or
bagatelle or pigeonhole table, the keeping or use of which is prohibited. (12-
20-45)
5-6-5: LICENSE EMBLEM:
The Clerk shall deliver with each license a sticker license emblem which shall
bear the words "Automatic Amusement Machine" and "Village of River Grove" and
the numerals designating the year for which such license is issued, a
reproduction of the Corporate Seal of the Village, the names of the President
and the Clerk, and a number identical with the number of such license. The
Clerk shall change annually the predominant background colors of such license
emblem. (Ord. 2006-02, 2-16-2006)
5-6-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE EMBLEM:
It shall be the duty of the licensee and owner or operator of the premises in
which the machine is maintained to affix the sticker license emblem in a
conspicuous place on the licensed automatic amusement machine, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to mutilate or remove said emblem from the automatic
amusement machine during the term for which it is licensed. (Ord. 2006-02, 2-
16-2006)
5-6-7: LOCATION:
No person or entity licensed to install, keep, maintain, operate or use any
automatic amusement device or machine on the person's or entity's premises
shall locate any such device or machine within the premises other than in a
location that is clearly open and in plain view of the owner or lessee, their
employees and agents, and the general public at all times any device or machine
is in use and operation. All persons or entities permitting another person or
entity to install, keep, maintain, operate or use any automatic amusement
device or machine on or within the person's or entity's premises shall be
jointly responsible for ensuring that all such devices and machines are
properly located before permitting same to be installed, kept, maintained, used
or operated. The specific location of each amusement device and machine shall
be identified by the applicant on the floor plan submitted with the application
for license, and each specific location of each amusement device or machine
shall be approved by the Village before a license is issued for said device or
machine. During the license period, no device or machine shall be relocated
within the premises without the written approval of the Village. Any person or
entity locating any device or machine in an unapproved location shall subject
the license for said device or machine to revocation by the President.
Automatic amusement devices and machines shall not be installed, kept,
maintained, operated, or used in any premises where the public is generally not
permitted. (Ord. 2006-28, 9-21-2006)
CHAPTER 6.1
ARCADES
SECTION:
5-6.1-1: Definitions
5-6.1-2: License Required
5-6.1-3: Application
5-6.1-4: License Fee; Tax
5-6.1-5: Special Regulations
5-6.1-6: Seizure for Unlawful Use
5-6.1-1: DEFINITIONS:
ARCADE: A public place of amusement that contains six (6) or more automatic
amusement devices.
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, which upon insertion of a coin, slug,
token or similar object may be operated by the public generally for use as a
game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not registering a score and shall
include but not be limited to such devices as juke boxes, marble machines,
pinball machines, movie and video booths or stands and all games, operations or
transactions similar thereto under whatever name by which they may be
indicated. Incidental mechanical grab devices and bingo devices are deemed
gambling devices and are therefore prohibited.
5-6.1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to install, use or permit the installation or use of six (6) or
more automatic amusement devices at any place unless the same be licensed as an
arcade and the annual tax paid currently for each device proposed to be
installed or used therein.
5-6.1-3: APPLICATION:
An application for such license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this Code relating to applications for licenses. In addition
the applicant shall set forth a description of the automatic amusement device
for which license is sought, which description shall contain the manufacturer's
name, the make, and the factory number thereof.
5-6.1-4: LICENSE FEE; TAX:
The annual fee for a license required herein shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
An annual tax of fifty dollars ($50.00) is hereby imposed upon each automatic
amusement device used for gain or profit from the operation of such business.
5-6.1-5: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
The business and premises licensed hereunder shall be subject to the following
regulations:
   (A)   An arcade shall not be operated within one thousand eight hundred feet
(1,800') of the property line of an elementary school.
   (B)   An attendant twenty one (21) years of age or older shall be on the
premises during business hours.
   (C)   Hours of operation shall be ten thirty o'clock (10:30) A.M. to ten
thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M.
   (D)   The license does not contemplate the sale or presence of books,
movies, literature or similar items.
   (E)   Music may be provided so long as it is not audible outside the
licensed premises.
   (F)   Each device shall be allocated a space within the premises equal to
five (5) square feet for each one (1) square foot of machine. Adequate space
shall be also provided for a service area and free movement of persons within
the premises.
   (G)   An arcade may not be operated in conjunction with another business
unless separated therefrom by a permanent enclosure.
5-6.1-6: SEIZURE FOR UNLAWFUL USE:
In addition to general code penalties which are applicable for violation of
this Chapter, if the Mayor, Chief of Police, or their duly authorized
enforcement officer shall have a reasonable basis for believing an amusement
device is tax delinquent, or is being used for gambling purposes, or has a
knock-off circuit or permits more than ten (10) replays or free games, said
device may be seized by any duly authorized enforcement official, followed by
an administrative hearing with notice to the owner within seven (7) days of
such seizure for the purpose of reviewing the appropriateness of the seizure,
and held until such time as the owner of such device pays the delinquent tax,
reimburses the Village for actual cartage cost incurred in the seizure and pays
to the Village fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each day or part of day said device
has been in storage. (Ord. 1981-13, 1981)
CHAPTER 7
JUKE BOXES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definition
5-7-2: Tax
5-7-3: License Required
5-7-4: Application
5-7-5: License Emblem
5-7-1: DEFINITION:
The term "juke boxes" shall mean any phonograph, music box, combination motion
picture and sound machine, or other instrument or device capable of reproducing
any vocal or instrumental sounds, which is governed or controlled by the
deposit of a coin or token. (12-20-45)
5-7-2: TAX:
An annual tax of twenty five dollars ($25.00) is hereby imposed upon each juke
box used for gain or profit from operation. (Ord. 1967-1; 1-19-67)
5-7-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Upon payment of such tax the Clerk shall issue a license in the name of the
owner as licensee, authorizing the use of the juke box for the license period
ending on the 31st day of December following the date of issuance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or install a juke box within the
Village for use by any other person for gain or profit from operation unless
the tax thereon has been paid for the current year.
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain or use, or
permit the installation, keeping, maintenance, or use upon his premises of any
juke box upon which the tax has not been paid and for which a license has not
been issued for the current year.
5-7-4: APPLICATION:
An application for such license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this Code relating to applications for licenses. In addition
the applicant shall set forth a description of the juke box for which license
is sought, which description shall contain the manufacturer's name, the make,
and factory number thereof.
5-7-5: LICENSE EMBLEM:
The Clerk shall deliver with each license a sticker license emblem which shall
bear the words "Juke Box" and "Village of River Grove" and the numerals
designating the year for which such license is issued, the names of the
President and Clerk, and a number identical with the number of such license.
The Clerk shall change annually the predominant colors of such license emblem.
It shall be the duty of the licensee to affix the sticker license emblem in a
conspicuous place on the licensed juke box, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to mutilate or remove said emblem from the juke box during the year for
which it is licensed. (12-20-45)
CHAPTER 8
BOWLING ALLEYS
SECTION:
5-8-1: License Required
5-8-2: Application
5-8-3: Fee
5-8-4: Inspections
5-8-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall manage, conduct, operate or maintain a Bowling Alley, without
having first obtained a license therefor.
5-8-2: APPLICATION:
Applications for a license as herein required shall be made to the Clerk, and
shall state the name of the person which proposes to manage, conduct operate or
maintain such bowling alley together with the residence of such person and if a
corporation the names and addresses of its President, Vice President, Secretary
and Treasurer. Such application shall further state the address of the place
proposed to be used by such applicant and the number of bowling alleys to be
operated at such place.
5-8-3: FEE:
The fee for a license as herein required shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each
bowling alley to be operated or maintained at such place, for one year.
5-8-4: INSPECTIONS:
Upon receipt of the application for a license to operate a Bowling Alley, the
Clerk shall, prior to the issuance of a license, cause such an inspection of
the premises to be made as shall in his judgment be necessary to assure
compliance with the provisions of this Code.
In addition, periodic inspections, to be made at least once a year, shall be
made by the proper officers of the Village to assure continuing compliance with
this Code. (11-18-54)
CHAPTER 9
BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
SECTION:
5-9-1: License Required
5-9-2: Application
5-9-3: Fee
5-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall manage, conduct, operate or maintain a billiard or pool hall or
billiard or pool tables for gain or hire without having first obtained a
license so to do.
5-9-2: APPLICATION:
Applications for a license as herein required shall be made in writing to the
Clerk and shall state, in addition to the requirements of any other applicable
provisions, the name of the person or persons, firm or corporation which
proposes to manage, conduct, operate or maintain such billiard or pool hall or
billiard or pool tables, together with the residences of such person or
persons, firm or corporation, and if a corporation, the names and addresses of
its president, vice president, secretary and treasurer. Such application shall
further state the address at which said applicant proposes to conduct such
business and the number of billiard or pool tables to be operated.
5-9-3: FEE:
The fee for a license required by this Chapter shall be ten dollars ($10.00)
for each billiard or pool table to be operated or maintained at such place, for
one year.
Upon receipt of the application for a license required by this Chapter, the
Clerk shall, prior to the issuance thereof, cause such an inspection of the
premises to be made as shall in his judgment be necessary to assure compliance
with the laws of this Village.
In addition, periodic inspections, to be made at least once a year, shall be
made by the proper officers of the Village to assure continuing compliance with
the provisions of this Code. (2-5-59)
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC GARAGES
SECTION:
5-10-1: License Required - Fee
5-10-2: Smoking
5-10-3: Premises - Building
5-10-4: Changing Identification Marks
5-10-5: Inspections
5-10-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall operate or maintain a Public Garage without having first
obtained a license therefor as is provided in this Chapter. Application for
such licenses shall be made in writing to the Clerk, and shall state the
location of the Garage and the number of cars which can be accommodated
therein. The annual fee for Public Garages shall be as follows; twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for twenty five (25) car capacity or less, one dollar ($1.00)
for each car capacity over twenty five (25). The annual license shall not be
issued until the fee is paid.
5-10-2: SMOKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or light a cigarette, pipe or
cigar in any Public Garage.
5-10-3: PREMISES; BUILDING:
It shall be unlawful to maintain any Public Garage in a frame building, or in
any building used for church, school or theatre purposes. The premises of every
garage must be kept clean and as free as possible from inflammable waste
material.
5-10-4: CHANGING IDENTIFICATION MARKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to change the identification marks on the
engine of any car or automobile in an public garage. And it shall be unlawful
to change the license tags on such cars except in accordance with the register
of Motor Vehicles kept by the Secretary of the State of Illinois.
5-10-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Police Department and the Fire Department to see
that every Public Garage is inspected as frequently as may be necessary to
insure compliance with all the Code provisions relating thereto. Any police
officer shall be permitted at all reasonable hours to view every car stored or
kept in any public garage, and it shall be unlawful to hinder any such
inspection or to conceal any car or motor vehicle from such inspection. (Ch.
XXXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 11
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SHOP
SECTION:
5-11-1: License Required - Fee
5-11-2: Smoking
5-11-3: Premises - Building
5-11-4: Changing Identification Marks
5-11-5: Inspections
5-11-6: Filling Station Defined
5-11-7: License Required
5-11-8: Application for License - Special
5-11-9: Inspection
5-11-10: License Not Transferable
5-11-11: Change of Location
5-11-12: Storage of Inflammable Liquids
5-11-13: Smoking Prohibited
5-11-14: License Fees
5-11-15: Number of Licenses Limited
5-11-16: Repairs Within Enclosed Premises
5-11-17: Parking of Vehicles
5-11-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall operate or maintain an automobile repair shop or accessory
dealers without having first obtained a license therefor as is provided in this
Section. Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Clerk,
and shall state the location of the automobile repair shop and accessory dealer
and the number of cars which can be accommodated therein. The annual fee for
automobile repair shop and accessory dealers shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00).
The annual license shall not be issued until the fee is paid.
5-11-2: SMOKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or light a cigarette, pipe or
cigar in any automobile repair shop.
5-11-3: PREMISES; BUILDING:
It shall be unlawful to maintain any automobile repair shop in a frame
building, or in any building used for church, school or theatre purposes. The
premises of every automobile repair shop must be kept clean and as free as
possible from inflammable waste material.
5-11-4: CHANGING IDENTIFICATION MARKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, to change the identification marks on the
engine of any car or automobile in any automobile repair shop. And it shall be
unlawful to change the license tags on such cars except in accordance with the
register of Motor Vehicles kept by the Secretary of the State of Illinois.
5-11-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Police Department and the Fire Department to see
that every automobile repair shop and accessary dealer is inspected as
frequently as may be necessary to insure compliance with all the Code
provisions relating thereto. Any Police Officer shall be permitted at all
reasonable hours to view every car stored or kept in any automobile repair
shop, and it shall be unlawful to hinder any such inspection or to conceal any
car or Motor Vehicle from such inspection.
5-11-6: FILLING STATION DEFINED:
The words "filling station", as used in this Chapter, shall be held to mean and
are hereby defined as meaning any building, structure, premises, enclosure or
other place where a container or containers, tank or tanks, either portable or
stationary, and containing ether, carbon bisulphate, gasoline, naphtha,
bensole, hydrocarbon (gas-drips), liquefied petroleum gas, acetone, kerosene,
turpentine, or other inflammable liquids, having a flash point below one
hundred eighty seven degrees Fahrenheit (187°F.) are kept or located for the
purpose of selling, offering for sale, or distributing any such liquids from
such containers, tank or tanks; provided, however, that the provisions of this
Chapter shall not apply to any place where such inflammable liquids are kept or
sold for medicinal purposes only.
5-11-7: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall manage, conduct, operate, or carry on the business of a filling
station without first having obtained a license therefor, as hereinafter
provided.
5-11-8: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The application for such license for the business of managing, conducting,
operating or carrying on a filling station shall conform to the general
provisions of this Chapter relating to applications for license and shall
specify the location of the building, structure, premises, enclosure, or other
place in which it is proposed to keep such filling station, and the capacity or
capacities in gallons of the container or containers, tank or tanks. Every such
application shall be approved by the Chief of Police and Chief of the Fire
Department before a license shall be issued.
5-11-9: INSPECTION:
All filling stations shall be conducted and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of this Code with regard to Fire Prevention and storage of
inflammable liquids and shall be inspected by the Chief of the Fire Department
or his duly authorized representative at least once every year.
5-11-10: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
No license granted under the provisions of this Chapter shall be assigned or
transferred to any other person other than the licensee named therein to do
business or act under such license.
5-11-11: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
If any person licensed under the provisions of this Chapter shall, before the
expiration of such license, desire to change the location of the business
conducted thereunder, the licensee shall notify the Village Comptroller and
shall furnish all of the information which is required to be furnished on an
original application for license. Every such application for change of location
shall be approved by the Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department
before a change in location shall be authorized.
5-11-12: STORAGE OF INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
Except as otherwise permitted by this Code, storage of inflammable liquids
shall be outside of buildings.
5-11-13: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit smoking in any filling station.
5-11-14: LICENSE FEES:
The annual license fee for each filling station shall be as follows:
 
For the first 1,065 gallon capacity tank or tanks or less               $15.00
For each additional 1,065 gallon capacity tank or tanks or any fraction $10.00
thereof
In no event shall the annual license fee for filling station exceed the $25.00
sum of
 
5-11-15: NUMBER OF LICENSES LIMITED:
The number of filling station licenses that shall be issued in the Village is
hereby limited to eleven (11). (9-5-57)
5-11-16: REPAIRS WITHIN ENCLOSED PREMISES:
All repairing, cleaning or other servicing of motor vehicles at repair shops or
filling stations licensed hereunder, except the retail sale of gasoline from
approved pumps at filling stations, shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings, and it is unlawful to suffer or permit any motor vehicle
which is in a partially or wholly dismantled condition, or from which parts
have been removed, or to suffer or permit any new, used or discarded parts of
motor vehicles, to be or remain on or about the exterior portions of any
licensed premises. (Ord. 1966-7; 4-21-66)
5-11-17: PARKING OF VEHICLES:
All motor vehicles in the custody of a licensee hereunder for any purpose
contemplated in this Section or for sale if licensee is so licensed, or for
accommodation use by customers shall be parked on the licensed premises. A
licensee shall not suffer or permit any such vehicle to be parked on any public
way. (Ord. 1967-12; 6-1-67; Eff. 6-10-67)
CHAPTER 12
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
SECTION:
5-12-1: License Fee - Purpose
5-12-2: Report to Village Clerk
5-12-3: Suspension of Business
5-12-4: Treasurer of Fire Department to Receive Funds
5-12-5: Fire Department Maintenance
5-12-6: Fire Department Treasurer to Give Bond
5-12-1: LICENSE FEE; PURPOSE:
All corporations, companies and associations, engaged in the fire insurance
business, not incorporated under the Laws of the State of Illinois, which are
doing business in the Village shall pay the sum of two per cent (2%) of the
gross receipts from premiums on fire insurance policies, as license fee for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department of the Village.
5-12-2: REPORT TO VILLAGE CLERK:
Any person who shall act for and on behalf of such corporation, company or
association, as its agent shall on or before the 15th day of July of each and
every year render to the Clerk a full, true and just account verified by oath,
of all the premiums which during the period ending on the 1st day of July
preceding such report shall have been received on behalf of such corporation,
company or association, shall specify in such report the amounts received as
Fire Insurance premiums and shall also pay to the Treasurer the said sum of two
per cent (2%) on all fire insurance premiums received for the corporation,
company or association represented, and which are severally chargeable by
virtue of the provisions of this Chapter.
5-12-3: SUSPENSION OF BUSINESS:
It shall be unlawful for any corporation, company or association in default of
the payment of the license fee hereinbefore provided, to transact any business
of fire insurance until it shall have fully complied with the provision of this
Chapter, however, this provision shall not relieve any corporation, company or
association from payment of any risk that may be taken in violation thereof.
5-12-4: TREASURER OF FIRE DEPARTMENT TO RECEIVE FUNDS:
The Clerk shall immediately upon receipt of license fees, provided for under
this Chapter, turn the same over to the Treasurer, who shall within thirty (30)
days from the receipt thereof, turn the same over to the duly elected treasurer
of the Fire Department.
5-12-5: FIRE DEPARTMENT MAINTENANCE:
Said license fees shall be used by the Fire Department for its maintenance.
5-12-6: FIRE DEPARTMENT TREASURER TO GIVE BOND:
The Treasurer of the Fire Department shall furnish bond in the sum of one
thousand dollars ($1000.00) with good and sufficient surety to the Village.
(Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 13
FUEL OIL DEALERS
SECTION:
5-13-1: Fuel Oil Dealer Defined
5-13-2: License Required
5-13-3: Fee-License Period
5-13-4: License Emblems for Vehicles
5-13-5: Special Regulations
5-13-6: Frontage Consents
5-13-1: FUEL OIL DEALER DEFINED:
A Fuel Oil Dealer is hereby defined to mean any person, firm or corporation who
stores fuel oil for the purpose of sale or conveys fuel oil in any vehicle for
the purpose of sale.
5-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for an person to engage in the business of Fuel Oil
Dealer, as herein defined, without first having obtained a license so to do as
herein provided. (Ch. XXXII; Revised Ord. 1939)
5-13-3: FEE; LICENSE PERIOD:
The annual license fee for a license hereunder shall be fifteen dollars
($15.00) for each separate location, place or premises where the dealer is
engaged in such business, plus one dollar ($1.00) additional, annually, for
each wagon, truck or other vehicle used by the licensee in connection with said
business.
All licenses issued under this Chapter shall expire on April 30th of the year
in which the same are granted, and all serial number emblems or stickers issued
and delivered in connection therewith shall become null and void upon such
expiration date. (11-20-47).
5-13-4: LICENSE EMBLEMS FOR VEHICLES:
The Clerk, at the time of the issuance and delivery of a license hereunder,
shall issue and deliver to the licensee as many serial number license emblems
or stickers, upon the payment of the fees required hereunder, as such licensee
requires, allotting one such emblem or stickers to each vehicle used by said
licensee in connection with said business, which emblems or stickers shall have
plainly imprinted or stamped thereon the year in which issued and the words
"Licensed Fuel Oil Dealer's Vehicle, Village of River Grove."
Like additional emblems or stickers shall be issued and delivered to said
licensee upon the payment of the required license fees therefor, for each
vehicle that may be added to said licensee's equipment and used in connection
with said business, at any time during the current year for which said license
was issued. Such licensee shall place, or cause to be placed, such emblem or
sticker, plainly exposed to public view, and such emblem or sticker shall
remain during the license period for which issued, unless sooner annulled or
voided.
5-13-5: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
All places of business of Fuel Oil Dealers shall be kept in a clean condition,
free as far as practicable from all gases, vapor or the operation of motors or
other machinery. Sufficient and separate toilet facilities shall be provided
for employees. Said premises shall at all times be kept free from rags, waste
paper and other accumulations of waste materials, Smoking shall be prohibited
thereon. All such premises and all vehicles used in connection with the
business of Fuel Oil Dealer's and all tank wagons or other vehicles used for
the purpose of conveying fuel oil shall be conducted, maintained and operated
in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, and shall be inspected by
the Division Fire Marshal in charge of Fire Prevention or his duly authorized
representative at least once every year.
It shall be unlawful for any Fuel Oil Dealer to refill any fuel oil storage
tank used in connection with an oil burning heater, boiler or furnace, unless
such storage tank is equipped with an automatic or return vent pipe or unless
the filled pipe of such storage tank is equipped with a screw or automatic cap.
It shall be the duty of every such dealer after refilling any fuel oil storage
tank to replace the screw cap on such filled pipe or if equipped with an
automatic cap to see to it that said filled pipe cap is properly closed.
5-13-6: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any Fuel Oil Dealer to install a tank or tanks for the
storage of any fuel oil without first obtaining written consents of property
owners in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ch. XXXII; Rev. Ord.
1939)
CHAPTER 14
FLORISTS
SECTION:
5-14-1: Florist Defined
5-14-2: Application for License; Special Requirements
5-14-3: Sanitary Requirements
5-14-4: License Fee
5-14-1: FLORIST DEFINED:
For the purpose of this Chapter the term Florist shall be construed to mean any
person, firm or corporation operating, maintaining or conducting the business
of selling or offering or keeping for sale flowers and plants of any and all
varieties and description in any building, room, stand, enclosure, premises,
place, establishment or any part of same.
No person shall manage, conduct, operate or carry on the business of a Florist
without first having obtained a license therefor.
5-14-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
Any person desiring to operate, maintain or conduct the business of Florist
shall make written application for a license so to do which shall conform to
the general requirements of this Chapter relating to applications for licenses,
and shall set forth the location at which it is desired to conduct such
business and a description of the place or premises where such business is to
be conducted.
5-14-3: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Every establishment, place or premises where the business of a Florist is
conducted, managed or carried on shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition satisfactory to the Commissioner of Health. No decayed, decaying,
unwholesome, contaminated or diseased flowers, plants or other things shall be
allowed to remain in or about said establishment, and the Health Commissioner
is hereby authorized to be installed proper receptacles for the disposition of
such decayed, decaying, unwholesome, contaminated or diseased flowers, plants
or other things that may be in or about said premises, or establishment, and
said place, premises or establishment shall be at all times kept in a clean,
sanitary condition satisfactory to the Commissioner of Health.
5-14-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for Florists, shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00). (Rev.
Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 15
REGULATION OF POSSESSION AND SALES OF TOBACCO, TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-15-1: Definitions
5-15-2: License Required
5-15-3: License Application
5-15-4: License Fee
5-15-5: Prohibited Sales, Delivery; Signs
5-15-6: Purchase By Underage Persons Prohibited
5-15-7: Possession By Underage Persons Prohibited
5-15-8: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
5-15-9: Vending Machines; Locking Devices
5-15-10: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
5-15-11: Sanitary And Health Requirements
5-15-12: Inspections
5-15-13: Suspension, Revocation Of License; Fines; Costs
5-15-14: Use Of Premises After Revocation
5-15-15: Penalties
5-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device, such as an e-cigarette, not
consisting of or containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the
body of nicotine, whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling,
snorting, sniffing, or by other means. This does not include tobacco products
as that term is defined in this section or any product approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration as a non-tobacco product for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, a tobacco dependence product, or for other medicinal
purposes.
E-CIGARETTE: An electronic device that typically includes a mouthpiece, a
heating element or atomizer, a battery, and electronic circuits; provides a gas
derived from a liquid that includes nicotine, propylene glycol, or similar
substance and perhaps other substances; and is inhaled by a user in a manner
that simulates or resembles smoking. The term "e-cigarette" includes all manner
of these devices, regardless of the details of a device's appearance or
marketed name, that are manufactured to resemble a cigarette, cigar, pipe, or
other smoking device. The term "e-cigarette" includes the cartridges and
components of an e-cigarette, individually or in any combination.
RETAIL TOBACCO DEALER: Any person selling, offering for sale, exposing for sale
or keeping, with the intention of selling or exchanging at retail, cigarettes,
cigars, snuff, chewing tobacco, tobacco in any other form, or alternative
nicotine products.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance that contains tobacco or tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipes, pipe tobacco, snuff,
smoking tobacco, chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco or other smokeless tobacco.
UNDERAGE PERSONS: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic self- service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the business of selling or otherwise
distributing, promoting, or advertising tobacco products or alternative
nicotine products, to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give away, deliver
or to keep with the intention of selling at retail, giving away or delivering
tobacco products or alternative nicotine products within the Village without
having first obtained a tobacco dealer's license therefor pursuant to this
chapter. This license shall be in addition to any other license required by
chapter 1 of this title. The transfer of any license issued hereunder is hereby
expressly prohibited. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Application for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of
this title. The Village Clerk, through the Director of Police Services, or any
other Village official designated by the Village Clerk, shall make or cause to
be made such investigations as deemed necessary to determine the character and
reputation of any applicant for a retail tobacco dealer's license and to
determine whether said applicant is a proper person to be entrusted with the
sale of cigarettes, cigars, tobacco in any form, or alternative nicotine
products. No license shall be issued to any applicant who is not found to be a
person of good character and reputation, or to any firm, corporation,
partnership or association which is not represented in the Village by a person
found to be of good character and reputation. The Village official charged with
making said investigation shall indicate on the application for license the
results of the investigation and a recommendation as to whether the Village
shall either approve or deny the applied for license. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-4: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for a tobacco dealer's license shall be as set forth in chapter
1 of this title. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-5: PROHIBITED SALES, DELIVERY; SIGNS:
   (A)   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, including any
licensee, to sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products to any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years.
   (B)   Signage: Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided
for herein shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display of
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, and/or upon every vending
machine which offers tobacco products or alternative nicotine products for
sale. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
The sale of tobacco products or alternative nicotine products to or by persons
under twenty- one years of age is prohibited by law under penalty of fines of
up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). Persons under twenty-one years
of age who purchase or possess tobacco products or alternative nicotine
products or misrepresent their age by any means whatsoever are subject to
assessment of fines of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
subsequent offense.
The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background, said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
   (C)   Minimum Age To Sell Tobacco Products Or Alternative Nicotine Products:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee and/or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit
any person under twenty one (21) years of age to sell tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products in any licensed premises. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-
2019)
5-15-6: PURCHASE BY UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
purchase or use alternative nicotine products or tobacco products, cigarette
papers or paraphernalia that is designed for the smoking or ingestion of
tobacco products, or to misrepresent his or her age, or to use any false or
altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-7: POSSESSION BY UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
possess any tobacco products or alternative nicotine products; provided that it
shall not be a violation of this section for a person under twenty one (21)
years of age to use any tobacco products or alternative nicotine products
where:
   (A)   Such use takes place under the direction, supervision and approval of
the parent, parents, or legal guardian of such person; and
   (B)   Such use takes place in the privacy of a home or established place of
worship or tribal meeting place; provided, however, where such use takes place
in an established place of worship or tribal meeting place such use shall not
be a violation only where use is in the performance of a religious service or
tribal ceremony and the religious group or tribe is legally established and
recognized by the State. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-8: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of selling
or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products, or any employee or agent of any such licensee or
person, in the course of such licensee's or person's business, to distribute,
give away or deliver tobacco products or alternative nicotine products free of
charge to any person on any public right-of-way, park, or playground or on
other property owned by the Village, any school district, any park district or
any public library. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-9: VENDING MACHINES; LOCKING DEVICES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer to sell, give
away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away or
delivering tobacco products or alternative nicotine products by use of a
vending machine, unless such vending machine is equipped with a manual,
electric or electronic locking device controlled by the licensee so as to
prevent its operation by persons under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away, or display
tobacco products or alternative nicotine products for sale at any location
where the consumer can acquire those products through self-service. All tobacco
products and/or alternative nicotine products will be displayed behind a sales/
service counter so that no consumer can access tobacco products or alternative
nicotine products without assistance by licensee or an employee of the
licensee.
   (C)   Any premises where access by persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years is prohibited by law, or premises where the public is generally not
permitted and where vending machines are strictly for the use of employees of
the business located at such premises, shall be exempt from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section; provided that any vending machine must be
placed at a distance of a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from any entrance
to the premises and at such a location visible by the owner or lessee, or their
employees or agents during the operation of the vending machine. (Ord. 2019-13,
5-2-2019)
5-15-10: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee; and such violation shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord.
2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-11: SANITARY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be the duty of any person or entity licensed hereunder, upon the
demand of the Village Health Officer, to furnish for inspection samples of all
cigarettes, cigars or tobacco or alternative nicotine products in any form sold
or offered for sale by the licensee, and it shall be the duty of such person to
keep the premises and buildings in a clean and sanitary condition. No person
shall expose for sale, sell or offer for sale to any person, directly or
indirectly, within the Village, any cigarettes, cigars or tobacco or
alternative nicotine products in any form containing opium, morphine, jimson
weed, belladonna, strychnine, cocaine or any other poisonous or deleterious
drug or drugs. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-12: INSPECTIONS:
The Village Health Officer shall inspect and examine, or cause to be inspected
and examined, as often as is deemed necessary, all places where cigarettes,
cigars or tobacco or alternative nicotine products in any form are licensed to
be sold at retail within the Village, and all such cigarettes, cigars or
tobacco or alternative nicotine products in any form, to determine whether such
places are in compliance with all applicable laws of the State and provisions
of this Code. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-13: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES; COSTS:
The Village President shall be charged with the administration of this chapter.
The Village President may suspend or revoke any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter if the President determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter. In lieu of suspension or
revocation of a license, the President may instead levy a fine on the licensee.
The fine imposed shall not exceed seven hundred dollars ($750.00) for each
violation. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
No such license shall be suspended or revoked and no licensee shall be fined
except after a public hearing by the Village President or the President's
designee, with a minimum seven (7) day written notice to the licensee,
affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend against the charges
contained in such notice. For purposes of this section, the notice period shall
begin the day following delivery of the notice of hearing by certified mail or
by personal service.
If the Village President or the designee determines after such hearing that the
license should be revoked or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, a
written order stating the reason for such determination and either the amount
of the fine, the period of suspension or that the license has been revoked
shall be entered, and a copy of such order shall be served upon the licensee
within seven (7) days after the hearing.
In addition to any fine, suspension or revocation, any licensee determined to
have violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall reimburse the Village
for the costs of the hearing on such violation. The Village President shall
determine the costs incurred by the Village for said hearing, including, but
not limited to: court reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records,
attorney fees, the cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders and all
other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the Village or such lesser sum as the
Village President may allow.
The licensee shall pay said fines and costs to the General Corporate Fund of
the Village within thirty (30) days of the entry of said written order. Failure
to pay said fines and costs within thirty (30) days of the entry of such
written order shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and may
be cause for license suspension or revocation, or the levy of an additional
fine. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-14: USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION:
When any license shall have been revoked for cause, no license shall be granted
for that premises for a period of six (6) months thereafter for the conduct of
the business of selling "tobacco products", as defined in section
5-15-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
5-15-15: PENALTIES:
The penalties provided in sections
5-15-13 and
5-15-14 of this chapter shall be in addition to any other penalty provided for
in this Code, including without limitation the following:
   (A)   Violation Of Restrictions: Any person who violates section
5-15-5,
5-15-8,
5-15-9,
5-15-11, or
5-15-12 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in accordance with the
general penalty set forth in title XI, chapter 1 of this Code for each and
every offense, or alternatively shall be subject to a fine of seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense.
   (B)   Purchase Or Possession By Underage Persons: Any person who violates
section
5-15-6 or
5-15-7 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for each and every offense.
   (C)   Alternative Penalty For Underage Persons: If the offense is related to
section
5-15-6 or
5-15-7 of this chapter and the underage person is a first-time offender and is
enrolled as a full-time student at a school located in the Village, the court
or Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer may assign the offender to a
diversion and education program that is approved by the applicable school. The
violator shall pay for the cost of the program. (Ord. 2019-13, 5-2-2019)
CHAPTER 16
HARDWARE STORES
SECTION:
5-16-1: License Required
5-16-2: Application
5-16-3: License Fee
5-16-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct what is commonly known as a paint, varnish, oils, wall
paper and hardware store, without first obtaining a license therefor as
hereinafter provided.
5-16-2: APPLICATION:
For the purpose of this Chapter each of the several businesses mentioned in
Section
5-16-1 shall be licensed as a paint and hardware store, and the owner or owners
thereof shall make application to the Clerk on a blank furnished by him for a
license to conduct such store, and shall state the name and address of the
applicant and the place where the proposed business is to be carried on. The
applicant shall file with the Clerk such application together with the full
annual license fee. (Ch XXXV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
5-16-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a license required by this Chapter shall be fifty dollars.
($50.00). (1959)
CHAPTER 17
DRUGGISTS
SECTION:
5-17-1: Retail Drug Stores Defined; License Required
5-17-2: Application
5-17-3: Revocation
5-17-4: License Fee
5-17-5: Sanitary Requirements
5-17-6: Permit to Sell Liquor; Penalty
5-17-7: Separate Licenses for Cigarettes, etc.
5-17-8: Sale of Liquor to Minors
5-17-1: RETAIL DRUG STORES DEFINED; LICENSE REQUIRED:
For the purpose of this Chapter a retail drug store is hereby defined to mean
any building, room, place or establishment where prescriptions for drugs or
medicines are filled or compounded, or where medical preparations or remedies
for human consumption containing more than one half of one per cent of alcohol
or potent or dangerous drugs are sold at retail or are manufactured for sale at
retail, or where medicines, drugs, chemicals, therapeutic preparations,
proprietary medicines, toilet articles or other articles commonly sold in drug
stores are sold, offered for sale or kept with the intention of selling at
retail or for supply to physicians, dentists, veterinarians, or other
practitioners. No person shall establish, maintain or operate a retail drug
store without having obtained a license as hereinafter provided.
5-17-2: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring a license to operate or conduct a retail drug store as
defined in the preceding section, shall make written application therefor,
which shall conform to the general provisions of this Chapter relating to
application for licenses, and which shall state the place where it is proposed
to conduct such business. The Commissioner of Health shall cause an
investigation to be made of the premises to be used for such purpose, and shall
ascertain whether each of the persons who will have charge of the mixing and
handling of prescriptions and of drugs and chemicals to be used, handled and
sold in such proposed drug store, have the proper qualifications and are duly
registered under the laws of the State of Illinois as registered pharmacists.
Said Commissioner shall thereupon make a report to the Board of Trustees,
containing a recommendation for or against the issuance of such license. In
case the Commissioner of Health shall make a favorable recommendation, the
President and Board of Trustees may, in its discretion, upon the payment of the
license fee herein provided for, issue a license to such applicant to conduct a
drug store at the place named in said application. Such license shall not
authorize the sale of cigarettes or the sale of liquor unless the licensee is
duly licensed for that purpose by the proper governmental authorities.
5-17-3: REVOCATION:
Such license may be revoked at any time upon proof that the licensee has
violated any Statute of the State of Illinois or any provision of this Code
relating to the business of conducting a retail drug store. The conviction of
such licensee for any such violation in a court of competent jurisdiction,
shall be deemed sufficient proof to warrant the revocation of a license granted
hereunder, but the President and Board of Trustees may revoke any such license
in their discretion without such conviction being had.
5-17-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for such retail drug store as defined in Section 1,
shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00). (11-20-47)
5-17-5: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, operate or conduct any drug
store in any unsanitary condition. For the purpose of this Chapter, unsanitary
conditions shall be deemed to exist if drugs, medicines or food preparations in
the process of production, preparation, storing, sale or distribution, are not
securely protected from dust, dirt or flies or other foreign or injurious
contamination, or if refuse, dirt or waste products are allowed to accumulate,
or if measures, containers or other utensils or apparatus are not kept clean,
or if the clothing of persons employed in the handling or preparation of drugs,
medicines or food preparations is unclean, or if no adequate toilet facilities,
soap and clean towels are provided for such employees.
5-17-6: PERMIT TO SELL LIQUOR; PENALTY:
No person engaged in the business of selling drugs or keeping what is commonly
known as a drug store, shall sell or give away or in any manner deal in any
vinous, spirituous, ardent, intoxicating or fermented liquors, by himself,
agent or servant, without a legal permit for that purpose. Any person obtaining
a permit as aforesaid, who shall sell or give away any vinous, spirituous,
ardent, intoxicating or fermented liquors, including alcohol, for any other
purpose than medicinal, mechanical, sacramental or chemical purposes, or who
permits any such liquors to be drunk upon the premises or in any drug store, or
who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or neglects or refuses to
comply therewith, for the first offense shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), for the second offense shall be fined not more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00).
5-17-7: SEPARATE LICENSES FOR CIGARETTES, ETC:
Any person licensed as a retail drug store shall not be permitted to sell
cigarettes or ice cream unless obtaining licenses therefor.
5-17-8: SALE OF LIQUOR TO MINORS:
No person owning or operating a drug store shall permit any minor to drink
therein, intoxicating drinks of any kind, nor shall any such person, sell, give
away or deliver to any minor, any malt, vinous, spirituous or intoxicating
liquor for his own use or for the use of any other person, either to be drunk
on the premises or carried away. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 18
RETAIL MERCHANDISE STORES
SECTION:
5-18-1: Definition
5-18-2: Application
5-18-3: License Fee
5-18-1: DEFINITION:
No person shall conduct, operate or maintain what is commonly known as a
Department Store, General Store, Variety Store, Five and Ten Cent Store,
Haberdashery, Shoe Store, Shoe Repairing Store, Dry Goods Store, New or Second-
Hand Furniture Store or Household Appliance Store without having first obtained
a license so to do.
5-18-2: APPLICATION:
For the purpose of this Chapter, each of the businesses mentioned in the
preceding paragraph shall be licensed as a Retail Merchandise Store, and every
person desiring to engage in such business shall make application to the Clerk,
which shall conform to the general provisions of this Code relating to
applications for licenses, and to the provisions of the general licensing
Chapter.
5-18-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a license required by this Chapter shall be:
Shoe Repairing Store         $15.00
New or Used Furniture Store      50.00
Household Appliance Store      50.00
Others not specifically provided for   15.00
(1959)
CHAPTER 19
FACTORIES
SECTION:
5-19-1: Definition
5-19-2: License Required
5-19-3: Application for License
5-19-4: License Fee
5-19-5: License Period
5-19-6: Sanitary Requirements
5-19-1: DEFINITION:
The term "Factory" or "Workshop" as used in this Chapter shall be construed to
mean any building, room, enclosure, premise, place or establishment where any
merchandise, goods, wares, commodities or products are manufactured, made,
finished, printed, engraved, worked on, altered, repaired, polished, cleaned,
renovated or assorted, in whole or in part, for sale or for wages or
compensation.
5-19-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall manage, conduct, operate or carry on a factory or workshop
where merchandise, goods, wares, commodities, or products are manufactured,
made, finished, printed, engraved, worked on, altered, repaired, polished,
cleaned, renovated, or assorted, in whole or in part, for sale or for wages or
compensation, without first having obtained a license so to do, and a separate
license shall be required for each separate place of business.
5-19-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person who shall desire to manage, conduct, operate, or carry on a factory
or workshop where merchandise, goods, wares, commodities, or products are
manufactured, made, finished, printed, engraved, worked on, altered, repaired,
polished, cleaned, renovated or assorted, in whole or in part, for sale or for
wages of compensation, shall make an application in writing to the Village
Collector, which application shall state the name of the person carrying on, or
proposing to manage, conduct, operate, or carry on such business and the
residence of the person together, and if it be a corporation, the names and
residences of its principal officers, together with the address of the place of
business proposed to be used by such applicant. Such application shall also
give a description of the premises and also the number of employees proposed to
be engaged in such factory or workshop. Any applicant who shall desire to
conduct or operate more than one such factory or workshop shall make separate
application for each such factory or workshop, setting forth the location and
the number of employees. Upon payment of the license fee as hereinafter
specified, he shall receive a receipt from the Village Collector showing that a
license has been applied for covering such place or establishment. It shall be
the duty of the Village President, upon receipt of such application, to cause
an investigation to be made of the premises named and described in such
application for the purpose of determining the fitness and suitability of such
factory or workshop, for the conduct and operation of the industry there to be
conducted, from a sanitary standpoint and to ascertain whether applicant has
complied with all laws regulating health, safety and sanitation so as to
properly safeguard the lives and health of the employees therein. If the
Village President, upon completion of such investigation, shall be satisfied
that the applicant has complied with all laws regulating health, safety and
sanitation, and that the place where it is proposed to operate such factory or
workshop is fit and suitable for such purpose, he shall, upon payment by such
applicant to the Village Collector of the license fee, as hereinafter fixed,
issue or cause to be issued to such applicant a license to manage, conduct,
operate or carry on a factory or workshop in said premises.
5-19-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for Factory or Workshop shall be as follows:
Not more than 10 persons      $25.00
11 to 20 persons         50.00
21 to 50 persons         75.00
Over 50 persons         100.00
5-19-5: LICENSED PERIOD:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall expire on the
thirtieth day of April following the date of issuance.
5-19-6: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Every Workshop or Factory shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. All
utensils, vessels, receptacles and rooms, or any other place or thing
whatsoever which is or are used in and about the operation and conduct of said
business shall at all times be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and all
products of such business shall at all times be protected against
contamination.
Adequate and convenient washing and toilet facilities shall be provided for
employees in such establishments, and the location of same shall be subject to
the approval of the Board of Health.
The Board of Health shall inspect each workshop or factory to determine whether
the provisions of this Code regulating health and sanitation applicable thereto
are being complied with. (Ch. 39A; Rev. Ord. 1939; 6-15-50)
CHAPTER 20
SELF SERVICE DRY CLEANERS
SECTION:
5-20-1: Definitions
5-20-2: Compliance Required
5-20-3: Permit for Installation; Fee
5-20-4: License Required
5-20-5: Installation Regulations
5-20-6: Ventilation
5-20-7: Operation Regulations
5-20-8: Inspection
5-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning ascribed to
them:
SELF SERVICE DRY CLEANER: Any establishment or business wherein automatic dry
cleaning machines are available for use by the general public upon the deposit
of a coin or the payment of a fee to the owner, licensee or manager of the
establishment or his agent.
AUTOMATIC DRY CLEANING MACHINE: Any device or apparatus for the cleaning of
clothes or fabrics and designed to be used or operated by any person other than
the owner thereof or his employee, and which makes use of any chemical, solvent
or substance, other than water.
5-20-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to install, operate or maintain any automatic dry cleaning
machine as hereinafter defined except in compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter, or without complying with all of the provisions pertaining to the
installation and operation of such machine herein contained, or in violation of
any applicable ordinance, resolution or other rule or regulation of the Village
or any department thereof.
5-20-3: PERMIT FOR INSTALLATION; FEE:
It shall be unlawful to install any automatic dry cleaning machine, without
first having secured a permit so to do. Application for such permit shall
contain full information as to the type and make of machine to be used, its
mechanical specifications and provisions for ventilation for both the machine
and the room in which it will be located. The fee for such permit shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each machine.
5-20-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of maintaining automatic dry
cleaning machines for use by the public, upon payment of a fee without first
having obtained a license therefor. The annual fee for such license shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus five dollars ($5.00) for each such machine
in addition to one maintained in any one establishment.
Every applicant for a license as required herein, shall submit, together with
the application therefor, a complete set of plans and specifications of the
premises in which the said business is to be operated, correctly showing the
arrangement and location of all machinery to be installed therein.
5-20-5: INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
Each machine shall be completely enclosed by a cabinet and shall be vented with
intake at the top and the outlet at or near the bottom of such machine. Groups
of machines may be entirely enclosed or supported on all open sides by an
enclosure topped with a hood vented as provided for each individual machine.
The exhaust system must maintain a minimum flow of one hundred cubic feet
(100') per minute face velocity through the loading door whenever the door is
open.
The discharge stack for the machines and for the room in which the machines are
located shall extend at least two feet (2') above the level of any window which
can be opened located within fifty feet (50') of the outlet of the stack, and
shall be at least fifty feet (50') away from any fresh air intake leading to
any premises.
The machines must be so constructed as to prevent the loading door from being
opened during the normal cycle of operation. Each machine shall be equipped
with a transparent door or port to allow visual examination of the status of
the cleaning cycle.
5-20-6: VENTILATION:
The room in which such machine is installed shall be ventilated so that there
shall be a minimum flow of air per machine from the area to which the public is
admitted, of at least five hundred cubic feet (500') per machine per minute in
a room where there are no more than three (3) machines installed; four hundred
cubic feet (400') per minute where there are no more than eight machines
installed; three hundred seventy five cubic feet (375') per minute where there
are no more than sixteen machines installed; and three hundred sixty cubic feet
(360') per minute where there are more than seventeen (17) machines installed.
For this purpose each cleaning cell shall be considered as one machine.
Each machine must be so designed and constructed as to prevent the leakage of
liquids, gas or vapors.
5-20-7: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
No such automatic dry cleaning machine shall be operated unless all the
equipment described in the foregoing section is properly installed and in good
operating working condition.
No establishment for which a license is required under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be open for business, and it shall be unlawful to admit the
public or customers into the room where such machines are located unless there
is on duty in the establishment at all times a competent person in charge of
the establishment and in charge of the operation of such machines. There shall
be warning signs posted in places of easy observation warning of the dangers in
the event leakage of liquids, gas or vapor occurs. It shall be unlawful to
permit any residue containing solvent to flow into the sewer system of the
Village; tightly covered metal containers may be used for temporary storage of
such waste outside the building. Such containers shall bear labels indicating
the contents and dangers involved in handling, and shall be locked if in an
unenclosed place.
At least one legible sign shall be maintained in a place available to customers
giving the name, address and phone number of the owner of the establishment,
and of the service department or agency responsible for the proper maintenance
of the machines.
5-20-8: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the Village President to cause such inspections to be
made as are necessary, at least once every six (6) months, to assure compliance
with all applicable rules or regulations of the Village or any department
thereof. (Ch. 38B; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 21
SELF SERVICE LAUNDRY
SECTION:
5-21-1: Definition
5-21-2: License Required
5-21-3: Application
5-21-4: License Period; Fee
5-21-5: Revocation
5-21-6: Maintenance of Premises
5-21-7: Inspection
5-21-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this Chapter, "Self Service Laundry" shall mean any establishment
wherein washing, drying and/or ironing machine units are available for use by
the general public upon the deposit of a coin or the payment of a fee to the
operator of such establishment or his agent.
5-21-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in or conduct a self service laundry business without
first having obtained a license to do so.
5-21-3: APPLICATION:
Every person who desires a license as required by this Chapter shall make
application therefor as provided for by the provisions of this Code.
5-21-4: LICENSE PERIOD; FEE:
License required by this Chapter shall be issued for the period of one year
commencing May 1 and ending the following April 30, and the fee therefor shall
be as follows:
Twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first ten (10) machine units.
Two dollars ($2.00) for each machine unit over ten (10).
5-21-5: REVOCATION:
Any license issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to
revocation for cause by the President and Board of Trustees at any time, and if
revoked, no part of the license fee paid therefor shall be refunded.
5-21-6: MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES:
Each premises licensed under the provisions of this Chapter shall be kept by
the licensee in good repair and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition as
to walls, floors, ceilings, windows, woodwork, machinery, utensils and
fixtures. Each premises shall be adequately lighted and ventilated. Vapors,
smoke or odors emanating from the licensed premises shall not at any time be
permitted to become a nuisance to any portion of the premises nor to any
adjoining premises.
5-21-7: INSPECTION:
Upon application for a license as required under this Chapter, and before
issuance thereof, and annually thereafter, the Clerk shall cause an inspection
of the premises to be licensed to be made by the Building Commissioner to
ascertain if all applicable provisions of the Village Code are being complied
with. (Ch. 38A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 22
LAUNDRY, CLEANERS AND DYERS
SECTION:
5-22-1: License Required
5-22-2: License Fee
5-22-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person, who shall sell, offer for sale, service or deliver laundry,
cleaning or dyeing within any building or other structure or from any vehicle
shall be deemed to be a dealer in the business of laundry, cleaning or dyeing
and shall before engaging in said business obtain a license as a laundry dealer
as herein provided.
5-22-2: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for a laundry dealer who operates or conducts such
business within a building or other structure shall be fifteen dollars
($15.00). The annual license fee for a laundry dealer who operates or conducts
such business from vehicles shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each vehicle
used in or about said business. (4-20-50)
CHAPTER 23
JUNK DEALERS AND PEDDLERS
SECTION:
5-23-1: License Required
5-23-2: Definitions
5-23-3: Application for License
5-23-4: License Fees
5-23-5: Register of all Goods Purchased
5-23-6: Regulations
5-23-7: Limitation Of Licensing Of Persons Acting As “Fence”
5-23-8: Acting As Pawn Broker Prohibited
5-23-9: Retail And Wholesale Business To Be Kept Separate
5-23-10: Inspections
5-23-11: Penalty
5-23-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   Intersection Cross Walks without Traffic Control Signals. Where
traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be, to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway or street within any marked crosswalk or within
any unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Intersection Cross Walks with Traffic Control Signals. Whenever stop
signals or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection or a marked
crosswalk between intersections, the pedestrian shall have the right-of-way
over drivers of vehicles; and at such marked places, drivers of vehicles shall
stop before entering the nearest crosswalk, and any pedestrian within or
entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right-of-
way over any vehicle so stopped.
   (C)   All Vehicles Required to Stop for Pedestrian in Crosswalk. The driver
of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any vehicle
proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for the purpose
of permitting a pedestrian to cross. (Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
5-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed:
                         Every person not having a place of business in the
                         Village, who, by use of a motor vehicle collects
ITINERANT JUNK PEDDLER:  metals, machinery, parts of machinery, clothing, waste
                         paper, rags or other junk materials and moves all such
                         collections outside the municipal boundaries of the
                         village.
                         Among other things, old rope, iron, chain, brass,
                         copper, tin, lead, such paper, bags, woolens, clips,
                         bagging, rubber, glass and empty bottles of different
JUNK:                    sizes, when the number of each is less than one gross,
                         and all other things composed of or consisting of any
                         combination of materials or articles mentioned in this
                         section.
                         Every person who shall buy, sell, barter, or exchange,
                         or who shall collect, receive, store or hold in
JUNK DEALER:             possession for sale, barter or exchange, any of the
                         articles or things in or by this section denominated
                         or classified as junk, whether at wholesale or retail.
                         Every person not having a place of business in the
                         Village, who, by use of a motor vehicle, wagon, or
JUNK PEDDLER:            such other equipment or container, collects metals,
                         machinery, parts of machinery, clothing, waste paper,
                         rags or other junk materials.
                         Store, shop, warehouse or building where junk is
                         bought, sold, bartered or exchanged, or where junk is
JUNK STORE:              collected, received, stored or held in possession for
                         resale, barter or exchange, either at wholesale or
                         retail.
                         Every vehicle or wagon used by a junk dealer in the
JUNK WAGON:              collection, disposition or transportation of junk from
                         one place to another.
                         Any yard, place or enclosure other than a junk store,
                         as herein defined, where junk is bought, sold,
JUNKYARD:                bartered or exchanged, either at retail or wholesale,
                         or where junk is collected, received, stored or held
                         for resale, barter or exchange, either at wholesale or
                         retail.
                         Every person who shall buy, sell, barter or exchange,
                         or which shall collect, receive, barter or hold in
                         possession for sale, barter or exchange any of the
                         articles or things in or by this section denominated
                         or classified as junk, where the amounts or weights
                         thereof in separate transactions shall consist of
RETAIL JUNK DEALER:      small quantities, and one who purchases from junk
                         peddlers; provided, that no person licensed under the
                         terms of this Chapter as a retail junk dealer, shall
                         be permitted under the retail dealer's license to
                         purchase junk, as defined in this section, from any
                         retail junk dealer, or to purchase junk in carload
                         lots.
                         Every person not having a place of business in the
                         Village, who, by use of stationary equipment or
STATIONARY JUNK PEDDLER: containers, collects metals, machinery, parts of
                         machinery, clothing, waste paper, rags or other junk
                         materials.
                         Every person who shall buy, sell, barter or exchange,
                         or who shall collect, receive or hold in possession
                         for sale, barter or exchange, any of the articles or
WHOLESALE JUNK DEALER:   things in and by this section denominated or
                         classified as junk, where the amounts or weights
                         thereof in separate transactions shall consist of
                         large quantities or who shall purchase from junk
                         dealers, or in carload lots. (Ord. 2020-08 4-16-2020)
 
5-23-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license to engage in the business of a junk dealer or
junk peddler shall file an application in writing therefor which shall conform
to the general requirements relating to applications for licenses. (Ch. 37;
Rev. Ord. 1939; amd. Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
5-23-4: LICENSE FEES:
   (A)   Retail junk dealer license for a retail junk store or a retail
junkyard shall be five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per annum;
   (B)   Wholesale junk dealer license for a wholesale junk store or a
wholesale junkyard shall be five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per annum;
   (C)   A stationary junk peddler license to engage in the business of junk
peddler shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum per container or other
stationary collection equipment.
   (D)   An itinerant junk peddler license to engage in the business of junk
peddler on an itinerant basis shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per annum. (1-
10-57; amd. Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
5-23-5: REGISTER OF ALL GOODS PURCHASED:
It shall be the duty of every junk dealer and junk peddler to keep a register
of all goods purchased other than rags, clothes and waste paper, setting forth
the name and address of the person from whom purchased, the date and the price
paid, which register shall be open for inspection by the President of the
Village Board and any member of the Police Department. (Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-
2020)
5-23-6: REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Location. It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish,
conduct or maintain any junk store or junkyard within five hundred (500) feet
of a church, hospital, public or parochial school, the distance to be measured
by the shortest straight line between the junk store or junkyard sought to be
located, established, conducted or maintained, and any such building used for
the purpose of a church, hospital, public or parochial school.
   (B)   Written Consent of Property Owners. No license shall be issued to
engage in the business of junk dealer, unless and until the applicant therefor
shall first obtain the written consent of a majority of the property owners
within a radius of five hundred feet (500') from the premises in which such
business is to be operated. Such written consents shall be filed by the
applicant for a license with the Clerk.
   (C)   Marking for Vehicles. All vehicles used by any junk dealer or junk
peddler shall have the location and telephone number of the business plainly
marked on such vehicle on both sides. Upon any change in location or number,
the marking shall be changed to correspond to the new place of business or
telephone number.
   (D)   Marking for Containers or Collection Equipment. All containers or
other collection equipment used by any junk dealer or junk peddler shall have
the location and telephone number of the business plainly marked on such
container or equipment on all sides. Upon any change in location or number, the
marking shall be changed to correspond to the new place of business or
telephone number.
   (E)   Hours of Operation. No junk dealer shall receive in the conduct of the
business any goods, article or thing whatsoever from any person or entity
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) p.m. and seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. of
each day.
   (F)   Alterations of Junk. No article, thing or substance of junk, received
or collected at retail shall be melted, vulcanized or otherwise changed within
two (2) days after the same was purchased, received or collected.
   (G)   Purchase from Minors Restricted. No junk dealer or peddler shall
purchase any article whatsoever from any minor who is under eighteen (18) years
of age without the written consent of the minor's parents or guardians.
   (H)   Location of Drop Boxes, Collection Bins. It shall be unlawful to
place, store, or locate, either temporarily or permanently, any bin, container,
drop box or other receptacle intended for the collection of any items of junk,
used clothing, furniture or furnishings, or other item of personality at any
location within the Village other than on the premises of a licensed junk
dealer or for:
      (1)   The donation of books on the premises of a public library district;
      (2)   The donation of paper on the premises of a park district, public
library or public or parochial school;
      (3)   The donation or disposal of flags of the United States of American
on the premises of an American Legion or hall of Veterans of Foreign Wars;
      (4)   The donation of eye glasses, hearing aids or other items benefiting
the visual or hearing impaired within a container maintained by the Lions Club
and located with the consent of the owner of the premises upon which said
container is located.
   Unless otherwise allowed under Sections
5-23-6(h)(l)-(4) above, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation
or other entity to permit or allow any bin, container, drop box or other
receptacle to be located on any premises under their control where the
principal business or activity is other than that of a licensed junk dealer.
   Any permitted bin, container, drop box or other receptacle shall not be
placed along the front property line facing roadways and must not obstruct
pedestrians or motorists, must be maintained in good condition without any
graffiti, visible rust, holes or structural damage. Their size is restricted to
seven (7) feet in height and no more than thirty (30) square feet with only one
receptacle being allowed per premises.
   (I)   Recordkeeping. Every junk dealer shall keep a written book and an
electronic record in which there shall be made, at the time of the transaction,
a record of every article received, purchased, sold or exchanged, setting forth
the following: the date of the transaction, the name and residence of the
purchaser or seller, and a brief description of the article sold or purchased,
including identification numbers thereon, if any. Such record shall at all
reasonable times be open to the inspection of the chief of police and any
member of the police force, or any person duly authorized in writing for such
purpose by the chief of police.
   Every junk dealer shall subscribe to Leads Online or the village's current
electronic reporting system and maintain said subscription throughout the term
of the junk dealer's business license. Every junk dealer shall provide an
electronic record utilizing the Leads Online or the village's current
electronic reporting system. The junk dealer shall include in the report all
articles of any kind purchased or received and shall be entered and uploaded
and include all information from its books and records regarding the
transaction as soon as reasonably possible after the transaction is
consummated.
   In the event the electronic reporting system malfunctions or is otherwise
not operational, the junk dealer shall be required to keep written records of
said transactions and submit these to the village within twenty-four (24) hours
of such transaction during the period wherein the electronic system is
nonoperational. No item shall be received unless that person exhibits a
driver's license or state identification card and the identifying number is
recorded in the electronic report, item photographed and all are uploaded onto
the electronic reporting system. In the event of a change in its electronic
reporting system, the village shall notify all junk dealers. (Ch. 27; Rev. Ord.
1939; Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
5-23-7: LIMITATION OF LICENSING OF PERSONS ACTING AS “FENCE:”
   (A)   The term "fence" as used in this section, shall mean and include any
place for the purchase, reception or keeping of stolen goods.
   (B)   The license of any person who shall have been licensed as a junk
dealer, and which shall have been convicted of keeping, maintaining, or
conducting a "fence", shall upon such conviction be immediately revoked. No
person, who shall have been convicted of keeping, maintaining or conducting a
"fence" shall be granted a license as a junk dealer.
   (C)   No corporation, any one of whose officers, stockholders or employees
has been convicted of keeping, maintaining or conducting a "fence," shall be
granted a license as a junk dealer unless such corporation shall produce
satisfactory evidence that such officer, stockholder or employee has disposed
of the entire interest in such corporation and has completely severed the
connection with such corporation.
   (D)   Every person applying for a license as a junk dealer shall state in a
written application that the person has not kept, maintained or conducted and
that the person has not been convicted of keeping, maintaining or conducting a
"fence". Every corporation making application for a license as a junk dealer,
shall state in its written application that it has not, nor has any of its
officers, stockholders or employees, kept, maintained or conducted a “fence.”
(Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
5-23-8: ACTING AS PAWNBROKER PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No junk dealer or peddler shall receive any article or thing by way of
pledge or pawn, nor shall such dealer loan or advance any sum of money on the
security of any article or thing.
   (B)   No junk dealer or peddler shall, during the period of a license issued
under this Chapter, receive or hold a license to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker. (Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
5-23-9: RETAIL AND WHOLESALE BUSINESS TO BE KEPT SEPARATE:
Every wholesale junk dealer who shall also engage in the retail junk business,
either by collecting, receiving, buying, selling, bartering, exchanging or
storing junk in retail quantities, shall for the period of two (2) days after
the receipt, purchase, collection or storage of any junk so collected,
purchased, received, or stored, keep the same separate and distinct from junk
which may be received, purchased or stored in wholesale quantities. All such
junk thus received, purchased, stored or collected in retail quantities shall
not, during such period be sold, bartered or exchanged, or be exposed for sale,
barter or exchange, and shall at all reasonable times be subject to inspection
by the chief of police. (Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
5-23-10: INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   Retail Business. The places of business and all junk of every junk
dealer, who shall be licensed to do a retail business only shall, at all
reasonable times be subject to inspection by the chief of police or a designee
of the chief of police.
   (B)   Wholesale Business. Whenever there shall be filed with the chief of
police by the owner or the agent of the owner, a sworn written statement that
such owner or such agent has reason to believe that certain stolen goods or
things specifically described in the sworn statement are in the possession of a
wholesale junk dealer, the chief of police shall have a right to inspect the
premises of the aforesaid junk dealer at any reasonable hour and view all junk
which has been purchased, collected or stored in such premises.
   (C)   Examination of Lost or Stolen Property. Every retail junk dealer who
shall receive or be in possession of any goods, articles, things or junk which
may have been lost or stolen, or alleged or supposed to have been lost or
stolen, shall forthwith, on demand, exhibit the same to the chief of police or
a designee of the chief of police. (Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
5-23-11: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of chapter shall be fined
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense, and up to seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for any subsequent offense. (Ord. 2020-08, 4-16-2020)
CHAPTER 24
RETAIL LIQUOR DEALERS
SECTION:
5-24-1: Definitions
5-24-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
5-24-3: Liquor License Required
5-24-4: Application And Fingerprints
5-24-5: License Classification
5-24-6: Retail Liquor Licenses; Number Limited
5-24-7: Special Event And Special Use Permit Licenses
5-24-8: Fees
5-24-9: Term Of License
5-24-10: Issuance Of License
5-24-11: Retail Sales Restrictions
5-24-12: Prohibited Licensees
5-24-13: Restricted Areas
5-24-14: Premises And Sales Regulations
5-24-15: Sanitary Requirements
5-24-16: Change Of Location/Change In Nonnatural Licensees
5-24-17: Employment Of Minors
5-24-18: Solicitors
5-24-19: Prohibited Activities
5-24-20: Illegal Conduct On Licensed Premises – Cooperation With Police
5-24-21: General Licensing Provisions Applicable
5-24-22: Closing Hours
5-24-23: Sunday Sales
5-24-24: Enforcement Actions
5-24-25: Suspension And Revocation Of License
5-24-26: Revoked License
5-24-27: Revocation Order Not Stayed By Appeal
5-24-28: Rules And Regulations
5-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this chapter which are defined in an act of the
general assembly entitled "an act relating to alcoholic liquors" approved
January 31, 1934, as amended ("the liquor control act" or "act"), shall, for
the purpose of this chapter, have the same meanings accorded to such words and
phrases in said act. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The president of the board of trustees of the village is the local liquor
control commissioner of the village, and is charged with the administration
within the village of the appropriate provisions of the Illinois liquor control
act and of such ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may
be enacted by the corporate authorities. The president may appoint a person or
persons to assist him or her in the exercise of the powers and the performance
of the duties herein provided for such local liquor control commissioner, and
such deputy local liquor control commissioners may be appointed by the
president annually and their term shall run from May 1 of the year of
appointment through April 30 of the year following the year of appointment. The
salaries of the local liquor control commissioner and any deputy local liquor
control commissioners shall be established by the corporate authorities in the
annual appropriations ordinance and in accordance with law.
In addition to the powers and duties otherwise provided for in this chapter,
the local liquor control commissioner and deputies, with the written consent of
the local liquor control commissioner, shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses authorized by this chapter:
   (A)   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within
the village;
   (B)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the liquor control act or any rules or regulations adopted by him
or her or by the Illinois liquor control commission have been or are being
violated, and at such time to examine said premises of said licensee in
connection therewith;
   (C)   To notify the secretary of state where a club incorporated under the
general not for profit corporation act of 1986 or a foreign corporation
functioning as a club in this state under a certificate of authority issued
under that act has violated the liquor control act by selling or offering for
sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer's license;
   (D)   To receive a written complaint from any citizen within the village
that any of the provisions of the liquor control act, or any rules or
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, have been or are being violated and to
act upon such complaints;
   (E)   To receive local license fees through the clerk and pay the same
forthwith to the village treasurer for deposit into the general revenue funds
of the village;
   (F)   To notify the secretary of state of any convictions for a violation of
section 6-20 of the liquor control act;
   (G)   To levy fines in accordance with the liquor control act.
The local liquor control commissioner or a deputy shall have the right to
examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license
or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or
suspension has been served in the manner provided by law, and to examine or
cause to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee;
to hear testimony and take proof for his or her information in the performance
of his or her duties, and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be
effective in any part of the state of Illinois. For the purpose of obtaining
any of the information desired by the local liquor control commissioner under
this section, the local liquor control commissioner may authorize a deputy
local liquor control commissioner to act on behalf of him or her. (Ord. 2005-
21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-3: LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor without first having
obtained a village retailer's liquor license for each location, place or
premises where the retailer is located to sell the same. The local liquor
license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance, except a nonbeverage user's license, unless sooner revoked as
provided in the liquor control act, and shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee, provided that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when
such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of
the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate
court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy
until the expiration of such license but not longer than six (6) months after
the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. Except in the case of a
nonbeverage user's license, a refund shall be made of that portion of the
license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
A retailer's liquor license may be renewed as follows:
   (A)   Any licensee may renew a license at the expiration thereof by
submitting an application for renewal, provided the licensee is then qualified
to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal license is sought
remains suitable for such purpose; and provided further that the renewal
privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right which
shall in any case prevent the corporate authorities from decreasing the number
of licenses to be issued within the village.
   (B)   No retailer's license shall be renewed if the department of revenue
has reported to the Illinois liquor control commission or local liquor control
commissioner that such retailer is delinquent in filing any required tax
returns or paying any amounts owed to the state of Illinois until the applicant
is issued a certificate by the department of revenue stating that all
delinquent returns or amounts owed have been paid by guaranteed remittance or
the payment agreement to pay all amounts owed has been accepted by the
department. No retailer's license issued by a local liquor control commissioner
shall be renewed unless the applicant provides documentation that any taxes,
fees or charges owed to the village by the applicant have been satisfied by
payment in the form of a cashier's check, certified check, money order, or
cash. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-4: APPLICATION AND FINGERPRINTS:
An application for a retailer's license for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall
be made in accordance with the general requirements of the provisions of this
code relating to application for licenses, and any person desiring to engage in
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor shall make application therefor under oath
with the clerk on the form provided by the clerk. The clerk shall forward the
application to the president as local liquor control commissioner for such
action as he or she may deem fit to take pursuant to law. The application shall
include, without limitation, the following information and affirmations:
   (A)   The name and residence address of the applicant.
   (B)   Applicant's place of birth and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and
place of naturalization.
   (C)   The length of time applicant has resided in the village.
   (D)   The name and business address of applicant's last employer.
   (E)   Whether or not applicant has ever been convicted of a felony.
   (F)   The location, place or premises where applicant proposes to engage in
the business of retail liquor sales. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
   (G)   Unless an exemption is granted by the Local Liquor Control Commission,
verify that the proposed location, place or premises is not within one hundred
feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons,
or for veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval station.
(Ord. 2018-17, 9-20-2018)
   (H)   Whether or not applicant is a manufacturer, distiller, brewer,
bottler, wholesaler, jobber or distributor of liquor, or an agent or
representative of any such person.
   (I)   Whether or not any permit or license issued to the applicant has ever
been revoked.
   (J)   Whether or not any manufacturer, distiller, brewer, bottler,
wholesaler, jobber or distributor of liquor, or any agent or representative of
such person, directly or indirectly, will supply, furnish, lease, rent, lend or
give to the applicant the proposed location, place, or premises, or any sign
advertising applicant's place of business, or will advance or pay applicant's
license fee, or has done any of such things, or is or will be financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in the ownership, conduct or operation of
applicant's retail liquor business.
   (K)   That applicant will not violate any of the provisions of this Code,
the laws of the State or of the United States in the conduct of his business.
   (L)   Documents establishing that the person or entity owns the premises for
which a license is sought, or has a lease thereon for the full period for which
the license is to be issued; and that the premises complies with the parking
requirements set forth in section
5-1-13 of this title.
   (M)   That the books and records of the retail licensee shall be made
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission or the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner; and that such books and records shall be maintained in the State
of Illinois, unless access is available electronically. Further, that all
original invoices or copies thereof covering purchases of alcoholic liquor
shall be retained on the licensed premises for a period of ninety (90) days
after such purchase, unless the Illinois Liquor Control Commission has granted
a waiver to the retail licensee or that its books and records are available
electronically.
In addition to the written application, each applicant shall submit his or her
fingerprints to the Village Police Department in the form and manner prescribed
by the Village Police Department. These fingerprints shall be checked against
the fingerprint records now and hereafter filed in the Illinois State Police
and Federal Bureau of Investigation criminal history records databases. The fee
charged by the Illinois State Police for conducting the criminal history
records check shall be paid by the applicant, and the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall receive the Illinois State Police's positive identification
of an applicant and records of conviction of any applicant before acting upon
any application. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner, through the Clerk,
shall collect the fee charged by the Illinois State Police and forward the fee
to the Village Police Department which shall submit the fingerprints and the
fee to the Illinois State Police. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-5: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION:
Liquor licenses required and provided by this chapter shall be divided into the
following classes:
   (A)   Class A which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in
sealed packages only but not for consumption on the premises sold.
   (B)   Class B which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on or off the premises where sold and not for resale in any form.
   (C)   Class C which shall permit the promotion and merchandising of
alcoholic beverages from a location within the Village for future delivery,
which shall be subject to the following regulations:
      1.   There shall be no retail sales from stock on hand at the licensed
premises or delivery of ordered merchandise therefrom.
      2.   Promoting may include appointments for tasting demonstrations off
the premises.
      3.   Orders accepted and received shall consist of case lots only.
      4.   Storage of merchandise on the premises is prohibited.
      5.   House to house or business to business solicitation is not
permitted.
      6.   All employees, agents and representatives shall have reached age
twenty one (21).
   (D)   Class N which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises of a club and not for resale in any form. "Club"
means a corporation organized under the laws of this State, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner at the time of its application for a license, two (2) copies of a
list of names and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten
(10) days of the election of any additional member his or her name and address;
and, provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board
of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at
their annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent, or employee of
the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or
other compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic
liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests introduced by
members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any
annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other governing
body out of the general revenue of the club.
   (E)   Class R which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold and not for resale in any form when the
sale of alcoholic liquor is incidental to the operation of a restaurant and the
primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food and the
applicant is the owner or operator of the restaurant and holds a valid license
authorizing the sale of food. No restaurant, licensed as such, shall sell
alcoholic liquor except with meals. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
   (F)   Class E which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises of an institution of postsecondary higher learning
which shall include the entire campus of the postsecondary institution, but
alcoholic liquor shall not be offered for resale in any form except for on
premises consumption, and shall be subject to the following regulations:
      1.   There shall be no retail sales delivery of ordered merchandise from
the licensed premises, and all sales or service of alcoholic liquor shall be in
conjunction with or in support of the educational purposes and programs of the
institution of postsecondary higher learning.
      2.   Promotions and training programs may include tasting demonstrations
on the premises only.
      3.   All employees, agents, and representatives of the institution
supervising or having responsibility for any aspect of the educational program
shall have reached twenty one (21) years of age, and no retail sales or service
of any alcoholic liquor shall be made to or by any person under twenty one (21)
years of age.
      4.   Class E licenses shall apply to all areas on the premises of an
institution of postsecondary education located within the boundaries of the
Village of River Grove, but shall be strictly limited to institutions for
postsecondary higher learning. (Ord. 2011-19, 7-7-2011)
   (G)   Class G (beer and wine sales for consumption only on premises licensed
as video gaming operation) shall permit the retail sale of beer and wine only
for consumption on the premises where sold and not for resale in any form when
the sale of beer and wine is incidental to the operation of a licensed video
gaming parlor and in conjunction with providing a full service food menu to
patrons during operating hours. The applicant must hold valid licenses
authorizing the operation of video gaming and the sale of food. No premises,
licensed as such, shall sell beer or wine except during the availability of
video gaming services and full food menu services. Unless an exemption is
granted by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, this license shall not be
issued to any premises which is located less than one hundred feet (100') from
any church. (Ord. 2018-17, 9-20-2018)
Licenses shall state thereon the class to which they belong, the names of the
licensees and the addresses and description of the premises for which they are
granted, and shall state the dates of their issuance and expiration. Every
licensee shall cause the license or licenses to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   (H)   Class O licenses. A Class O liquor license shall authorize the
consumption of alcoholic liquor outdoors on the premises where sold, subject to
the following regulations and compliance therewith:
      1.   Outdoor sales shall be only by entities possessing a valid Class B
or Class R liquor license from the Village for the sale of alcoholic liquor at
retail for consumption on the premises;
      2.   Outdoor sales shall be allowed for limited periods of time at the
hours specified in this Code or as otherwise ordered by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner;
      3.   The outdoor service area must be contiguous and adjacent to the
licensed premises, and must be located on a hard and level surface and cordoned
off and screened from adjacent properties as approved by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
      4.   Alcoholic liquor may only be consumed in said designated area
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
on any day of the week.
      5.   Live entertainment and music shall not be permitted in the outdoor
service area.
      6.   Emergency ingress and egress shall be reviewed and approved by the
fire chief.
      7.   A Class O license shall only be valid from May 1 through November 1
each year.
      8.   The annual fee for such license shall be as provided in
5-24-8 of this Code per year, payable annually from May 1 of each year.
   (I)   Class B1 Licenses (Banquet Retail License) shall permit the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold and not for
resale in any form, but the service and consumption of liquor shall be at a
private, invitation-only banquet or gathering held in the licensee's business
premises or hall. Examples include weddings, company banquets, retirement
parties, or club, organization or church events.
      The following regulations shall apply to all Class B1 licenses:
      1.   The licensee shall obtain and maintain a restaurant license in
accordance with local code.
      2.   All consumption of alcohol must be within the premises of the
business unless the licensee applies for and obtains a Class O liquor license
under subsection
5-24-5(H).
      3.   Attendance by patrons must be by invitation only.
      4.   Any event may not be open or advertised to the public in any manner
including any social media.
      5.   An event cannot be for the promotion of the licensee's business.
      6.   Liquor must not be free of charge or brought by individuals
attending the event.
      7.   Package deals are allowed that may include, for example, the cost of
dinner, liquor, and entertainment.
      8.   Patrons and guests may not be charged for admission. "Charge"
includes cover charge, donations, dues, fees, or otherwise.
      9.   The business shall be closed to the general public at all times
other than when hosting a permitted private event, banquet or gathering.
      10.   The business may operate and host events between the hours twelve
o'clock (12:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday, and
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. on Friday and Saturday.
      11.   Live entertainment and music shall not be permitted in the outdoor
service area.
      12.   Emergency ingress and egress shall be reviewed and approved by the
fire chief.
      13.   The annual fee for such license shall be as provided in
5-24-8 of this Code per year, payable annually on or before May 1 of each year.
      14.   Every licensee shall cause all required licenses to be framed and
displayed in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
      15.   Every licensee shall otherwise comply with all other applicable
ordinances of the Village of River Grove.
Every licensee shall cause the license or licenses to be framed and hung in
plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-
2006; amd. Ord. 2021-09, 4-15-2021; Ord. 2023-14, 7-6-2023)
5-24-6: RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSES; NUMBER LIMITED:
The number of licenses to engage in the business of retail liquor sales within
each class in the Village is limited as follows:
   Class A licenses shall not exceed seven (7) per license year.
   Class B licenses shall not exceed twelve (12) per license year.
   Class C licenses shall not be available until further order of the board.
   Class N licenses shall not exceed two (2) per license year.
   Class R licenses shall not be available until further order of the board.
   Class E licenses shall not exceed one (1) per license year.
   Class G licenses shall not exceed nine (9) per license year.
   Class B1 licenses shall not exceed one (1) per license year.
   Class O Licenses shall not exceed five (5) per license year.
If any license issued under the provisions of this chapter is revoked or is not
renewed within thirty (30) days of the previous license’s expiration date, the
number of licenses authorized to be issued in any class shall be decreased
automatically by one for each license so revoked or not renewed in a timely
manner.
(Ord. 2019-14, 5-16-2019; amd. Ord. 2019-24, 8-15-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 4-15-
2021; Ord. 2021-19, 5-20-2021; Ord. 2022-11, 6-16-2022; Ord. 2023-04, 3-16-
2023; Ord. 2023-14, 7-6-2023; Ord. 2024-08, 3-4-2024; Ord. 2024-15, 6-17-2024)
5-24-7: SPECIAL EVENT AND SPECIAL USE PERMIT LICENSES:
In addition to the licenses to engage in the business of retail liquor sales
provided for in section
5-24-6 of this chapter, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may issue special
event (not for profit) and special use permit licenses which shall be numbered
consecutively with said licenses for the sale of alcoholic liquor only
incidental and in connection with the operation of a special event or special
use. Applicants and holders of permits issued under the authority of this
section shall comply with all requirements except license fees of this chapter.
Permits authorized by this section shall not be construed as licenses to engage
in the business of retail liquor dealer and may be withdrawn by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner at any time, with or without cause, and applicants
for permits in applying for same shall be deemed to have expressly agreed to
this condition. A special use permit license and a special event retailer's
license (not for profit) shall be issued for a specific time period, not to
exceed fifteen (15) days per licensee per location in any twelve (12) month
period. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-8: FEES:
Commencing on May 1, 2006, the annual fee for all retail liquor licenses
provided for herein shall be as follows:
Classes A, B, B1, C, and G shall be one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00).
Classes N and R shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), except that Class N
license fees shall not apply to a recognized IRS section 501(c) not for profit
organization.
Class E shall not be subject to payment of an annual license fee.
Class O shall be subject to payment of an annual license fee of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
The annual license fee shall be paid on or before April 30 in each year
provided that said fees shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar
months which have expired in an annual period prior to the issuance of the
license; and provided that a license hereunder shall not by virtue of such fact
be entitled to sell or offer for sale any item or to engage in any other
activity or provide any service, amusement or convenience otherwise licensed or
regulated by this Code without complying with the regulations and licensing
provisions applicable thereto. A licensee shall not be entitled to receive a
refund of any licensing fee paid in the event the licensee ceases to conduct
business prior to the expiration of the liquor license or the license is
revoked or suspended in accordance with law. A failure to pay the annual
license fee in a timely manner shall require payment of a late charge of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each month or portion of a month that a
licensee fails to pay the annual license fee, up to six (6) months, and after
six (6) months (November 1 of the year), said license shall be deemed forfeited
for failure to renew the liquor license.
A negotiable instrument received as payment for a license fee, transfer fee,
late fee, offer in compromise, predisciplinary conference settlement, or fine
imposed by order that is dishonored on presentation shall not be considered
payment and shall be cause for disciplinary action. (Ord. 2016-01, 3-17-2016;
amd. Ord. 2021-09, 4-15-2021; Ord. 2023-14, 7-6-2023)
5-24-9: TERM OF LICENSE:
Every such retail liquor license shall be issued for annual periods to begin on
May 1 and to end on April 30 of the year following the year of issuance. (Ord.
2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-10: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Retail liquor licenses shall be issued by the President, as Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, subject to the provisions of the Liquor Control Act, as
amended, and to the provisions of this Code relating to alcoholic liquor in
general, and provided further that no license shall be issued to any person who
does not own the premises for which a license is sought, or who does not have a
lease thereon for the full period for which the license is to be issued. (Ord.
2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-11: RETAIL SALES RESTRICTIONS:
No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or kept for sale, displayed or
advertised for sale at retail, or delivered to any person purchasing same at
retail except at a location, place or premises described in a retail liquor
license. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-12: PROHIBITED LICENSEES:
Except as otherwise provided herein, no license of any kind issued by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who or an entity that is not a resident of the Village.
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides.
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law, unless the Illinois Liquor Control Commission has determined that such
person has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust in
accordance with the procedures and regulations of the commission.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   (G)   A person whose license issued under the Liquor Control Act has been
revoked for cause.
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   (I)   A partnership, if any general partner or any limited partner thereof,
owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate partner interest in such
partnership would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason
other than residence within the Village.
   (J)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or is a foreign
corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of 1983 to
transact business in Illinois, or if any officer, manager or director thereof,
or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five
percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within
the Village.
   (K)   A person or entity whose place of business is conducted by a manager
or agent unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
by the licensee.
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or has
forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
   (M)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
   (N)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of a Local Liquor
Control Commission, any President of the Village Board of Trustees, any member
of a Village Board of Trustees; and no such official shall be interested
directly in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except
that a license may be granted to such official in relation to premises that are
not located within the Village if the issuance of such license is approved by
the Illinois Liquor Control Commission and except that a license may be
granted, to a member of the Village Board of Trustees in relation to premises
that are located within the Village if: 1) the sale of alcoholic liquor
pursuant to the license is incidental to the selling of food, 2) the issuance
of the license is approved by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission, 3) the
issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable local ordinances
in effect where the premises are located, and 4) the official granted a license
does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues pending before the board to which the
license holder is elected.
   (O)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   (P)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
by section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of, the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, or as
proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   (Q)   A person or entity to whom a Federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the Federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the Raffles Act or the Illinois Pull-Tabs and Jar Games Act.
   (R)   A person or entity who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on the licensed retail premises and who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the liability amounts required under the Liquor Control Act. (Ord.
2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-13: RESTRICTED AREAS:
Unless an exemption is granted by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
one hundred feet (100') of any church, school other than an institution of
higher learning, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans,
their spouses or children or any military or naval station, provided, that this
prohibition shall not apply to and shall not require any exemption for hotels
offering restaurant service or regularly organized clubs, where sale of
alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on; nor to the renewal
of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one
hundred feet (100') of any church or school where the church or school has been
established within such one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the
original license. In the case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet
(100') shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship
services or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may issue
a liquor license or permit to a church or private school to sell at retail
alcoholic liquor if any such sales are limited to periods when groups are
assembled on the premises solely for the promotion of some common object other
than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors.
No alcoholic liquors shall be sold or delivered in any building belonging to or
under the control of the Village. (Ord. 2018-17, 9-20-2018)
5-24-14: PREMISES AND SALES REGULATIONS:
All retail licensees shall comply with the following regulations:
   (A)   Unobstructed View Of Premises: All parts of the interior of the
location, place or premises used for the business of a retail liquor dealer
shall be kept well lighted. No screens, blinds, curtains or other obstruction
to a free and clear view of the interior of such location, place or premises
shall be used at the entrance or windows thereof, and no closed or partially
closed room or screened place shall be maintained in connection with such
location, place or premises for service of liquor to customers; provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the use
for such service of an open room connected with such location, place or
premises by an open stairway.
   (B)   Posted Warning: Every holder of a retail license, whether the licensee
sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquors for use or consumption on or off the
retail license premises, shall cause a sign with the message "GOVERNMENT
WARNING: ACCORDING TO THE SURGEON GENERAL, WOMEN SHOULD NOT DRINK ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES DURING PREGNANCY BECAUSE OF THE RISK OF BIRTH DEFECTS" to be framed
and hung in plain view. These signs shall be no larger than eight and one-half
inches by eleven inches (81/2"x11"). In the event there is no warning sign
posted on the retailer's premises, the retailer shall have thirty (30) days
from receipt of the warning sign to post it on the licensed premises.
Thereafter, a retailer who violates this provision is subject to a written
warning for the first violation. For a second or subsequent violation, the
retailer shall pay a fine of at least twenty dollars ($20.00) but not more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such violation. For the third and
subsequent violations, each day the activity continues shall be a separate
violation.
   (C)   Pyrotechnics/Toxics: A retailer's on premises consumption licensee may
not permit the use of any pyrotechnic device within its licensed premises
without the prior authorization of the Illinois State Fire Marshal. A
retailer's on premises consumption licensee, or any agent or employee of that
licensee, may not use mace, pepper spray, or any other toxic air released
compound within its licensed premises.
   (D)   Exits Not Impeded: No person may impede any person who is attempting
to exit the premises of a retailer's on premises consumption licensee due to an
emergency that constitutes a threat to the health or safety of persons within
the licensed premises. For the purpose of this section, the term "impede a
person who is attempting to exit" includes physically restraining the person or
blocking or locking an exit while the licensed premises is open to the public.
A retailer's on premises consumption licensee with an authorized capacity of at
least one hundred (100) persons must place a panic bar on each exit of its
licensed premises.
   (E)   Happy Hour Prohibited: All retail licensees shall maintain a schedule
of the prices charged for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and
consumed on the licensed premises or in any room or part thereof, and shall
provide a copy of the schedule of prices with its application for license. No
retail licensee or employee or agent of such licensee shall:
      1.   Serve two (2) or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that one person, except if conducting product
sampling pursuant to section 6-31 of the Act or selling or delivering wine by
the bottle or carafe;
      2.   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price;
      3.   Sell, offer to sell or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price is a promotion to
encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, except as authorized by the Act;
      4.   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or the
size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      5.   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      6.   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under subsections (E)1 through (E)5
of this section.
      7.   Serve, give away, or permit to be served or given away in such
licensed premises, any alcoholic liquor in consideration in part or in whole
for any food purchased therein.
   (F)   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a
licensee from:
      1.   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      2.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package or
hotel package;
      3.   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract for the
holding of any banquet, function, meeting, convention or trade show;
      4.   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      5.   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent) including, but not limited to,
buckets, carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner and delivered to two (2) or more persons at one time; or
      6.   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in whole
or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment not
regularly scheduled. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
   (G)   Prohibited Gaming Conduct:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent thereof
to permit any person to undertake the following kinds of conduct on premises
the Village has licensed to sell or distribute liquor:
         (a) There shall be no conventional gambling allowed on any premises
licensed to sell or distribute alcoholic liquor, except video gaming terminals
licensed by the Illinois Gaming Board and pursuant to chapter 42 of this title
shall not be considered "conventional gambling", and shall therefore not be
prohibited under this subsection.
         (b) There shall be no game of chance amusement device allowed on any
premises or portion thereof licensed to sell or distribute alcoholic liquor.
For purposes of this subsection, a game of chance amusement device shall be any
machine or other device activated upon the insertion of cash, electronic cards
or vouchers or any combination thereof for self-service use, which by
application of the element of chance, may deliver or entitle the person playing
or operating the device to receive cash, premiums, merchandise or tokens,
including without limitation machines or devices that offer games of skill or
chance where money or other things of value can be won but no payment or
purchase is required to participate. This definition shall not include video
gaming terminals licensed by the Illinois Gaming Board and chapter 42 of this
title.
      2.   Seizure For Unlawful Use: In addition to general Code penalties
which are applicable for violation of this chapter, if the Liquor Control
Commissioner, Director of Police Services, or their duly authorized Enforcement
Officer shall have a reasonable basis for believing that any device or object
is being used for conventional gambling or an amusement device is being used
for gambling purposes or for games of chance, each device or object may be
seized by any duly authorized enforcement official, followed by an
administrative hearing with notice to the owner within seven (7) days of such
seizure for the purpose of reviewing the appropriateness of the seizure, and
held until such time as the owner of such device or object reimburses the
Village for actual cartage cost incurred in the seizure and pays to the Village
the sum of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day or part of day
each said device or object has been allowed on or in any premises or portion
thereof licensed under this chapter. (Ord. 2018-12, 5-3-2018)
A violation of this section shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of
the retailer's license as provided by this chapter and the Act. (Ord. 2005-21,
2-2-2006)
5-24-15: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Every person or entity licensed hereunder who shall sell any alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises of such licensee shall keep and maintain the
licensed premises equipped with running hot and cold water and adequate
sanitary washing facilities for the cleansing of glasses and service utensils,
shall provide adequate toilet facilities for both males and females, and shall
otherwise comply with all health and sanitary requirements of this Code
applicable to the licensed business. All employees shall be clean in person and
clothing, and no person afflicted with any contagious or infectious disease in
communicable form shall be employed in or about the serving of liquor or in the
washing of glasses or other utensils. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-16: CHANGE OF LOCATION/CHANGE IN NONNATURAL LICENSEES:
No retail liquor license shall authorize any person or entity to engage in a
retail liquor dealer's business at any location, place or premises other than
that for which such license was issued except by permission of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, and provided further that such permission may be granted
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner only if the new location, place or
premises complies with the requirements for the issuance of an original
license.
All corporations, partnerships, copartnerships, limited liability companies, or
other nonnatural "persons" licensed by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
must report to the Local Commissioner within thirty (30) days all internal
changes in the corporation, partnership, copartnership, limited liability
company, or other nonnatural "person" pertaining to change of name, officers,
directors and stockholders holding in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the corporation stock, and shall include the name, home address, sex, date
of birth, social security number, position and percentage of ownership (if any)
not previously reported. In the event that the ownership of the licensee
corporation, partnership, copartnership, limited liability company, or other
nonnatural "person" licensed by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is by
another or other such corporations, partnerships, copartnerships, limited
liability companies, or other nonnatural "person", such licensee must report
the name, home address, sex, date of birth, social security number, position
and percentage of ownership (if any) of the individuals holding in the
aggregate more than a five percent (5%) ownership interest in the corporation,
partnership, copartnership, limited liability company, or other nonnatural
"person". (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-17: EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee, the licensee's manager or other person
in charge of the licensed premises to engage or employ or permit any minor to
sell or dispense alcoholic liquors for on premises consumption, or to entertain
or to act as host or hostess in or upon the licensed premises while open for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors. This restriction does not prohibit the
employment of minors in a licensed establishment, but no minor shall be allowed
to engage in the sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquors in any manner at any
time. (Ord. 2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-18: SOLICITORS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee, the licensee's manager, or other person
in charge of any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or offered
for sale for consumption thereon, to engage, employ or permit the engagement or
employment of any solicitor, or permit any other solicitor to remain in said
premises, who shall solicit any patron or customer thereof to purchase
alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor for the solicitor, the patron or customer, or
any other person therein, provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall prohibit any adult manager, waiter or waitress who shall be regularly
employed therein from accepting and serving the order of a patron or customer
in the regular course of employment as such manager, waiter or waitress. (Ord.
2005-21, 2-2-2006)
5-24-19: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person
or to any person known by him or her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift,
insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No
person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell,
give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years except in the performance of a religious ceremony or
service. For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee, or his or her agent or employee shall refuse to sell, deliver, or
serve alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate
written evidence of identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of
twenty-one (21) years, if requested by the licensee, agent, employee, or
representative. Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is
a document issued by a federal, state, county, or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the federal
selective service act, or an identification card issued to a member of the
armed forces.
   Proof that the licensee, or the licensee's employee or agent was shown and
reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction forbidden by
this section is an affirmative defense in any proceedings for the suspension or
revocation of any license based thereon. It shall not, however, be an
affirmative defense if the agent or employee accepted the written evidence
knowing it to be false or fraudulent. No agent or employee of the licensee
shall be disciplined or discharged for selling or furnishing liquor to a person
under twenty-one (21) years of age if the agent or employee demanded and was
shown, before furnishing liquor to a person under twenty-one (21) years of age,
adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person unless the agent or
employee accepted the written evidence knowing it to be false or fraudulent.
   (B)   No licensee or employee or other agent of a licensee shall:
      (1)   Solicit, induce or request any patron of the licensed establishment
to purchase any alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverage for himself or herself or
any other employee of the licensed establishment; or
      (2)   Knowingly serve to any employee any alcoholic or nonalcoholic
beverage which was purchased by any patron.
   (C)   No licensee, manager or barkeeper of a licensed establishment shall
permit any employee to remain on the premises of the licensed establishment who
solicits, induces or requests a patron to purchase an alcoholic or nonalcoholic
beverage for any employee. Nothing in this subsection prohibits the above
activities where the patron and employee are related by blood or marriage.
   (D)   No person licensed under this chapter shall permit any employee,
entertainer or patron to engage in any live act, demonstration, dance or
exhibition on the licensed premises which exposes to public view:
      1.   Such person's genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum and anal
region or pubic hair region; or
      2.   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region.
      3.   For purposes of this section, any of the items described in
subsections (D)1. or (D)2. shall be considered exposed to public view if it is
uncovered or is less than completely and opaquely covered.
   (E)   No licensee, or employee or agent of a licensee, shall sell, expose or
offer for sale alcoholic liquor whose alcohol content determined by volume
exceeds 76 percent, or grain alcohol regardless of proof, in any container with
a capacity of less than eight ounces.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of a licensee to sell, give, offer or
expose for sale, or deliver any novelty-type alcoholic liquor container that,
by virtue of the material from which it is composed or by its shape or design,
or that by its ordinary and customary use is likely to mislead the consumer as
to the alcoholic character of the product, except for consumption on the
licensed premises. A "novelty-type" container is an alcoholic liquor container
which uses the same shape or design as another non-alcoholic food product, but
does not include cans or bottles or other containers as allowed by this
section. The local liquor control commissioner shall have the authority to
publish regulations for implementation of this subsection, including
identifying specific products and categories of products falling within the
prohibition.
   (G)   No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall permit any person to carry a concealed
firearm on the licensed premises.
      1.   The owner or lessee of the premises or place of business operating
under a Village's retailer's license for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall
post a sign indicating that firearms are prohibited on the property. Signs
stating that the carrying of firearms is prohibited shall be clearly and
conspicuously posted at the entrance of a building, premises, or real property
in accordance with Illinois Public Act 098-0063, entitled the "Firearm
Concealed Carry Act." Signs shall be of a uniform design as established by the
Illinois Department of State Police and shall be four inches by six inches (4"
x 6") in size.
      2.   The prohibition against the carrying of a concealed firearm on the
licensed premised shall not apply to:
         (a)   persons holding a package goods license; or
         (b)   premises on which the carrying of concealed firearms is
permitted by:
            (i)   individuals authorized to carry a firearm under Section 24-
2 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012;
            (ii)   retired law enforcement officers qualified under federal law
to carry a concealed firearm; or
            (iii)   the owner, lessee, tenant or operator of the licensed
premises or the agents thereof if otherwise legally permitted to carry a
concealed firearm. (Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-2021)
5-24-20: ILLEGAL CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES – COOPERATION WITH POLICE:
   (A)   No licensee shall permit or allow any illegal activity on the licensed
premises.
   (B)   Each licensee, and each employee or other agent of the licensee have
an affirmative duty to report promptly to the police department all illegal
activity reported to or observed by the licensee, employee or other agent on or
within sight of the licensed premises; to answer fully and truthfully all
questions of an identified police officer who inquires or investigates
concerning persons or events in or around the licensed business; to cooperate
with the police in any such inquiry or investigation, including the giving of
oral or written statements to the police at reasonable times and locations in
the course of investigations; and to sign a complaint against any person whom
the licensee observes in any illegal conduct or activity on or within sight of
the licensed premises.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, "licensee" includes an employee and any
other agent of a licensee. (Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-2021)
5-24-21: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS APPLICABLE:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the general licensing provisions of the
Village Code now or hereafter in force shall govern and apply to all retail
liquor licenses. (Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-2021)
5-24-22: CLOSING HOURS:
Except as provided for the Class B1 liquor license, it is unlawful to sell,
permit to be sold, give away or otherwise dispense any alcoholic beverages
during the following hours:
   (A)   Two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. local time,
Monday through Saturday of each week.
   (B)   Three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. local time, on
Sunday of each week.
With respect to the Class B1 liquor license, the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises and not for resale in any form, and
limited to the service and consumption of liquor at private, invitation-only
banquets or gatherings held in the licensee's business premises or hall shall
be permitted during the following hours only:
   (A)   Between twelve o'clock (12:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. local
time, Sunday through Thursday of each week; and
   (B)   Between twelve o'clock (12:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
local time, Friday and Saturday of each week.
During such prohibited hours of sale, every location, place or premises, where
alcoholic liquor may be sold at retail shall be kept closed, and no person
other than the licensee or an employee or a member of the immediate family of
the licensee shall be permitted to remain therein. All doors directly opening
into or out of such location, place or premises for ingress thereto or egress
therefrom shall be securely locked during the prohibited hours of sale. The
provisions of this section relating to the closing of the premises and the
locking of the doors shall not apply to restaurants and hotels licensed as food
dispensers, nor to clubs, drugstores, and delicatessen stores. (Ord. 2021-11,
4-15-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-14, 7-6-2023)
5-24-23: SUNDAY SALES:
Subject to the regulations contained in this code, licensees are authorized to
sell and dispense alcoholic liquor at retail on Sundays. (Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-
2021)
5-24-24: ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS:
   (A)   A licensee or an officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or
employee of a licensee may sell, give, dispense or deliver alcoholic liquor to
a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years or authorize the sale, gift, or
delivery of alcoholic liquor to a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years
pursuant to a plan or action to investigate, patrol, or otherwise conduct a
"sting operation" or enforcement action against a person employed by the
licensee or on any licensed premises if the licensee or officer, associate,
member, representative, agent, or employee of the licensee provides written
notice, at least fourteen (14) days before the "sting operation" or enforcement
action to the village police department and the local liquor control
commissioner. Notice provided under this section shall be valid for a "sting
operation" or enforcement action conducted within sixty (60) days of the
provision of that notice.
   (B)   The local liquor control commissioner or police department of the
village, in conjunction with the enforcement unit of the Illinois state police,
shall conduct alcohol and tobacco compliance operations to investigate whether
a licensee is furnishing: (1) alcoholic liquor to persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age in violation of this act; or (2) tobacco to persons in violation
of the sale of tobacco to minors act. The model policy and guidelines of the
Illinois law enforcement training standards board for the operation of alcohol
and tobacco compliance checks by local law enforcement officers is hereby
adopted as the policy and guidelines of the village. (Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-2021)
5-24-25: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The local liquor control commissioner may revoke or suspend any issued license
if it is determined that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the
liquor control act, any valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the village,
or any applicable rule or regulations established by the Illinois liquor
control commission or local liquor control commissioner. In addition to the
suspension, the local liquor control commissioner may levy a fine on the
licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve (12) month period;
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a
twelve (12) month period; and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for
a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day on
which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more
than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of the license term. Proceeds from such fines shall
be paid into the village's general corporate fund. Suspensions or revocations
shall be imposed in accordance with the following procedures:
   (A)   Notice and Hearing: No such license shall be revoked or suspended and
no licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the local liquor
control commissioner with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee
affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings
shall be open to the public and the local liquor control commissioner shall
reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an official record of the
proceedings. If the local liquor control commissioner has reason to believe
that any continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately
threaten the welfare of the community, he or she may, upon the issuance of a
written order stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or
hearing order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days,
giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period, except that
if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or
businesses on the licensed premises such order shall not be applicable to such
other business or businesses.
   (B)   Written Decision And Appeal Therefrom: The local liquor control
commissioner shall within five (5) days after such hearing, if he or she
determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or suspended
or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason or reasons for such
determination in a written order, and either the amount of the fine, the period
of suspension, or that the license has been revoked, and shall serve a copy of
such order within the five (5) days upon the licensee. The licensee after the
receipt of such order of suspension or revocation shall have the privilege
within a period of twenty (20) days after the receipt of such order of
suspension or revocation of appealing the order to the Illinois liquor control
commission for a decision sustaining, reversing or modifying the order of the
local liquor control commissioner. If the Illinois liquor control commission
affirms the local commissioner's order to suspend or revoke the license at the
first hearing, the licensee shall cease to engage in the business for which the
license was issued, until the local commissioner's order is terminated by its
own provisions or reversed upon rehearing or by the courts.
   (C)   Appeal Limited to Review of Official Record: Any appeal shall be
limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings of the local
liquor control commissioner. A certified official record of the proceedings
taken and prepared by a certified court reporter or certified shorthand
reporter shall be filed by the local liquor control commissioner within five
(5) days after notice of the filing of such appeal, if the appellant licensee
pays for the cost of the transcript. (Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-2021)
5-24-26: REVOKED LICENSE:
When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to any person or entity for the period of one (1) year thereafter for
the conduct of the business of selling or dispensing of alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in the revoked license unless the revocation order has been
vacated or unless the revocation order was entered as to the licensee only.
This provision shall not prohibit the issuance of a retail license authorizing
the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if: (A) the primary
business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food where the sale of
liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the applicant is a completely new
owner of the restaurant; (B) the immediately prior owner or operator of the
premises where the restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant
and held a valid retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the
restaurant for at least part of the twenty four (24) months before the change
of ownership; and (C) the restaurant is located seventy five (75) or more feet
from a school. (Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-2021)
5-24-27: REVOCATION ORDER NOT STAYED BY APPEAL:
An order of the local liquor control commissioner revoking a village license
under this chapter shall take immediate effect if the local liquor control
commissioner finds that one or more of the following circumstances are present:
   (A)   The revocation is for violation of any federal or state law or village
ordinance regulating the sale, use or possession of firearms;
   (B)   The revocation is for violation of any federal or state law or village
ordinance regulating the sale, use or possession of narcotics or other
controlled substances as defined in the Illinois Criminal Code;
   (C)   The revocation is for violation of any federal or state law or village
ordinance relating to prostitution;
   (D)   The revocation is for sale of alcoholic liquor to a minor, and the
licensee was disciplined for three or more similar sales, occurring in separate
incidents, within the prior three years; and for purposes of this subsection
(D), "discipline" means revocation, suspension, a voluntary closing in lieu of
suspension, or imposition of a fine.
   (E)   The revocation is ordered pursuant to Section
5-1-15(C) because the premises is or caused a public nuisance;
   (F)   The revocation is for the failure to implement or maintain an adequate
exterior safety plan, or for any violation of any law or ordinance that the
local liquor control commissioner determines warrants immediate revocation of
that privilege;
   (G)   The revocation is for a violation of subsection (g) of Section
5-24-19.
In the event that a revocation order contains a finding described in this
section, the effect of the revocation shall not be stayed pending an appeal by
the licensee to the Illinois Liquor Control Commission under the Liquor Control
Act. (Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-2021)
5-24-28: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the authority to promulgate
rules and regulations necessary to implement the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-11, 4-15-2021)
CHAPTER 25
BEVERAGE PEDDLERS
SECTION:
5-25-1: Definition
5-25-2: License Required
5-25-3: Application
5-25-4: License Fee
5-25-5: Name and Address of Licensee
5-25-6: Sanitary Regulations
5-25-7: Revocation
5-25-1: DEFINITION:
Every person, firm or corporation, traveling from place to place, on, along or
upon the streets of the Village, who shall offer for sale, or deliver at retail
or wholesale from any wagon, automobile, or other vehicle to any retail dealer,
any beverages used for human consumption generally known as tonics, root beer,
ginger ale, pop, seltzer, mineral water, carbonated water and carbonated
drinks, shall be deemed a beverage peddler, except any one heretofore licensed
in the Village as a malt beverage peddler.
5-25-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell or offer for sale along any of the streets of the Village,
any of the beverages mentioned in the preceding Section without having obtained
a license as a beverage peddler, as hereinafter provided.
5-25-3: APPLICATION:
Every person who desires a license as a beverage peddler shall make application
in writing on a blank furnished by the Clerk setting out in such application
the full name and residence of such applicant, and shall also state in what
kinds of beverages such peddler desires or intends to deal. Upon receipt of
such application and the payment by such applicant to the Clerk of the full
annual license fee as hereinafter provided, the President and Clerk shall issue
or cause to be issued to such applicant a license authorizing such applicant to
engage in and carry on the business of beverage peddler described in the
application. (Ch. XLVI; Rev. Ord. 1939)
5-25-4: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee to engage in the business of a beverage peddler shall be
ten dollars ($10.00) for each wagon, automobile or other vehicle used in and
about said business, and the license period shall expire on the 30th day of
April of each year. (2-3-41)
5-25-5: NAME AND ADDRESS OF LICENSEE:
Every beverage peddler whose license entitles him to use a wagon, automobile or
other vehicle in and about his business shall have lettered upon said wagon,
automobile or other vehicle, the name of the person, operating the business,
and the address of the business.
5-25-6: SANITARY REGULATIONS:
All beverages carried on said wagon, automobile or vehicle for human
consumption shall be in bottles, barrels or containers sealed in secure manner,
so as to be free from any kind of contamination, and the wagon, automobile or
vehicle used shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and said wagon,
automobile or vehicle used shall be subject to inspection by the Health
Commissioner for the purpose of inspecting the same to see that the same is
operated in all respects in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
5-25-7: REVOCATION:
The President and Board of Trustees shall have the right to revoke the license
of any person, licensed under this Chapter, if the licensee has failed or
neglected to comply with this Chapter. (Ch. XLVI; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 26
RETAIL BEVERAGE DEALERS
SECTION:
5-26-1: Retail Beverage Dealer Defined
5-26-2: License Required
5-26-3: Fees
5-26-4: Sanitary Requirements
5-26-5: Assignment of License
5-26-1: RETAIL BEVERAGE DEALER DEFINED:
For the purpose of this Chapter, a retail beverage dealer shall be held to
include any person, firm or corporation, selling, offering for sale, or keeping
with the intention of selling at retail, either in bottles or other containers,
any malt, cereal or vinous non-toxicating beverages as defined by law, or any
soft drink, carbonated beverages, fruit juices, waters, milk, buttermilk,
chocolate, tea, bouillon or other beverages.
5-26-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a retail beverage dealer without
first having obtained a license for each stand, place, room or enclosure or for
each suite of rooms or enclosures which are in direct connection or
communication or contiguous to each other, and no license shall be issued to
any person, for the purpose of operating the business of retail beverage dealer
in any dwelling house, flat or apartment house. (Ch. XLV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
5-26-3: FEES:
A licensee fee for a retail beverage dealer shall be five dollars ($5.00). All
licenses issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall expire on April 30th
of each year. (2-3-41)
5-26-4: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Retail beverage dealers shall handle their merchandise and keep their premises
in accordance with the requirements of all sanitary and health regulations of
the Village.
5-26-5: ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE:
No license for the business of retail beverage dealer, issued under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be assigned, or transferred to any person nor
shall any such license authorize any person other than the licensee named
therein to do business or act under such license. (Ch. XLV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 27
UNDERTAKERS
SECTION:
5-27-1: Definition
5-27-2: Requirements
5-27-3: Application for License
5-27-4: License Fee
5-27-5: Sanitary Requirements
5-27-6: Notice to Police
5-27-7: Exhibition
5-27-1: DEFINITION:
An undertaker or embalmer is hereby defined to be any firm, person or
corporation who is engaged in the business of disposing of dead bodies.
5-27-2: REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall engage in the business of an undertaker or embalmer without
first having been qualified and having received the certificate required by an
Act of the Legislature of the State of Illinois entitled "An Act to Revise the
Law in Relation to the Regulation of the Practice of Embalming", approved June
14, 1919, nor without having secured a license from the Village to carry on
such business within the Village.
5-27-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person applying for a license as an undertaker, funeral director or
embalmer from the Department of Registration and Education of the State of
Illinois, as required by the above mentioned Act, shall state the name of such
applicant and the location where it is proposed to carry on the business.
5-27-4: LICENSE FEE:
Any person making the application in proper form shall pay a license fee to the
Clerk in the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) annually, and the Clerk shall
issue a license to such person. All such license fees shall be due on the 1st
day of January of each year and shall expire on the 31st day of December
following date of issuance. No body shall be embalmed or removed from the
Village except by a licensed undertaker. (11-20-47)
5-27-5: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Undertaking establishment shall be operated in compliance with the statutes of
the State of Illinois and the provisions of this Code which may apply to
undertaking establishments, and the Health Commissioner shall inspect the
establishment to see if all laws and regulations have been complied with and
that the place is conducted in a sanitary manner so as not to endanger public
health.
5-27-6: NOTICE TO POLICE:
It shall be the duty of every undertaker to notify the Police whenever a body
is brought to him or turned over to him for his services.
5-27-7: EXHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any undertaker to permit his establishment to be used
for the exhibition to the public of the body of deceased person. This shall not
be construed to prevent the display of any body to relatives and friends. (Ch.
XLIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)0
CHAPTER 28
BROKERS
SECTION:
5-28-1: Brokers Defined
5-28-2: License
5-28-3: Employees Acting as Brokers
5-28-4: Change of Location
5-28-5: Display of For Sale Signs Prohibited
5-28-1: BROKERS DEFINED:
Any person that negotiates, buys, sells, trades, leases or handles for another,
on a commission basis, or on the basis of compensation in proportion to the
amount of the transaction, any stocks, bonds, mortgages, loans, investment
securities, certificates of indebtedness, foreign exchange letters of credit,
steamship transportation tickets, grain, produce, provisions, livestock, goods,
wares, merchandise or any other commodity, article or property (except real
property), whether like or unlike those herein named, or acts through the
medium of another licensed Broker in the capacity and for any of the purposes
aforesaid, is hereby defined as a General Broker.
A Real Estate Broker is one who is engaged for others in negotiating contracts
relative to real estate.
An Insurance Broker shall include any and every person or corporation engaged
for others in negotiating contracts for insurance of any kind or nature, either
directly or through an insurance agent or with any insurance company other than
an insurance company of which such person shall be an employee.
5-28-2: LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or act in the
capacity of a Broker, as herein defined, without first obtaining a license
therefor.
Application for such license shall be made in writing to the Clerk, and upon
the payment to him of the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00), a license shall
be issued to the applicant by the Clerk. Every such license shall expire on the
30th day of April next after its issuance. Such application shall state the
name of the person or persons or corporation and the location of the place or
places of business for which such license is desired.
5-28-3: EMPLOYEES ACTING AS BROKERS:
Any person employed by a person or corporation licensed as a Broker under the
provisions of this Chapter, who shall himself engage in business or act in the
capacity of a Broker, shall notwithstanding the fact of such employment be
amenable to all the provisions of this Chapter and shall be required to take
out a Broker's license.
5-28-4: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
If after the issuance and delivery of a license under the provisions of this
Chapter any change shall be made in the place or places of business covered
thereby, no business shall be carried on in such new location until a notice
shall have been given in writing to the Clerk. (Ch. LXVII, Rev. Ord. 1939)
5-28-5: DISPLAY OF FOR SALE SIGNS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person licensed as a "Real Estate Broker" to construct,
place, maintain or install a "FOR SALE" sign or "SOLD" sign of any shape, size
or form on premises located in Residential Districts, under this Code.
For the purposes of this Section the "signs" above mentioned are hereby defined
to mean any structure, and all parts composing the same, together with the
frame, background or supports therefor which are used for advertising or
display purposes, or any statuary, sculpture, molding or casting used for
advertising or display purposes, or any flags, bunting or material used for
display or advertising purposes, including, but not limited to, placards,
cards, structures or areas carrying the following or similar words: "FOR SALE",
"SOLD", "OPEN HOUSE", "HOME INSPECTION", "VISITORS INVITED", "INSTALLED BY", or
"BUILT BY". (Ord. 1972-22, 11-30-72)
CHAPTER 29
TAXICABS
SECTION:
5-29-1: Definitions
5-29-2: Safe and Adequate Service
5-29-3: Jurisdiction
5-29-4: License for Vehicles; Application for
5-29-5: Inspection Before Licensing Vehicles
5-29-5:1: Taximeter Inspection Fee
5-29-6: Conditions to Licensing
5-29-7: License Card or Plate
5-29-8: Fees for Licensing Vehicles
5-29-9: Register of Licensed Vehicles
5-29-10: Inspection of Taxicabs
5-29-11: Suspension and Revocation of Taxicab Licenses
5-29-12: Declaration of Convenience and Necessity
5-29-13: Grounds for Declaration of Convenience and Necessity
5-29-14: Proceedings after Hearing on Convenience and Necessity
5-29-15: Taxicab Service; Abandonment
5-29-16: Drivers' Licenses; Application for
5-29-17: Examination of Drivers
5-29-18: Driver's License; Photograph
5-29-19: Further Requirements of Driver's License
5-29-20: Badge for Drivers
5-29-21: Renewal of Drivers' Licenses
5-29-22: Fees for Drivers' Licenses
5-29-23: Suspension or Revocation of Drivers' Licenses
5-29-24: Record of Drivers Licenses
5-29-25: Hack Stands
5-29-26: Regulations of Hacks at Stands; Lost Package or Baggage
5-29-27: Cruising and Soliciting
5-29-28: Taximeters
5-29-29: Taximeters to be Tested Before Using
5-29-30: Illumination of Dial
5-29-31: False Signal
5-29-32: Unapproved Taximeter
5-29-33: Violations
5-29-34: Rates of Fares
5-29-35: Prepayment of Fare
5-29-36: Overcharge
5-29-37: Accident Report
5-29-1: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   TAXICAB: All public vehicles driven by mechanical power used for the
carriage of persons for hire except those vehicles commonly known as busses.
   (B)   TAXIMETER: A mechanical instrument or device by which the charge for
hire of a taxicab is mechanically calculated, either for distance travelled or
for waiting time, or for both, and upon which such charge shall be indicated by
means of figures.
   (C)   PUBLIC HACK: A vehicle plying for hire, for which public patronage is
solicited upon the streets.
   (D)   OWNER: Every person, firm or corporation having the use or control of
one or more taxicabs or public hacks as herein defined.
5-29-2: SAFE AND ADEQUATE SERVICE:
Every owner is required to furnish reasonably safe and adequate service at just
and reasonable rates within the Village as may be reasonably required to assure
adequate accommodations to the public in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter hereinafter provided.
5-29-3: JURISDICTION:
The licensing and inspecting of taxicabs, the examining of applicants for
licenses to drive such taxicabs, and the licensing of drivers as hereinafter
provided in this Chapter, and enforcing its provisions shall be under the
control of the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall have power to appoint
from the Police Department such inspectors as he may deem necessary for the
enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter, who shall serve as such as part
of their police duties. The inspecting and sealing of taximeters shall be under
the jurisdiction of the Inspector of Weights and Measures.
5-29-4: LICENSE FOR VEHICLES; APPLICATION FOR:
No taxicab shall ply upon the streets of the Village without first obtaining a
license from the Clerk. Such license shall be issued as of the calendar year,
and shall be effective for such period of time unless sooner suspended or
revoked. Application for licenses for the taxicabs shall be made to the Clerk
by the owner or operator thereof upon blank forms to be furnished by the Clerk,
and such application shall contain the full name and address of the owner or
operator, the class of the vehicle for which the license is desired, the length
of time the vehicle has been in use, the number of persons it is capable of
carrying, and, if a motor driven vehicle, the motor power thereof. Such
application shall thereupon be referred by the Clerk to the Chief of Police.
5-29-5: INSPECTION BEFORE LICENSING VEHICLE:
No vehicle shall be licensed until it has been thoroughly and carefully
inspected and examined and found to be in a thoroughly safe condition for the
transportation of passengers, clean, fit, of good appearance, and well painted.
No license shall be issued to any person having the name or color or colors of
their taxicab or taxicabs similar to that of any other person licensed to
operate a cab or cabs. The Chief of Police shall make or have made by his
inspectors such examination and inspection before a license shall be issued,
and the Inspector of Weights and Measures, or any inspector appointed by him,
shall examine any taximeter attached to any taxicab and see that the same is
accurate before the license to operate such taxicab is issued by the Clerk, and
report his findings to the Chief of Police. Upon approval of the application by
the Chief of Police, he shall so endorse such application and file the same
with the Clerk, who shall, upon payment of the prescribed fee, issue the
license in the manner provided by Section 5-29-7. The President shall revoke or
suspend the license of any taxicab found to be unfit or unsuited for public
patronage. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
5-29-5.1: TAXIMETER INSPECTION FEE:
The annual fee for the inspection of taximeters provided for herein shall be
two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) for each unit inspected. (Ord. 1975-11, 10-30-
75)
5-29-6: CONDITIONS TO LICENSING:
No person shall be licensed to operate a taxicab until the owner or operator
thereof has complied with all sections of this Chapter and with all sections of
the State Law pertaining to a surety bond or the insurance policy issued for
the benefit of any person or persons who might suffer damage by reason of the
operation of such vehicle or vehicles; provided, however, that the person
owning, controlling or operating such taxicab shall file with the Clerk a
continuing policy of insurance in full force and effect, in a solvent and
responsible company authorized to do business in the State, insuring such
person against liability in any injury to or death of any person from
negligence of the assured or the agents, servants and employees of the assured
in the operation of any taxicab during the license period. Said policy of
insurance may cover one or more taxicab vehicles and insure such person for a
sum not less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), for injuries to or death
of any one person (but may provide for maximum liability of one hundred
thousand dollars [$100,000.00] for any one accident). Said policy of insurance
shall provide for payment and satisfaction of any final judgment rendered
against the assured for such injury or death, and shall provide that suit may
be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction upon such insurance policies
by the owner of any such judgment. Said policy of insurance shall also contain
a provision that the same cannot be cancelled by the issuing company without
giving ten (10) days notice in writing of such cancellation to the assured and
the Clerk, either personally or by registered mail. Before issuing such license
the applicant shall submit to the Clerk the approval of such bond by the
Secretary of State, or proof of the issuance of such insurance policy.
5-29-7: LICENSE CARD OR PLATE:
The license to be issued by the Clerk as hereinabove provided shall be in the
form of a card or plate which shall contain the official license number of the
taxicab, together with the date of the inspection. Such card shall be signed by
the Clerk and shall contain blank space upon which an entry shall be made of
the date of inspection of the said taxicab by the Chief of Police or an
Inspector appointed by him. License cards shall be of a distinctly different
color each year, and in the case of taxicabs, the license number assigned
thereto shall in each case by the same as that issued to the vehicle for that
year pursuant to law. Such cards shall be affixed to a conspicuous and
indispensable part of each taxicab. The design of such plates should be changed
annually.
5-29-8: FEES FOR LICENSING VEHICLES:
In addition to all license fees, every licensee shall pay to the Village
quarterly in advance, the sum of six dollars fifty cents ($6.50), for each
taxicab of the licensee, for compensation for use of the streets and other
publicways by authority of this Chapter, and compensation herein provided for
shall be paid on the first day of January, March, July and October of each
calendar year.
5-29-9: REGISTER OF LICENSED VEHICLES:
The Clerk and Chief of Police shall keep a register of the name and address of
each person owning or operating a vehicle licensed under the provisions of this
Chapter, together with the license number and the description, make any
necessary dimensions of such vehicle, with the date and complete record of
inspections made of it. Such records shall be open to the inspection of the
public at all reasonable times, and shall be public records, extracts of which
may be certified for use as evidence by the Clerk.
5-29-10: INSPECTION OF TAXICABS:
The Chief of Police shall maintain constant vigilance over all taxicabs, see
that they are kept in a condition of continued fitness for public use, and to
this end the Chief of Police or his inspectors shall inspect all taxicabs from
time to time, or on the complaint of any person or persons, or as often as may
be necessary. At least twice in each year the Chief of Police shall make a
written report of all such inspections to the President and Board of Trustees.
5-29-11: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF TAXICAB LICENSES:
Licenses granted under the provisions of this Chapter are subject to revocation
at any time by the President for good cause shown and, if it shall have been
determined that said taxicab is not in good condition for operation. Licenses
when so revoked or suspended shall not be reissued until the cause for such
revocation shall have been removed to the satisfaction of the President.
5-29-12: DECLARATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY; LIMITATION TO NUMBER:
The number of taxicabs for the Village is limited to one for each five hundred
(500) inhabitants, and veterans of World War I and World War II, honorably
discharged from the services, shall have preference in obtaining licenses under
provisions of this Chapter.
5-29-13: GROUNDS FOR DECLARATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY:
In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the licensing
of such taxicabs for which application may be made, the President and Board of
Trustees shall take into consideration whether the demands of public
convenience and necessity require such proposed or such additional taxicab
service within the Village, the financial responsibility of the applicant; the
number, kind, type of equipment; the schedule of maximum rates proposed to be
charged, the color scheme to be used by the applicant; the increased traffic
congestion and demand for increased parking spaces on the streets of the
Village which may result; and whether the safe use of the streets by the
public, both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved by the granting of
such additional license; and such other relevant facts as the President and
Board of Trustees may deem advisable or necessary.
5-29-14: PROCEEDINGS AFTER HEARING ON CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY:
If the President and Board of Trustees find from the investigation and hearing
that the public convenience and necessity justify the operation of the vehicle
for which license is desired, it shall notify the applicant of its finding.
Within sixty (60) days thereafter, the applicant shall furnish to the President
and Board of Trustees any and all additional information which may be required,
and if the President and Board of Trustees then find that the applicant is the
owner and bona fide operator of the vehicle for which license is desired, and
that such vehicle complies with all of the provisions of this Code, license
shall thereupon be issued to the said applicant upon the payment of the proper
license fee.
If the President and Board of Trustees find from such investigation and hearing
that the public convenience and necessity do not justify the operation of the
vehicle for which license is desired, it shall forthwith notify the applicant
of said finding.
5-29-15: TAXICAB SERVICE; ABANDONMENT:
The applicant shall regularly and dally operate his or its licensed taxicabs
during each day of the licensed year to the extent reasonably necessary to meet
the public demand for such taxicab service. Upon complete abandonment of
taxicab service for the period of ten (10) consecutive days by the owner or
operator of such taxicab service, the Chief of Police, upon hearing after five
(5) days notice to the said owner or operator, shall thereupon recommend to the
President of the Village, that the license of such owner or operator shall be
revoked.
5-29-16: DRIVERS' LICENSES; APPLICATION FOR:
Every person driving a taxicab must be licensed as such. Each applicant for a
driver's license must:
   (A)   Be of the age of twenty-one (21) years or over.
   (B)   Be of sound physique with good eyesight, and not subject to epilepsy,
vertigo, heart trouble, or any other infirmity of body or mind which might
render him unfit for the safe operation of a taxicab.
   (C)   Be able to read, write and speak the English language.
   (D)   Be clean in dress and person and not addicted to the use of
intoxicating liquors.
   (E)   Any person desiring to secure a license as a driver or operator of any
public vehicle licensed hereunder and used for the carriage of passengers for
hire or reward, shall make application in writing therefor the Clerk, upon a
form to be provided by the said Clerk. Such application shall set forth the
name of the applicant, his residence and occupation, and shall be endorsed by
at least two (2) responsible citizens of the Village, who shall certify that
the applicant is a man of good habits, honest, sober and industrious and a fit
person to drive or operate a passenger vehicle.
   (F)   Along with such application, the applicant shall file an affidavit
stating his full name, residence, places of residence during the previous five
years, age, color, height, color of eyes and hair, place of birth, whether a
citizen of the United States, places of previous employment, whether married or
single, whether he has ever been convicted of a felony as a driver or chauffeur
and if so, whether his license has ever been revoked and for what cause, which
affidavit shall be filed with the Clerk as a permanent record. Any wilfully
false statement sworn to by the applicant shall be reported by the President to
the States Attorney of Cook County, Illinois.
   (G)   Such applicant shall also file with his application to the Clerk two
recent photographs of himself, of a size which may be easily attached to his
license, one of which shall be attached to the license when issued, and the
other shall be filed with the application in the office of the Clerk.
   (H)   Such application, affidavit and photograph shall be referred to the
Chief of Police, who shall investigate the qualifications of the applicant, and
the truth of his statements contained in said application and affidavit.
5-29-17: EXAMINATION OF DRIVERS:
Each applicant for driver's license under the provisions of this Chapter shall
produce a medical statement certifying as to his physical condition, and shall
be examined by the Chief of Police, or someone by him designated, as to
applicant's knowledge of the provisions of this Chapter, the traffic
regulations, and the geography of the Village. If the medical statement or the
results of the examination be unsatisfactory, the applicant shall be refused a
license. Each such applicant must demonstrate his skill and ability to safely
handle his vehicle by driving it through a crowded section of the Village
accompanied by an inspector, or other representative of the Chief of Police. If
the Chief of Police shall approve the application, he shall endorse thereon
such approval, and return same, together with the affidavit and photographs, to
the Clerk, who shall issue such license in the manner provided by this Chapter.
5-29-18: DRIVER'S LICENSE; PHOTOGRAPH:
The license issued by the Clerk shall have attached thereto one of the
photographs of the driver, deposited with him, in such manner that it cannot be
removed, and another photograph substituted without detection. Each licensed
driver shall upon demand of an inspector of licenses, a policeman, or a
passenger, exhibit his license and photograph for inspection. Where the
application for a license is denied, the photograph shall be returned to the
applicant by the Clerk.
5-29-19: FURTHER REQUIREMENTS OF DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Such driver's license shall also be in such form as to contain the signature of
the licensee and blank spaces upon which a record may be made of any arrest or
of serious complaint against him. Any licensee who defaces, removes, or
obliterates any official entry made upon his license shall be punished by the
revocation of his license. Drivers' licenses shall be issued as of February 1st
in each and every year, and shall be valid to and including the 31st day of
January next succeeding.
5-29-20: BADGE FOR DRIVERS:
Every person licensed as a driver or operator under the provisions of this
Chapter shall at all times while acting as driver or operator of any vehicle
licensed under the provisions of this Chapter wear a metal badge at least one
and three quarters inches (13/4") long and one and one eighth inches (11/8")
wide, having a number thereon corresponding to the number of such driver's
license.
Such badge shall be provided with a pin or other fastening, and shall be worn
in a conspicuous place on the outside of the outside coat, and shall be of a
different design for each year. Such badge shall be obtained from the Clerk.
Where any driver has obtained a similar badge in any other municipality of Cook
County, Illinois, it shall not be necessary for him to obtain the badge
described in this Section above, but he must at all times wear the badge of
this or such other municipality.
5-29-21: RENEWAL OF DRIVERS' LICENSES:
The President may renew a driver's license from year to year by appropriate
endorsement thereon. A driver in applying for a renewal of his license shall
make such an application upon a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk,
entitled, "Application for Renewal of License," which shall be filled out with
the full name and address of the applicant, together with a statement of the
date upon which his original license was granted, and the number thereof.
5-29-22: FEES FOR DRIVERS' LICENSE:
The following license fees shall be paid for drivers' licenses: For each
original license, one dollar ($1.00); for each renewal thereof, one dollar
($1.00).
5-29-23: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF DRIVERS' LICENSES:
A driver's license may be suspended or revoked at any time by the President of
the Village for cause. Any such suspension shall be noted on the license,
together with a statement of the reasons therefor, and the driver shall be
deprived of his badge by the officer suspending or revoking such license. No
driver whose license has been revoked shall again be licensed as a public
taxicab driver in the Village unless upon presentation of reasons satisfactory
to the President or in a case where the license has been suspended or revoked
by the President, the approval of the President shall be necessary before the
restoration or reissuance of said license. The President shall notify the
Police Department when any such license is revoked. If any licensed driver
shall change his residence at any time before the expiration of his license, he
shall forthwith notify the Chief of Police of such act.
5-29-24: RECORD OF DRIVERS LICENSES:
There shall be kept in the office of the Clerk and the Police Department, a
complete record of each license issued to a driver and of all renewals,
suspensions or revocations thereof. The Clerk's record shall be kept on file
with the original application of the driver for a license.
5-29-25: HACK STANDS:
No person shall make use of any public street for a hack stand without first
obtaining permission so to do from the President and Board of Trustees,
covering the locations, the manner of using such space and the time. Such
permission shall be revocable at any time.
5-29-26: REGULATIONS OF HACKS AT STANDS; LOST PACKAGE OR BAGGAGE:
   (A)   Only taxicabs in such numbers and of such kinds as are set forth on
the metal sign may remain at the stand while waiting for employment, and only
in single file pointed in accordance with the traffic regulations. No taxicab
standing at the head of any such line shall refuse to carry any orderly person
applying for a taxicab who agrees to pay the proper fare, but this shall not
prevent any person from selecting any taxicab he may desire on the stand,
whether it be at the head of the line or not. As the taxicabs leave the line
with passengers those behind shall move up, and any taxicab seeking a space on
the stand shall approach same only from the rear of the stand and shall stop as
near as possible to the last cab already on the line. No taxicab shall stand at
the curb within fifteen feet (15') of the entrance to any building adjacent to
a taxicab stand located and designated by the President and Board of Trustees
in accordance with the preceding section which shall be determined by measuring
fifteen feet (15') on each side of the point of the curb opposite the middle of
the entrance to the adjacent building. No taxicab shall stand within five feet
(5') of any crosswalk. No private vehicle shall be permitted to stand or use
the space in a public stand except to receive or discharge passengers or
merchandise.
   (B)   Whenever any package or article of baggage, or goods of any kind shall
be left in or on any such taxicab or other licensed vehicle for the conveyance
of passengers, or whenever any such package or article shall be left in the
custody of the driver thereof, such driver shall, upon the discovery of such
package or article, forthwith deliver the same to the police station of the
Village, unless such package or article shall be sooner delivered to the owner
thereof, or upon the order of such owner.
The owner or driver of any such vehicle violating the provisions of this
Section shall be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) for each and every offense.
The President upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police may suspend or
revoke the license of any public taxicab driver who shall stand in front of the
entrance of any building within the prohibited space after his passengers
desiring to leave have alighted, or who shall attempt to stand in said
prohibited space waiting for passengers or who shall violate any of the other
provisions of this Chapter.
5-29-27: CRUISING AND SOLICITING:
No taxicab while waiting for employment by passengers shall stand on any public
street or place other than at or upon a public taxicab stand designated or
established in accordance with the provisions of this Code, nor shall any
driver of such taxicab seek employment by repeatedly and persistently driving
his taxicab about the streets near a stand, or otherwise interfere with the
proper and orderly access to or egress from any theatre, hall, hotel, public
resort, railway station, or other place of public gathering. No person shall be
allowed to ride on the box with the driver.
5-29-28: TAXIMETERS:
Each taxicab must have affixed thereto and in good working order a taximeter
and must be licensed in accordance with the terms of this Chapter.
5-29-29: TAXIMETERS TO BE TESTED BEFORE USING:
No person owning or operating any taxicab shall offer or let the same for hire
or reward unless the taximeter placed, attached or installed therein, has been
inspected and tested by said Inspector and no such person shall detach any
certified or inspected taximeter from any taxicab and attach the same to any
other taxicab the front wheels of which are of different diameter from those
with reference to which said taximeter was originally tested, unless a new
inspection or certification is had on such taximeter.
5-29-30: ILLUMINATION OF DIAL:
Each taxicab shall, during the period between sunset and sunrise, be equipped
with a light which shall be so reflected upon the dial of the taximeter as to
enable the passenger or passengers engaging and using such taxicab to read the
figures indicated thereon.
Every taximeter hereafter placed on a taxicab shall be so arranged that the
dial thereof is in plain view of the passenger while riding in such taxicab, or
upon alighting from the same.
5-29-31: FALSE SIGNAL:
No driver of a taxicab equipped with a taximeter or other similar device while
carrying passengers or under employment shall display the signal affixed to
such taximeter or other similar device in such position as to denote that he is
employed at a rate of fare different from that to which he is entitled under
the provisions of this Chapter.
5-29-32: UNAPPROVED TAXIMETER:
No person shall drive a taxicab to which is attached a taximeter that has not
been duly inspected and approved.
5-29-33: VIOLATIONS:
A violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall render the offender
or offenders liable, upon conviction before any Police Magistrate, to a fine of
not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each offense.
5-29-34: RATES OF FARES:
No person owning, operating or controlling any motor vehicle operated as a
taxicab shall charge to exceed the following rates to be determined by the
taximeter:
For the first one-half mile or fraction thereof, for one person   $0.40
For each succeeding quarter mile or fraction thereof   .10
For each additional person for the whole journey   .20
For each three minutes of waiting, or fraction thereof   .10
Waiting time shall include the time when the taxicab is not in motion,
beginning with the arrival at the place to which it had been called, or the
time consumed while standing at the direction of the passenger, or time
consumed while standing because of conditions beyond control of the operator,
but no charge shall be made for time lost for inefficiency of the taxicab or
its operator, or time consumed by premature response to a call. The above
charges shall be for one person.
Where any such taxicab is hired by the hour, the charge shall not exceed two
dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) an hour for not to exceed four passengers, and
twenty-five cents (25¢) an hour additional for each passenger in excess of
four.
The rate to be charged for the use of a touring car having a seating capacity
of five passengers and carrying not more than four passengers, shall not exceed
three dollars ($3.00) an hour with an extra charge of fifty cents (50¢) an hour
for each passenger in excess of four, and the rate to be charged for the use of
a touring car having a seating capacity for more than five passengers and
carrying not more than six passengers shall not exceed four dollars ($4.00) an
hour, with an extra charge of fifty cents (50¢) an hour for each passenger in
excess of six.
If demanded by the passenger, the driver in charge of a taxicab shall deliver
to the person paying for the hiring of the same at the time of such payment, a
receipt therefor in legible type or writing containing the name of the owner or
operator, the Village license number or the driver's Village license number, or
the taximeter number and any items for which a charge is made, the total amount
paid, and the date of payment.
5-29-35: PREPAYMENT OF FARE:
Every driver of a taxicab shall have a right to demand payment of the legal
fare in advance, and may refuse employment unless so prepaid, but no driver of
a taxicab shall otherwise refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person or
persons upon request anywhere in the Village unless previously engaged or
unable to do so. No driver of a licensed taxicab shall carry any other person
than the first passenger first employing the taxicab without the consent of
said passenger.
5-29-36: OVERCHARGE:
No person shall charge or attempt to charge any passenger a greater rate of
fare than that to which the taxicab is entitled under the provisions of this
Chapter.
5-29-37: ACCIDENT REPORT:
If shall be the duty of every driver to report in writing to the Commissioner
of Police upon forms to be furnished by the Department of Police, all injuries
(whether to persons or property), accidents or casualties in which the vehicle
driven by him was involved, directly or indirectly, within twelve hours of the
happening thereof, giving in detail the time, place, nature and cause of the
injury, accident or casualty, a description of the property injured, or the
name and address of the person injured or killed, together with the name,
address and license number of the driver submitting such report. Physical
disability alone shall constitute excuse for noncompliance with the foregoing
provision. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 30
LIVERY BUSINESS
SECTION:
5-30-1: License Required
5-30-2: License Application
5-30-3: Investigation
5-30-4: Revocation of License
5-30-5: License Term
5-30-6: License Fee
5-30-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, operate, or conduct a livery business without first
having obtained a license.
5-30-2: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Anyone who desires such a license, shall make application in writing to the
Clerk, setting forth in said application the name and address of the applicant
and the address at which the said business is to be located, the name and
address of all employees of the applicant, the name and address of the firm or
corporation the applicant represents, and the number of vehicles that the
applicant will have engaged in said business.
5-30-3: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of an application for, and prior to the issuance of a license, the
Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of the applicant, his or its
employees, and the firm or corporation he represents to determine the character
and reputation of such applicant, firm, or corporation, and to determine
whether the intended business, or its operation, shall be detrimental to the
health, morals, or general welfare of the Village. As a part of this
investigation, the finger prints of any applicant and all employees shall be
taken, and it shall be determined therefrom whether such applicant or any
employee has a criminal record of any kind. Upon the completion of the
investigation, the Clerk shall cause a written report to be submitted to the
Board of Trustees, who shall consider the same and who may grant or refuse such
license. The Clerk may, in the event that a person re-applies for a license in
consecutive periods, without any license period intervening in which a license
is not issued, accept the results of the investigation made at the time of the
original application in lieu of a new investigation.
5-30-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to
revocation for cause by the Board of Trustees at anytime. In case of
revocation, no part of the license fee shall be returned.
5-30-5: LICENSE TERM:
Said Licenses issued shall be for a period of one year from the date of issue.
5-30-6: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for such license issued shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one
year. (2-7-57)
CHAPTER 31
SECONDHAND CAR DEALERS
SECTION:
5-31-1: License Required
5-31-2: Definitions
5-31-3: Application For License
5-31-4: License To Be Approved By Village Board
5-31-5: Grounds For Refusal To Issue Or Renew License
5-31-6: License Fee
5-31-7: License; Expiration; Assignment
5-31-8: License Restrictions
5-31-9: Number Of Licenses (Rep. by Ord. 1997-09, 9-4-1997)
5-31-10: No Transaction With Minors
5-31-11: Receiving Stolen Vehicles; Penalty
5-31-12: Sale By Auction; Permit Required
5-31-13: Application For Permit To Sell By Auction
5-31-14: Inventory
5-31-15: Issuance Of Permit
5-31-16: Bond
5-31-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to construct, manage, conduct or operate a motor
vehicle salesroom within this Village without first having obtained a license
as provided for herein. (Ord. 1965-29, 10-21-1965)
5-31-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the respectively
ascribed meanings:
BUSINESS: Buying, selling, exchanging or receiving into possession of new or
used or secondhand motor vehicles or any of the parts or accessories thereof.
MOTOR VEHICLE SALESROOM: Any building structure, premises, enclosure, lot or
other place within the Village where the business of dealing in new or used or
secondhand motor vehicles or any of the parts or accessories thereof is
conducted or operated. (Ord. 1965-29, 10-21-1965)
5-31-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be made in writing to the Clerk and shall
state thereon:
   (A)   Name: The name of the applicant, and, if a corporation, the names of
the principal officers and the name of one or more persons whom the corporation
shall designate as manager or person in charge.
   (B)   Location: The location of the place or premises at or on which it is
desired to carry on such business.
   (C)   Time Of Residency: The length of time which the applicant has resided
in the Village, or, if a corporation or association, the length of time which
the manager or person or persons in charge has resided in the Village.
   (D)   Location Of Place Of Business: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to engage in the business of buying, selling, exchanging or
dealing in used or secondhand motor vehicles, and used or secondhand parts of
motor vehicles, upon any premises, except upon the written consent of the
majority of the property owners, according to the frontage, on both sides of
the street, avenue or alley, and within four hundred feet (400') from the
middle of the premises on which the said business is conducted, in each
direction.
   (E)   Type Of Shop: What type of shop the applicant maintains in connection
with his principal place of business, and whether it is equipped to service and
repair the types and makes of cars which the applicant intends to sell;
provided, however, that in lieu of such facilities, such dealer may have a
written contract with a motor vehicle repair establishment to carry out any
warranties made.
   (F)   General Information: Such other reasonable and pertinent information
as the Village Board may from time to time require. (Ord., 6-15-1950)
5-31-4: LICENSE TO BE APPROVED BY VILLAGE BOARD:
Such application, when filed, shall be referred to the Village Board and the
License Committee thereof, and said Committee shall make an investigation of
same, and, if it shall appear that all the sections relating to the licenses
and the premises have been conformed with, the Village Board may authorize the
President to grant a license to said applicant, attested by the Clerk,
authorizing such applicant to engage in the business for which he has applied
for his license in the place or premises designated in the license and for the
period therein stated, upon payment by the applicant to the Village of the fee
hereinafter provided; provided, however, that the Clerk may grant a renewal of
any license issued hereunder if the applicant complied with all the provisions
of this Chapter.
It shall be the duty of the License Committee, upon investigation of such
application, to decide whether:
   (A)   Said applicant is a person of good moral character, or, if a
partnership, if said partners are of good moral character.
   (B)   The applicant is a bona fide resident of the State of Illinois.
   (C)   The applicant has shop facilities in connection with its principal
place of business, equipped and operated so as to satisfactorily repair and
service the makes and types of cars which it proposes to sell; provided,
however, that in lieu of such facilities, such dealer may have a written
contract with a motor vehicle repair establishment to carry out any warranties
made.
   (D)   The applicant has sufficient area to conduct the business and that the
business operation will not adversely affect the surrounding area in which the
business is to be conducted.
   (E)   Applicant shall have sufficient area to provide parking for all
employee vehicles upon the premises to be licensed and parking for one customer
car for each three (3) cars being offered for sale. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1987)
5-31-5: GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW LICENSE:
The Village Board may refuse to approve an application for a license hereunder
or the Clerk may refuse to renew a license issued hereunder, or such license,
in addition to the penalties herein provided, may be revoked for any one or any
combination of the following causes:
   (A)   Conviction of the applicant or license holder of a felony.
   (B)   The obtaining of or an attempt to obtain a license by fraudulent
misrepresentation.
   (C)   Conviction of fraud or dishonesty in any transaction relating to such
business.
   (D)   Failure to keep authentic records of business transactions as herein
required.
   (E)   Failure to maintain a shop in connection with applicant's principal
place of business in the Village, tooled and equipped to satisfactorily service
or repair, in accordance with the standards set by the License Committee, any
makes and types of cars sold by the licensee; provided, however, that in lieu
of such facilities, such dealer may have a written contract with a motor
vehicle repair establishment to carry out any warranties made.
   (F)   Inadequate parking space for sales, repair, employee and customer
cars. Applicant and/or licensee shall at all times provide on-premises parking
for all employee vehicles and one car customer parking for every three (3) cars
being offered for sale. At no time may the applicant/licensee park vehicles
offered for sale or to be offered for sale upon parkways and/or streets of the
Village.
   (G)   The business may or does create a nuisance as defined by the
ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1987)
5-31-6: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a license required by this Chapter shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (1959)
5-31-7: LICENSE; EXPIRATION; ASSIGNMENT:
All licenses granted hereunder shall expire on April 30 next after the granting
thereof, and no license issued hereunder shall be transferred or assigned by
the licensee; provided, however, that should the business licensed hereunder
descend by the laws of intestacy, or by devise or bequest come into the
ownership of any other person, then the license shall automatically be
transferred to the person who so acquired said business. (Ord., 6-15-1950)
5-31-8: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   A separate license shall be required for each location, place or
premises where such business or occupation is proposed to be carried on, and no
license shall be issued to any person, unless the business so licensed shall be
operated by and for the benefit of the person applying for such license. It
shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder to engage in such business unless
such licensee is the owner thereof, or unless the business is conducted for the
benefit of such licensee.
   (B)   Each licensee shall keep a record of all motor vehicles offered for
sale, exchange or disposal to the public, which record shall show the make of
said motor vehicles, the year of its manufacture, its serial number and engine
number, which record shall be available for inspection at any time by any
officer of the Village.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each licensee to immediately report to the
Chief of Police the presence in the licensed premises of any motor vehicle on
which the serial or engine number has been defaced or altered.
   (D)   Each licensee shall comply with all ordinances of the Village
applicable to any business conducted on the licensed premises necessarily
incident to the business licensed under this Chapter. (Ord. 1965-29, 10-21-
1965)
5-31-9: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
(Rep. by Ord. 1997-09, 9-4-1997)
5-31-10: NO TRANSACTION WITH MINORS:
No licensee, as aforesaid, shall purchase, or receive through trade or barter,
any used or secondhand motor vehicle or any used or secondhand part of any
motor vehicle from any minor without the written consent of the minor's parents
or guardian. (Ord., 6-15-1950)
5-31-11: RECEIVING STOLEN VEHICLES; PENALTY:
Any person, licensed hereunder who buys or receives any used or secondhand
motor vehicle or any used or secondhand part of any motor vehicle, knowing the
same to have been stolen, with the intent by such receiving or buying to
defraud the owner, or conceals any such motor vehicle or any part of the motor
vehicle, knowing the same to have been stolen, shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense. (Ord., 6-15-1950)
5-31-12: SALE BY AUCTION; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No licensee hereunder shall offer for sale or sell by way of public venue,
auction or outcry within the Village any used or secondhand motor vehicles or
any used or secondhand parts of motor vehicles without first having obtained a
permit and executed a bond to the Village, as herein provided. (Ord., 6-15-
1950)
5-31-13: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO SELL BY AUCTION:
Application for a permit to so sell by auction or outcry shall be made to the
Clerk and shall be verified, stating the name of the applicant, his address,
the location of the place or premises where such auction is to be held, the
date when such auction is to begin and the length of time for which the permit
is desired. The application shall also state the name of the owner or owners of
the motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts which are to be so offered for sale
or sold by auction. (Ord., 6-15-1950)
5-31-14: INVENTORY:
The applicant for a permit to offer for sale or sell by auction hereunder shall
file with his application a full and complete inventory of the motor vehicles
or motor vehicle parts which are to be offered for sale or sold, and three (3)
copies of such inventory shall also be filed with the Clerk. The motor vehicles
or motor vehicle parts enumerated in said inventory shall be numbered, and
tags, corresponding to the numbers so shown on the inventory shall be placed on
each motor vehicle or motor vehicle part when offered for sale. No additional
motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts than so inventoried shall be offered for
sale or auctioned at any auction held under a permit granted upon such
application. (Ord., 6-15-1950)
5-31-15: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The application for a permit and the inventory required by this Chapter to be
filed, shall be filed with the Clerk at least thirty (30) days prior to the
granting of such permit. The application and inventory, when filed, shall be
referred to the Village Board, and, if it shall appear that the applicant has
complied with all the laws relating thereto, the Village Board shall order the
President to issue a permit to said applicant authorizing him to conduct such
sale by auction in or at the place or premises designated in the permit and for
the period therein stated. Such sale shall be conducted by an auctioneer
licensed to do business in the Village. (Ord., 6-15-1950)
5-31-16: BOND:
The applicant for a permit to offer for sale or sell by auction hereunder shall
submit with his application a bond in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
with sureties to be approved by the Village Board, conditioned upon the
faithful observance of all provisions of this Code relating to auctions and
auctioneers. (Ord., 6-15-1950)
CHAPTER 32
HAWKERS, PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
5-32-1: Definitions
5-32-2: License Required
5-32-3: Application For License
5-32-4: Transferability
5-32-5: Possession Of License Required; Personal Badges To Be Worn
5-32-6: Making Loud Noise Prohibited
5-32-7: License Period
5-32-8: Existing Licenses
5-32-9: Hours
5-32-10: Occupant's Consent; No Solicitors
5-32-11: Violations And Fines
5-32-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
HAWKER AND PEDDLER: Shall include all persons and entities, both as principal
and agent, who go about the village from place to place, carrying goods, wares
and merchandise with them for the purpose of vending, selling, disposing of or
delivering the same to any person or entity, or obtaining orders from samples,
catalogs, lists, etc.
SOLICITOR: Shall include any individual engaged or employed specifically for
the purpose of soliciting or importuning or entreating for the purchase of
goods, wares, merchandise or services of any kind, character or description, or
for the purpose of canvassing for such orders or services shall be deemed a
solicitor.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Shall include all persons or entities, both as principal
and agent, who engage in, do or transact any temporary and transient business
in this village, either in one location, or by moving from place to place in
the village selling goods, wares and merchandise.
Provided, however, that nothing in this section contained shall be held to
include any sale conducted pursuant to statute or by order of any court, or to
any person conducting a bona fide auction sale who is, at the time of
conducting such sale, duly licensed as an auctioneer. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   Unless otherwise required or permitted by law, it shall be unlawful
for any transient merchant, hawker or peddler to vend, sell or dispose of, or
to offer to vend, sell or dispose of any goods, wares, merchandise, bakery
products, produce or vegetables, or to peddle and distribute circulars, cards,
bills, and other advertising matter about the streets, avenues, alleys or at
any place whatsoever within the village without first having obtained a license
from the office of the village clerk for that purpose and having paid the
license fee therefor as provided for hereinafter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any private
residence, apartment or premises of any kind in the village for the purpose of
soliciting from the occupants thereof, or to canvass for orders for goods,
wares, merchandise or services of any character or description, or services to
any such occupants, to induce or invite such orders without having first
applied for and received from the office of the village clerk a solicitor's
license and having paid the license fee therefor as provided for hereinafter.
(Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person who desires a license as required by this chapter shall make
application therefor in writing to the office of the village clerk, setting
forth in the application form provided by the office of the village clerk the
following information:
   (A)   Name And Address: The name and present address of the applicant and if
applicable, the name and address of the entity by whom the applicant is
employed and which the applicant represents, and if the address of the
applicant, firm or corporation has changed within the five (5) years just
previous to application, all such addresses of the applicant and entity for the
past five (5) year period;
   (B)   Employment: The nature and length of the employment of the applicant
with the entity being represented by the applicant;
   (C)   Type Of Business: Whether the applicant desires to be licensed as a
solicitor, peddler, hawker, or transient merchant, and the nature or character
of the goods, wares, merchandise or services to be offered or promoted by the
applicant. If applicant desires a license as a peddler, hawker, or transient
merchant, the applicant shall also state whether the applicant will deal or
conduct business from a vehicle, wagon, pushcart or handcart or from a basket
or other receptacle carried by the applicant or an assistant who shall not
otherwise engage in said business;
   (D)   Convictions: Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a
felony or gross misdemeanor as set forth in the application form;
   (E)   Good Moral Character: Such other credentials and other evidence of a
good moral character and identity of the applicant as may be reasonably
required by the director of police services or his designee.
   (F)   Identification And Fingerprinting: Upon payment of the current
application fee and fingerprint fees, applicants for a license shall personally
report to the police department of the village before the issuance of such
license for the purpose of identification and to be fingerprinted for purposes
of conducting a criminal background check on the applicant.
If the director of police services or his designee determines after reasonable
investigation that the applicant is of good moral character and proposes to
engage in a lawful and legitimate commercial or professional enterprise, the
director of police services shall then recommend to the office of the village
clerk that such license be issued and the office of the village clerk shall
issue a license upon verification that the applicant has paid all required
fees. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-4: TRANSFERABILITY:
Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not authorize any
person except the person named in the license to engage in business thereunder,
and such license shall not be transferable or assignable. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-
2015)
5-32-5: POSSESSION OF LICENSE REQUIRED; PERSONAL BADGES TO BE WORN:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person licensed under this chapter while
engaged in such business to possess on his person the license received by him
from the office of the village clerk and shall produce the license at the
request of any police officer or code enforcement officer of the village, or
any person with whom the licensed person is transacting or attempting to
transact business. Failure to produce the license upon request shall result in
the immediate revocation of the license and the applicant shall cease and
desist from all further licensed activities.
   (B)   Each solicitor shall be issued a badge to be worn on the person in
plain sight of any person at all times while engaging in the solicitation
activities. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-6: MAKING LOUD NOISE PROHIBITED:
No person licensed under this chapter shall call attention to his business or
to the goods, wares, merchandise or services which he is selling or offering
for sale by crying them out, by blowing a horn, by ringing a bell or by any
other loud or unusual noise. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-7: LICENSE PERIOD:
Licenses for peddlers and hawkers shall expire on the April 30 after they are
issued. Licenses for transient merchants may be issued for any period not
exceeding one hundred twenty (120) days. Licenses of solicitors shall be issued
for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days. Any licensee may apply to renew
the applicable license so long as the applicant meets current requirements for
licensing and has not had a previous license revoked under village ordinance.
(Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-8: EXISTING LICENSES:
Any license or licenses which have been heretofore issued under any prior
ordinance shall remain valid until the expiration of the period for which they
were issued. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-9: HOURS:
All persons licensed under this chapter shall conduct their business only
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
daily. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-10: OCCUPANT'S CONSENT; NO SOLICITORS:
It shall be unlawful to enter any premises or to remain therein for the purpose
of solicitation without the express or implied consent of the occupant of the
premises. Solicitors shall depart immediately and peacefully from any premises
displaying a "No Solicitors" or similar sign near the main entrance. Solicitors
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the occupant. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
5-32-11: VIOLATIONS AND FINES:
Any person violating any section of this chapter shall be fined up to seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each occurrence, each day on which a
violation occurs constituting a separate offense. Any license issued hereunder
shall be revoked by the village president if the holder of the license is
convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made
a false material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes
disqualified for the issuance of a license under the terms of this chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
village president to the holder of the license in person or by certified United
States mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the
application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the license shall
become null and void. (Ord. 2015-14, 10-1-2015)
CHAPTER 33
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY
SECTION:
5-33-1: Definition
5-33-2: License Required
5-33-3: Application
5-33-4: License Fee; Term
5-33-5: Lighting; Maintenance
5-33-6: Penalty
5-33-1: DEFINITION:
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: Any real property designed and used for the
purpose of renting or leasing individual storage space to tenants who are to
have access to such for the purpose of storing and removing personal property.
5-33-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to operate or maintain a self-service storage facility within
the Village without having received a license so to do.
5-33-3: APPLICATION:
Application for licenses under this Chapter shall be made to the Village Clerk
who shall process and investigate same, as provided for in this Code.
5-33-4: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
A self-service storage facility license shall be issued for a period of one (1)
year commencing on May 1st of each year and expiring on April 30th of the
succeeding year. The fee for the license shall be $1.25 for each 100 square
feet of rentable space in the facility. (Ord. 2025-15, 4-7-2025)
5-33-5: LIGHTING; MAINTENANCE:
The facility shall be adequately lighted so as to provide safety and clear view
between sunset and sunrise each day and shall be kept free of rubbish and
debris at all times.
5-33-6: PENALTY:
Violations of this Chapter shall be subject to the general penalty provided for
in this Code. (Ord. 1986-5, 4-24-86)
CHAPTER 34
AUTOMATIC AND MANUAL BURGLAR AND HOLDUP ALARMS
SECTION:
5-34-1: Definitions
5-34-2: Permit Required
5-34-3: Application for Permit; Fee
5-34-4: Compliance With Standards and Codes
5-34-5: Restricted Numbers
5-34-6: Contents of Recorded Messages
5-34-7: Monitoring Systems
5-34-8: Subscription Charges
5-34-9: False Alarms
5-34-10: Charges
5-34-11: Right of Inspection
5-34-12: Revocation of Permit
5-34-13: Liability of Village Limited
5-34-14: Severability
5-34-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALARM EQUIPMENT SUPPLIERS: Any person, firm or corporation that sells, leases
or installs automatic protection devices which transmit alarms upon receipt of
a stimulus from a detection apparatus or a manually operated system.
AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICE: An electrically operated instrument which
automatically sends voice, visual electronic or audible signal over a telephone
line, cable television line, radio or other means to an operator or monitor
station at the receiving terminal.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation or maintenance, the negligence of the user,
owner or lessee of an alarm system or of his employees or agents.
5-34-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person shall install or operate any automatic protection device
which automatically transmits a signal, message or warning to the Village
Police Department telephone line or other alarm terminal located in the Police
Department, without first obtaining a permit as required by this Chapter.
   (B)   When the automatic protection device is to be installed and maintained
by an alarm equipment supplier on a subscription basis, the permit shall be
only issued to the firm installing and maintaining the automatic protection
device.
   (C)   When the automatic protection device is installed and maintained on a
nonsubscription basis, the permit shall be issued only to the occupant of the
residence or other structure where the device is installed.
   (D)   A permit is not required for automatic protection devices that are
connected to an answering terminal other than the Police Department. The
charges prescribed in Section
5-34-10 shall be levied against the firm or person operating the terminal for
each accidentally set off or false alarm in excess of one in any three (3)
month period and reported to the Police Department.
5-34-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Application for permit to install, maintain and operate an automatic protection
device shall be filed with the Village Clerk, on forms supplied by the Village,
with an application fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). No permit shall be
issued to any applicant that refuses or fails to provide all information
requested on the application form.
5-34-4: COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS AND CODES:
All automatic protection devices shall comply with the standards of the
Underwriters' Laboratory or Factory Manual and will be installed in compliance
with the Electrical Code of the Village.
5-34-5: RESTRICTED NUMBERS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install, maintain or
operate an automatic protection device, subject to this Chapter, which
automatically transmits a signal, message or warning to any telephone number
other than as designated by the Village Clerk.
5-34-6: CONTENTS OF RECORDED MESSAGE:
The content of the recorded message to be transmitted by an automatic
protection device must be intelligible and in a format approved by the Village
Clerk as appropriate for the nature of the alarm. The length of time for
transmitting the recorded message must not exceed fifteen (15) seconds per
message with a maximum of two (2) transmissions per incident.
5-34-7: MONITORING SYSTEMS:
The Village shall maintain a monitoring system to receive visual and audible
signals over a line or lines or other types of receivers. This system shall be
available to any subscriber that meets the requirements for a permit for
connection.
5-34-8: SUBSCRIPTION CHARGES:
The subscribers shall pay the alarm equipment supplier for all equipment at
their location, connection fees to the monitoring system and maintenance
charges necessitated by the installation, operation and maintenance of the
automatic protection device and monitoring system. The company supplying and
maintaining the monitoring system shall have the right to charge subscribers or
other alarm equipment suppliers a reasonable fee for connection to and
maintenance of such monitoring system.
5-34-9: FALSE ALARMS:
Each permittee shall be responsible for any accidentally set off or false
alarms transmitted by the device which they operate or maintain. The Village
Clerk or his designee shall maintain a record of all such alarms so
transmitted.
5-34-10: CHARGES:
The Village Clerk shall charge a permittee a fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each accidentally set off or false alarm in excess of one in any
three (3) month period transmitted by any automatic protection device. Such
charge shall be remitted to the Village by the permittee upon receipt of a
statement therefor. No charge shall be imposed for accidentally set off or
false alarms for thirty (30) days from the date of the installation and
activation of the system.
5-34-11: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
The Village Clerk or designee shall have the right to inspect any automatic
protection device on the premises where it is intended to be used, both prior
to and subsequent to the issuance of a permit, to determine whether a permit
should be granted and whether it is being used in conformity with the terms of
the permit and the provisions of this Chapter.
5-34-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The Village Clerk may revoke or suspend any permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter after giving written notice to the permittee when:
   (A)   It has been determined that an automatic protection device has been
installed, maintained or operated in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter.
   (B)   For failure to pay any fee or other charges authorized to be levied or
imposed by this Chapter.
   (C)   More than four (4) accidentally set off or false alarms are received
by the monitoring station in any one calendar year from a building or other
location where an automatic protection device is installed.
5-34-13: LIABILITY OF VILLAGE LIMITED:
The Village shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that alarm signals
and prerecorded alarm messages received by the Village are given appropriate
attention and are acted upon with dispatch. Nevertheless, the Village shall not
be liable for any defects in operation of automatic protection devices and for
any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an alarm from
such a source, nor failure or neglect of any person in connection with the
installation and operation of equipment, the transmission of alarm signals and
prerecorded alarm messages or the relaying of such signals or messages. In the
event that the Village finds it necessary to disconnect a defective automatic
protection device or signaling device, the Village shall incur no liability by
such action.
5-34-14: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter be
declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder of this
Chapter shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect
and the same shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 1991-02, 6-6-91)
CHAPTER 35
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
5-35-1: Model Telecommunications Ordinance Adopted
5-35-1: MODEL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
   (A)   The requirements, regulations, standards, conditions, terms and
definitions relating to telecommunications, its service and providers, as
affecting the Village, as contained in the Model Telecommunications Ordinance,
drafted and prepared by the Joint Council of Government Committee of the West
Central Municipal Conference, dated January 1996, and revised to June 1996, a
copy of which is attached to Ordinance 1997-13 as Exhibit "A", and on file in
the City Clerk's office, is hereby adopted as the Telecommunications Ordinance
of the Village, by reference thereto. The regulations, provisions, conditions,
terms and definitions thereof and therein contained are made a part of this
Code as though fully set forth and written herein.
   (B)   At least three (3) copies of said Model Ordinance have been on file in
the office the Village Clerk, for use and examination by the public, for in
excess of thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this Chapter.
   (C)   It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with the requirements of
this Chapter.
   (D)   The following articles, sections or words are inserted, revised,
deleted or not adopted:
      1.   In section 1.2 of article 1: Definitions, the word "Village" shall
mean the Village of River Grove.
      2.   Sections 1.8, 2.2, 6.2 and 6.6 are not adopted.
      3.   In sections 6.3, 6.4 and 6.7, delete the word "franchise".
      4.   In section 6.8, delete the words "Article 5 of this Title" and
insert the words "the Franchise Agreement". (Ord. 1997-13, 11-6-1997)
CHAPTER 36
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
5-36-1: Definitions
5-36-2: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
5-36-3: Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
5-36-4: Collection, Enforcement, And Administration
5-36-5: Compliance With Other Laws
5-36-6: Existing Franchises And Licenses
5-36-7: Penalties
5-36-8: Enforcement
5-36-9: Severability
5-36-10: Conflict
5-36-11: Waiver And Fee Implementation
5-36-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the Village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the Village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the Village, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the Village. However, "gross charges" shall not include:
   (A)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
under: 1) the fee imposed by this Section; 2) additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act; 3)
amounts collected under section 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code; 4) the
tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act; 5) 911 surcharges; or 6)
the tax imposed by section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
   (B)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
Village;
   (C)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time- sharing agreement;
   (D)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   (E)   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the Village;
   (F)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
   (G)   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable Federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   (H)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunications
devices; or
   (I)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the Village.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any Municipal street, alley, water or public right of way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements
wherein the Village has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit
the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
"Public right of way" shall not include any real or personal Village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include Village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right of way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the State of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business,
or any agent or other representative operating within this State under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in this State.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to- ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include wireless telecommunications
as hereinafter defined. "Telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the Village
through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: (A)Any telecommunications retailer; and
(B)Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs, owns,
operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Means and includes every
person engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail
as defined in this Section. The Village may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this State, who, to the satisfaction
of the Village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the Village.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(C) of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Public Law No. 104-104), 42 USC section 332(c)
(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services. (Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
   (A)   Every "telecommunications provider" as defined by this Chapter shall
register with the Village within thirty (30) days after the effective date of
this Chapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on
a form to be provided by the Village, provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to subsection
5-36-4(C) of this Chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this Section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the Village
pursuant to subsection (A) of this Section has an affirmative duty to submit an
amended registration form or current return as required by subsection
5-36-4(C) of this Chapter, as the case may be, to the Village within thirty
(30) days from the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information
provided by the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most
recent return on file with the Village. (Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-3: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE:
   (A)   A Village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of one percent (1%)
of all gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service
addresses within the Village for telecommunications originating or received in
the Village. (Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997; amd. Ord. 1997-16, 11-20-1997)
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this Chapter, the Village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights of way within the Village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this Chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The Village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this Section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in Section
5-36-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-4: COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the Village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Comptroller, the
infrastructure maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications
retailer to the Village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to
the month in which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that
the telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed two percent
(2%) of the Village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse
itself for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the Municipal infrastructure fee to the Village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village Comptroller,
which shall contain such information as the Village Comptroller may reasonably
require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this Chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village. The charge imposed under subsection
(A) of this Section by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this Chapter
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this Chapter, whether as
a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this Chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the Village Comptroller may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three (3) years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless: 1) the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the Village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations; and 2) the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this Chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      1.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      2.   "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      3.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in section 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      4.   "Gross revenue" for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in section 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act.
   (G)   The Village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this Chapter
to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to
the Village for the Village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of
the amount of the Village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the Village by
the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the Village plus five percent
(5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any
costs incurred by the Village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to
exceed five percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in
an audit. Said sum shall be paid to the Village within twenty one (21) days
after the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   (H)   The Village Comptroller or her designee, may promulgate such further
or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
Chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to time
and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant
to Section
5-36-2 of this Chapter of such regulations. (Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes; and
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or
repair of the public rights of way, including standards relating to
freestanding towers and other structures upon the public rights of way, as
provided; and
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this Code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over, or within the right of way. (Ord.
1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-6: EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the Village entered into before the effective date of this
Chapter regarding the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived. (Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-7: PENALTIES:
Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this Code. (Ord.
1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this Chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997)
5-36-10: CONFLICT:
This Chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto
which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 1997-14,
11-6-1997)
5-36-11: WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION:
   (A)   The Village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the Village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing Village franchise,
license, or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the
time the Village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.
This waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure
maintenance fee provided for in this Chapter is subject to being lawfully
imposed on the telecommunications retailer and collected by the
telecommunications retailer from the customer.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail/
return receipt requested, to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
Village has a franchise.
   (C)   The Village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
Chapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than ninety (90) days after the Village provides written notice by
certified mail to each telecommunications retailer with whom the Village has an
existing franchise, license, or similar agreement that the Village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license, or similar agreement
during such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected
by the retailer and remitted to the Village. The infrastructure maintenance fee
shall apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as
established in the preceding sentence. (Ord. 1997-14, 11-6-1997)
CHAPTER 37
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5-37-1: Definitions
5-37-2: License And Permit Required
5-37-3: Application For Massage Establishment License
5-37-4: Application For A Massage Therapist Permit
5-37-5: Limitation And Restriction On Issuance And Renewal Of License Or Permit
5-37-6: Review By The Village President Or Denial Of An Application
5-37-7: Revocation Or Suspension Of Massage Establishment License
5-37-8: Revocation Or Suspension Of Certified Massage Therapist Permit
5-37-9: Facility Requirements
5-37-10: Operating Requirements
5-37-11: Manager On Premises
5-37-12: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
5-37-13: Hours Of Operation
5-37-14: Employment Of Massage Therapist
5-37-15: Display Of License
5-37-16: Identification Card Required
5-37-17: Inspection Of Massage Establishments
5-37-18: Name And Place Of Business
5-37-19: Transfer; Changes In Ownership Or Management
5-37-20: Exemptions
5-37-21: License Fee And Period Of License
5-37-22: Unlawful Acts
5-37-23: Public Nuisance
5-37-24: Violation And Penalty
5-37-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
CERTIFIED MASSAGE THERAPIST: An individual who either has:
   (A)   Completed a minimum of five hundred (500) hours or more of courses of
in-classroom study and one hundred (100) hours or more of clinical experience
(which courses and clinical experience in order to qualify for credit hours for
the issuance of a diploma must have been completed under the physical
supervision of qualified faculty and shall include courses in anatomy,
physiology, kinesiology, ethics, pathology and contraindications), and has
received a diploma in the field of massage therapy from an educational
institution offering degrees or certification in massage therapy and such
educational institution shall be approved or accredited by the Commission on
Massage Training/Approval and Accreditation (COMTAA) or by a board of education
of any state in the United States. Notwithstanding the foregoing to the
contrary, correspondence courses and/or a diploma from schools which provided
credit for correspondence courses shall not qualify; or
   (B)   Passed the National Certification Examination for Therapeutic Massage
and Bodywork (NCETMB), administered by the National Certification Program for
Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCCA); and is an active member of a
nationally recognized massage therapy association, as a certified,
professional, or equivalent level, which professional association includes as a
requirement for membership the passing of an NCETMB competency test
administered by NCCA as hereinabove set forth, continuing education and a code
of ethics.
LICENSE: A massage establishment licensed as provided in this Chapter.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external soft
parts of the body with the hands or with aid of any mechanical electrical
apparatus or appliances or by the application of air, liquid, or vapor baths of
any kind with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments,
antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments, or other similar
preparations used in this practice.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of "massage" as defined in the massage
definition above, and which has a fixed place of business where any person
engages in, or carries on, or permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the
activities or practices of "massage" as defined in this Section.
OUTCALL MASSAGE: Any business, the function of which is to engage in or carry
on massage at a location other than a licensed massage establishment.
PATRON: An individual who receives a massage under such circumstances that it
is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or give any other
consideration therefor.
PERMIT: A certified massage therapist's permit as provided in this Chapter. A
photo identification permit card shall serve as the certified massage
therapist's permit as provided in this Chapter.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association, joint stock company,
corporation or combination of individuals of any form, kind or character
whatsoever.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: Genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of any
person, and the vulva and breasts of a female. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-2: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Massage Establishment License Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in, conduct, carry on, or permit to be engaged in, conducted,
or carried on, in or upon any premises in the Village, the business of
operating a massage establishment without having first obtained a valid and
current license therefor issued by the Village pursuant to the terms of this
Chapter. A separate license shall be required for each massage establishment
location regardless of whether such multiple establishments are operated by the
same person.
   (B)   Massage Therapist's Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any
individual to practice "massage" as herein defined for any consideration
whatsoever as a massage therapist, whether as an employee of a massage
establishment or otherwise, without having first obtained a valid and current
permit therefor issued by the Village pursuant to the terms of this Chapter.
Massage therapist permits shall be issued only to natural persons who qualify
as a certified massage therapist and shall not be issued to any corporation
partnership or other legal entity. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-3: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   (A)   An application for a massage establishment license as required in
Section
5-37-2 of this Chapter shall be filed with the Village Clerk. The application
shall be made in writing upon a form provided by the Village Clerk and shall be
completed in full and signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly
authorized agent thereof, if not an individual, verified by oath or affidavit,
that all of the information in the application is complete, true and correct
and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation, or otherwise.
      2.   The name under which the business is to be conducted.
      3.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license as well as all telephone numbers
where the business is to be operated.
         (a) If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided. The
term of such lease must not end until after the expiration date of the license
for which application is being made.
         (b) The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises, and, if said
premises is held in trust, the names and addresses of all the owners of the
beneficial interest of a trust.
         (c) Whether any other activities or business will be conducted at the
same location and the physical facilities to be used.
      4.   In the case of an individual, the full name, home address with zip
code, social security number, date of birth, sex and a physical description of
the applicant including height, weight, color of hair and eyes.
      5.   In the case of a partnership, the full names, home addresses with
zip codes, social security numbers, dates of birth, sex and physical
descriptions including height, weight, color of hair and eyes of all partners
(whether general or limited) and any other persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof. The date of formation of the partnership, if a partnership,
the date of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date of becoming
qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation Act, 805 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1.01 et seq., to transact business in Illinois if a foreign
corporation.
      6.   In the case of a corporation, the object for which organized, the
names, residence addresses with zip codes, dates of birth, social security
numbers, sex and physical descriptions including height, weight, color of hair
and eyes of all officers, directors, and all persons owning directly or
beneficially any of the stock of such corporation and the persons acting as
managers or assistant managers or other persons principally in charge of the
operation of the business.
      7.   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all
certified massage therapists and employees employed by the business and the
names and residence addresses of all managers, assistant managers or other
persons principally in charge of the operation of the business.
      8.   The business, occupation, employment of applicant, if an individual,
for three (3) years preceding the date of application.
      9.   Whether applicant ever made an application for a license under this
Chapter, or a massage business license or similar license to a state or county,
city, village or other unit of local government, and if so, where and when, and
if such application was granted or denied, and if such application was denied,
the reasons for the denial.
      10.   Whether a license was ever issued to the applicant under this
Chapter or a massage business license or similar license ever issued by any
state or county, city or village or other unit of local government, and if so,
where and when, and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked and the
reasons for the suspension or revocation.
      11.   Whether the applicant has ever pleaded guilty or been found guilty
of a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter or any ordinance of any
other Illinois municipality or unit of government which regulates massage
establishments or the providing of massages, or any Illinois statute regulating
massage establishments.
      12.   A complete statement of all instances in which the applicant has
pleaded guilty or has been found guilty under the laws of any state or under
the laws of the United States as provided in this Section. If the applicant is
a corporation, the statement shall include all of the applicant's officers,
directors and managing agents, and any stockholders. If the applicant is a
partnership, such statement shall include all general partners and any limited
partner. Such listing shall include the following:
         (a) Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other sex
offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.
         (b) Any felony based upon conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity.
         (c) Any felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, but which felony involved the
use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs or controlled substances, or
violence against another person, including rape or other sexual misconduct.
         (d) Any misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation, based upon
conduct or involvement in such related business activity or similar business
activity.
   (B)   Except in the case of an application for a renewal of a license and
fingerprints are on file for all persons who are required to provide a complete
set of fingerprints, the applicant shall submit a complete set of fingerprints
with the application, if the applicant is a corporation, fingerprints must be
submitted for each officer, director, stockholder and managing agent of the
corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, fingerprints must be submitted
for each general and limited partner. If the applicant is a limited liability
company, fingerprints must be submitted for each general and limited partner
and managing partner. The owners, partners and principal managers of any other
legal entity entitled to do business in the State shall also be fingerprinted.
The Village may, in its sole discretion, either require the applicant to have
his fingerprints taken and submitted for processing by the State of Illinois
Department of Law Enforcement State Police and direct that the results be sent
directly to the Village, care of the Chief of Police or the Village may require
that all such fingerprinting shall be done by the Village Police Department. If
the Village does the fingerprinting then the fingerprints shall be submitted to
the appropriate State and/or Federal agencies for processing as available. The
cost of fingerprinting shall be paid by the applicant in advance and in
addition to any application or license fee.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the Village,
its agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into
the truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications
of the applicant for a license.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit a copy of identification which shall
include, but shall not be limited to, a driver's license, if any, and a social
security card and two (2) copies of a current portrait photograph of the
applicant at least two inches by two inches (2" x 2"). The portrait shall
include the head and shoulder area with the face forward pose. A new and
current portrait shall be required with each renewal application. If the
applicant is a corporation the identification and the portrait must be
submitted for each officer, director, stockholder and managing agent of the
corporation. The Village, in its sole discretion, may require that any portrait
photograph required by these provisions be taken by the Village Police
Department. If the applicant is a partnership, the identification and portrait
must be submitted for each partner whether general or limited.
   (E)   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation, and
identification of the applicant as the Village Clerk and/or the Chief of Police
shall deem necessary to determine the identity of the applicant or to process
the application. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-4: APPLICATION FOR A MASSAGE THERAPIST PERMIT:
   (A)   An application for a massage therapist permit shall be filed with the
Village Clerk. The application shall be made upon a form provided by the
Village Clerk and shall be completed in full and signed by the applicant,
verified by oath or affidavit that all of the information in the application is
complete, true and correct, and shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   The business address and telephone numbers where the applicant will
be providing massages.
      2.   The full name and all other names, nicknames and aliases by which
the applicant has been known, home address with zip code including the two (2)
previous addresses immediately prior to the present address of the applicant,
social security number, driver's license number, if any, date of birth, sex and
a physical description of the applicant, including height, weight, color of
hair and eyes.
      3.   The business, occupation, employment of applicant for three (3)
years preceding the date of application.
      4.   Whether applicant ever made an application for a massage therapist
permit under this Chapter, or a massage therapist's or similar license to a
state or county, city or village or other unit of local government, and if so,
where and when and if such application was granted or denied, and if such
application was denied, the reasons for the denial.
      5.   Whether a massage therapist permit was ever issued to the applicant
under this Chapter or a massage therapist's or similar license was ever issued
by any state or county, city, village or other unit of local government, and if
so, where and when, and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked and
the reasons for the suspension or revocation.
      6.   Whether the applicant has ever pleaded guilty or been found guilty
of a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter or any ordinance of any
other Illinois municipality which regulates massage establishments or the
giving of massages, or any Illinois statute regulating massage therapists.
      7.   A complete statement of all instances in which the applicant has
pleaded guilty or has been found guilty under the laws of any state or under
the laws of the United States as provided in this Chapter. Such listing shall
include the following:
         (a) Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other sex
offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.
         (b) Any felony based upon conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity.
         (c) Any felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, but which felony involved the
use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs or controlled substances, or
violence against another person, including rape or other sexual misconduct.
         (d) Any misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation based upon
conduct or involvement in such related business activity or similar business
activity.
   (B)   Except in the case of an application for a renewal license and a
complete set of the applicant's fingerprints is on file, the applicant shall
submit a complete set of fingerprints with the application for a massage
therapist permit. The applicant shall also submit a copy of identification
which shall include, but shall not be limited to, a driver's license, if any, a
social security card, two (2) copies of a current portrait photograph of the
applicant at least two inches by two inches (2" x 2"). The portrait shall
include the head and shoulder area with a face forward pose. A new and current
portrait shall be required with each renewal application. The Village, in its
sole discretion, may require that any portrait photograph required by these
provisions be taken by the Village Police Department. The Village may, in its
sole discretion, either require the applicant to have his fingerprints taken
and submitted for processing by the State of Illinois Department of Law
Enforcement State Police and direct that the results be sent directly to the
Village, care of the Chief of Police or the Village may require that all such
fingerprinting shall be done by the Village Police Department. If the Village
does the fingerprinting the fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate
State and/or Federal agencies for processing as available. The cost of
fingerprinting shall be paid by the applicant in addition to any other required
license or application fee.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the Village,
its agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into
the truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications
of the applicant for a license.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation, and
identification of the applicant as the Village Clerk and/or the Chief of Police
shall deem necessary to determine the identity of the applicant or to process
the application.
   (E)   The applicant shall submit evidence that the applicant has qualified
as a "certified massage therapist" as defined in this Chapter by causing
certified copies of the appropriate transcripts to be delivered directly from
the issuing organization to the Village:
      1.   That the applicant has graduated from a school approved by the
American Massage Therapy Association Commission on Accreditation and Training
and/or approved by the board of education of any state; or
      2.   That the applicant has passed the NCETMB administered by NCCA and
has achieved active membership status within the American Massage Therapy
Association or a professional organization with standards comparable to the
American Massage Therapy Association, with mandated continuing education
requirements and a written code of ethics. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-5: LIMITATION AND RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE OR
PERMIT:
Upon receipt of a properly completed application including payment in full of
all fees in connection therewith for a massage establishment license and/or a
massage therapist permit, the Village Clerk shall submit the completed
application to the Chief of Police for evaluation. Upon receiving the
application for a massage establishment license and/or massage therapist
permit, the Chief of Police shall conduct an investigation.
In the case of an application for a massage establishment license, the Chief of
Police shall cause and the applicant shall permit the premises to be licensed
to be inspected by or on behalf of the Fire Department, the Building and Zoning
Officer, the appropriate health inspector and any other applicable department
or inspector to assure that the proposed operation complies with all applicable
laws, including building, electrical, plumbing, health, housing, zoning, and
fire codes of the Village and any other regulations of the Village relating to
the public health, safety and welfare. The appropriate departments and/or
inspectors shall inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage
establishment, make an investigation of the application and make written
recommendations to the Police Chief concerning compliance with Village codes
and Federal or State laws. The Chief of Police shall promptly deliver to the
Village Clerk all of the written recommendations along with his written
recommendation with respect to whether the application for a license and/or a
permit should be approved, denied or held for further review.
Within forty five (45) days of the date that a fully completed application,
including payment of all fees therefor is filed, the Village shall issue a
license and/or a permit if he or she has received a recommendation of approval
from the Chief of Police and provided that all of the requirements of this
Chapter have been satisfied, or the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant in
writing that the application has been denied or is held for further review. The
period of such additional review shall not exceed an additional thirty (30)
days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the conclusion of such
additional review, and after receiving the above described written
recommendations from the Chief of Police, the Village Clerk shall advise the
applicant in writing whether the application is granted or denied consistent
with the recommendation of the Chief of Police. The license or permit shall be
denied if the applicant fails to comply with the requirements of this Chapter
or with the requirements of any other provision of this Code which is
applicable to the business and/or activities of the applicant.
   (A)   No massage establishment license or massage therapist permit shall be
issued to or renewed for:
      1.   An applicant who has pleaded guilty to or has been found guilty of
any one or more of the following offenses:
         (a) Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other sex
offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.
         (b) Any felony based upon conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, within the past ten (10) years.
         (c) Any felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, but which felony involved the
use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs or controlled substances, or
violence against another person, including rape or other sexual misconduct,
within the past five (5) years.
         (d) Any misdemeanor or licensing ordinance violation by any state or
other unit of local government based upon conduct or involvement in such
related business activity or similar business activity, within the past five
(5) years of the date of the application including, but not limited to, the
denial, suspension or revocation of such a similar license by any state or
other unit of local government within five (5) years of the date of the
application.
      2.   An applicant whose license or permit issued under this Chapter has
been revoked for cause or the applicant has pleaded guilty or has been found
guilty of any violation of any provision of this Chapter.
      3.   An applicant who at the time of application for renewal of any
license or permit issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license or
permit upon a first application.
      4.   An applicant under eighteen (18) years of age.
      5.   An applicant who has failed to submit a complete application and who
has failed to cure the defect(s) within ten (10) days after written notice of
any such failure to cure.
      6.   An applicant who has been convicted of any other criminal offense
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude within five (5) years of
the date of the application.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions in subsection (A) of this Section, no
massage establishment license shall be issued to or renewed for:
      1.   An applicant whose place of business is conducted by a manager
unless the manager possesses the same qualifications required of the licensee.
      2.   An applicant who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      3.   A partnership, if any general partners thereof, or any limited
partner owning any interest in such partnership has pleaded guilty to or has
been found guilty of any one or more of the offenses listed in this Chapter.
      4.   A corporation, if any officer or director, or any stockholders
owning any of the stock of such corporation has pleaded guilty to or has been
found guilty of any one or more of the offenses listed in this Chapter.
      5.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act, 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1.01 et seq., to transact
business in Illinois.
      6.   An applicant if the premises in which the massage establishment is
to be operated shall not be in compliance with all applicable codes and
ordinances of the Village, including, but not limited to, zoning, building, and
life safety codes.
   (C)   In addition to the provisions in subsection (A) of this Section, no
massage therapist permit shall be issued to or renewed for an applicant unless
such person has qualified as a "certified massage therapist" as defined in this
Chapter. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-6: REVIEW BY THE VILLAGE PRESIDENT OR DENIAL OF AN APPLICATION:
The denial by the Village Clerk to issue a license and/or a permit pursuant to
an application made therefor shall be subject to review by the Village
President or his designated hearing officer provided that a request for such
review is made in writing by the applicant to the Village President within ten
(10) days of the issuance of the written denial of the application. The Village
President shall conduct and/or cause to be conducted a hearing to review the
application submitted to the Village by the applicant, the report of the Chief
of Police and/or any other reports of inspections made and of any other
relevant facts and evidence determined. The applicant may present any relevant
evidence in support of his request that the denial of the application be
reviewed and reversed. The Village President shall determine whether the denial
of the application shall be affirmed or whether the denial shall be reversed
and the application approved. If the Village President reverses the decision
and approves the application, the license and/or the permit applied for shall
be issued. The decision of the Village President to affirm the denial of the
application shall be final and subject to judicial review only by a court of
competent jurisdiction to the extent otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 1998-11,
10-15-1998)
5-37-7: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   (A)   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be suspended for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days by the Village President upon written
notice to the license holder, which notice shall state a basis or charge. The
notice shall be served by mailing a copy thereof by regular U.S. mail,
addressed to the licensee at the address of the licensed premises and shall be
deemed served on the date of mailing (the "service date") and by delivering a
copy of the notice to the manager of the licensed premises or to any other
employee on the licensed premises. The license holder may request in writing a
hearing before the Village President, or the President's designated hearing
officer, within ten (10) days of the service date. If a written request for a
hearing is not made within ten (10) days of the service date, the Village
President may suspend any license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days
for any of the reasons hereinafter set forth in the provisions of this
subsection. Upon receiving a timely written request therefor, the Village
President shall conduct the hearing and may suspend a license for a period of
time not to exceed thirty (30) days if any of the provisions of this Chapter
are violated or any employee of the licensee, including a certified massage
therapist, is engaged in any conduct at licensee's place of business which
violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or any other ordinances of the
Village relating to the license, the licensed premises, or any State law, or
where any applicant has committed any fraud, misrepresentation or made a false
statement on an application for a license under this Chapter or in any case
where the licensee refuses to permit any duly authorized police officer or
inspector of the Village to inspect the premises or the operations therein, or
the failure or refusal of the licensee to pay any fine, penalty or charge owed
to the Village, or in the event that the licensee would not now qualify for the
issuance of a license or the renewal thereof. The licensee shall be deemed to
have actual or constructive knowledge of any violations hereinabove set forth
if they occur on the licensed premises by any person(s) acting as an employee,
agent or otherwise receiving compensation. Such license may also be suspended
by the Village President upon the recommendations of the Health Officer that
such business is being managed, conducted, or maintained without regard for the
public health or health of patrons or without due regard to proper sanitation
or hygiene. The licensee shall be permitted to present any relevant evidence
bearing on the alleged violations set forth in the notice.
The decision of the Village President shall be final and subject to judicial
review only by a court of competent jurisdiction to the extent otherwise
provided by law.
   (B)   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be revoked by the
Village President for any of the reasons set forth in subsection (A) of this
Section upon written notice to the license holder, which notice shall state a
basis or charge. The notice shall be served by mailing a copy thereof by
regular U.S. mail, addressed to the licensee at the address of the licensed
premises and shall be deemed served on the date of mailing (the "service date")
and by delivering a copy of the notice to the manager of the licensed premises
or to any other employee on the licensed premises. Within ten (10) days of the
service date, the licensee may request a hearing before the Village President.
If a written request for a hearing is not made within ten (10) days of the
service date, the Village President shall determine whether or not to revoke
any license as hereinafter provided. Upon receiving a timely request made
therefor, the Village President shall conduct a hearing. The licensee shall be
permitted to present any relevant evidence bearing on the alleged violations
set forth in the notice. After the hearing, the Village President shall render
a decision whether or not to revoke the license holder's license.
   (C)   The Village President may revoke a license for any of the reasons set
forth in subsection (A) of this Section and shall revoke a license if he
determines that any one or more of the following have occurred:
      1.   A licensee has violated or is not in compliance with the provisions
of this Chapter and the license has been suspended within the preceding twenty
four (24) months.
      2.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises.
      3.   A licensee knowingly conducted massage activities in the Village
during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
      4.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twenty four (24) month period,
a person or persons committed a violation of the provisions of this Chapter
which substantially occurred in or on a licensed premises, and the person or
persons were employees of the licensee at the time the violations were
continued.
      5.   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, bestiality, prostitution, or
flagellation to occur in or on the licensed premises.
      6.   There is no certified massage therapist employed by the licensee or
otherwise engaged or committed to provide massage services on the licensed
premises.
      7.   A licensee does not now qualify for the issuance of a license or the
renewal thereof.
   (D)   The decision of the Village President shall be final and subject to
judicial review only by a court of competent jurisdiction to the extent
otherwise provided by law.
   (E)   Any licensee whose license has been revoked is barred from applying
for a new license for a minimum period of one year from the date of revocation.
Any suspension or revocation of the license, if ordered, shall not preclude
prosecution and imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of
other applicable provisions of this Chapter or other ordinances of the Village.
(Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-8: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF CERTIFIED MASSAGE THERAPIST PERMIT:
   (A)   Any permit issued for a certified massage therapist may be suspended
for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days by the Village President upon
written notice to the permit holder, which notice shall state a basis or
charge. The notice shall be served by mailing a copy thereof by regular U.S.
mail addressed to the permit holder at the address of the licensed premises and
shall be deemed served on the date of mailing (the "service date") and by
delivering a copy of the notice to the manager of the licensed premises or to
any other employee on the licensed premises. The permit holder may request in
writing a hearing before the Village President or his designated hearing
officer within ten (10) days of the service date. If a written request for a
hearing is not made within ten (10) days of the service date, the Village
President may suspend any license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days
for any of the reasons hereinafter set forth in the provisions of this
subsection. Upon receiving a timely written request therefor, the Village
President shall conduct or cause to be conducted, the hearing in any case and
may suspend a permit for a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days if any
of the provisions of this Chapter are violated or when any certified massage
therapist is engaged in any conduct at a licensee's place of business which
violates any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any other ordinance of the
Village relating to the permit, or any State law, or where any applicant has
committed any fraud, misrepresentation or has made a false statement on an
application for a permit under this Chapter or the failure or refusal of the
permittee to pay any fine, penalty or charge owed to the Village or when such
permittee no longer qualifies as a certified massage therapist. The permittee
shall be permitted to present any relevant evidence bearing on the alleged
violations set forth in the notice.
The decision of the Village President shall be final and subject to judicial
review only by a court of competent jurisdiction to the extent otherwise
provided by law.
   (B)   Any permit issued for a certified massage therapist may be revoked by
the Village President for any of the reasons set forth in subsection (A) of
this Section upon written notice to the permit holder, which notice shall state
a basis or charge. The notice shall be served by mailing a copy by regular U.S.
mail addressed to the permittee at the address of the licensed premises and
shall be deemed served on the service date and by delivering a copy of the
notice to the manager of the licensed premises or to any other employee on the
licensed premises. Within ten (10) days of the service date, the permittee may
request a hearing before the Village President. If a written request for a
hearing is not made within ten (10) days of the service date, the Village
President shall determine whether or not to revoke any permit as hereinafter
provided. Upon receiving a timely request made therefore, the Village President
or his designated hearing officer shall conduct a hearing. The permittee shall
be permitted to present any relevant evidence bearing on the alleged violations
set forth in the notice. After the hearing, the Village President shall render
a decision whether or not to revoke the permit holder's permit.
   (C)   The Village President may revoke a permit for any of the reasons set
forth in subsection (A) of this Section and shall revoke a permit if he
determines that any one or more of the following have occurred:
      1.   A permittee has violated or is not in compliance with the provisions
of this Chapter and the permit has been suspended at any time within the
preceding twenty four (24) months.
      2.   A permittee knowingly conducted massage activities in the Village
during a period of time when the permittee's permit was not otherwise in effect
or valid.
      3.   A permittee has knowingly participated in any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation of the permittee or of
another individual, bestiality, prostitution, or flagellation to occur in or on
the licensed premises.
      4.   A permittee no longer qualifies as a certified massage therapist.
The decision of the Village President shall be final and subject to judicial
review only by a court of competent jurisdiction to the extent otherwise
provided by law.
   (D)   Any permittee whose permit has been revoked is barred from applying
for a new permit for a minimum period of one year from the date of revocation.
Any suspension or revocation of the permit, if ordered, shall not preclude
prosecution and imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of
other applicable provisions of this Chapter or other ordinances of the Village.
(Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-9: FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the Village reveals that the establishment complies with each of
the following minimum requirements:
   (A)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and showers
shall be made waterproof with approved waterproofed materials and shall be
installed in accordance with the Village building code. Plumbing fixtures shall
be installed in accordance with the Village plumbing code.
      1.   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have waterproof floors,
walls and ceilings approved by the Village.
      2.   Floors of wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to one
or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer. (Exception: dry heat
rooms with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor
drains.)
      3.   A source of hot water must be available within the immediate
vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to facilitate cleaning.
   (B)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   (C)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas.
   (D)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. At a
minimum, a single unisex water closet shall be provided in an establishment
when less than ten (10) (in the aggregate) employees and patrons of different
sexes are reasonably calculated to be on the premises at the same time. When
ten (10) or more (in the aggregate) employees and patrons of different sexes
are reasonably calculated to be on the premises at the same time the following
shall be applicable:
Separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each ten (10) or more employees or patrons
of that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be substituted for
water closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be
designated as to the sex accommodated therein.
   (E)   Adequate dressing or locker facilities shall be provided for the
patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and female patrons
are to be served simultaneously, segregated dressing, locker and massage room
facilities shall be provided.
   (F)   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running water
shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories or
washbasins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary
towels.
   (G)   All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the Village electrical code.
   (H)   Any cubicle, room, booth, or any area within a massage establishment
may not be fitted with a door capable of being locked. All doors or doorway
coverings shall have an unobstructed opening not less than six inches by six
inches (6" x 6") in size capable of clear two-way viewing into and out of all
cubicles, rooms, or booths. The opening shall be not less than four and one-
half feet (41/2') from the floor of the establishment. Toilets and cubicles
used solely for the application of liquid and vapor baths shall have no such
openings in the covering door or curtain, but shall be clearly marked as to
purposes on the exterior door or curtain of said cubicle, room or booth.
   (I)   The massage establishment premises shall be in compliance with all
applicable codes and ordinances of the Village, including, but not limited to,
zoning, building and life safety codes. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-10: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective patrons.
   (C)   All employees, including massage therapists, shall be clean and shall
be fully covered by wearing clean, nontransparent outer garments, completely
covering the sexual and genital areas.
   (D)   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   No massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of
this Chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed,
published or distributed any advertisement, picture, or statement which is
known or through the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false,
deceptive or misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize
any massage services.
   (F)   Eating in the massage work areas shall not be permitted. Animals
except seeing eye dogs shall not be permitted in the massage work areas.
   (G)   The sexual or genital areas of patrons shall be completely covered at
all times when in the presence of an employee of the massage establishment or
any massage therapist.
   (H)   No massage therapist or massage establishment employee or agent shall
administer a massage to any part of a patron's body which exhibits a skin
fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption, unless a physician
duly licensed in the State has certified in writing, that such patron may
safely be massaged on that area and prescribing the conditions thereof.
   (I)   Each massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot running
water with proper disinfectant before administering a massage to each patron.
   (J)   No massage establishment licensee under the provisions of this Chapter
shall knowingly permit any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises
who commits any act of public indecency or obscenity as provided in this Code
or as provided in the Illinois Criminal Code.
   (K)   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets and shall be
dispensed in unit doses so that bulk containers are not contaminated between
clients.
   (L)   Each massage establishment shall operate in compliance with all
applicable local, State and Federal laws and regulations, including, but not
limited to, any such laws and regulations relating to discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, gender, disability or age. (Ord. 1998-
11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-11: MANAGER ON PREMISES:
At all times during the hours of operation of a massage establishment there
shall be present a manager or other employee of the licensee, and a certified
massage therapist, each of whom shall not be less than eighteen (18) years of
age. A certified massage therapist may also serve as a manager. (Ord. 1998-11,
10-15-1998)
5-37-12: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide or keep, or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any massage establishment and no massage establishment shall be located on any
premises for which a license to sell alcoholic liquor has been issued. (Ord.
1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No massage establishment shall be open for business or in operation between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 1998-11,
10-15-1998)
5-37-14: EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGE THERAPIST:
No person shall employ as a massage therapist any person unless said person is
a certified massage therapist who has obtained and has in effect a valid permit
issued pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-15: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The massage business license and the certified massage therapist permit of each
and every certified massage therapist employed in the massage establishment,
shall be displayed in an open and conspicuous place in the premises to be
licensed. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-16: IDENTIFICATION CARD REQUIRED:
The Chief of Police shall provide each certified massage therapist granted a
permit with an identification card which shall contain a photograph of the
certified massage therapist and the full name of and permit number assigned to
said certified massage therapist, which must be worn by such certified massage
therapist at all times during the hours of operation of any establishment
granted a license pursuant to this Chapter. The identification card shall not
be covered or hidden in any fashion. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-17: INSPECTION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed massage establishment are provided for or required by
this Chapter, or any ordinance of the Village or are reasonably necessary to
assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the
Village, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee
or the person in charge of the premises to admit thereto for the purpose of
making the inspection any officer or employee of the Village who is duly
authorized to make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission
or entry is requested. Each such inspection shall be made at reasonable times
and in a reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to fail to
allow such inspection officer(s) access to the premises or to hinder such
officer(s) in any manner. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-18: NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS:
No person granted a license hereunder shall operate the massage establishment
under a name not specified in the license, nor shall the business be conducted
under any different designation or at any location not specified in the massage
establishment license. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-19: TRANSFER; CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP OR MANAGEMENT:
   (A)   Any license issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be applicable only
to the specific licensee and location designated, and may not be sold,
transferred or otherwise assigned. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
licensee remains the same and a request is made to designate and substitute a
different location, the Village President may approve such new location upon
submission of proof that such location is in compliance with all of the
provisions of this Chapter. A fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be required
for processing a request to change the location of the massage establishment.
   (B)   Any permit issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be applicable only
for the specific person designated, and may not be sold, transferred, or
otherwise assigned.
   (C)   A transfer in the ownership or control of a massage establishment
shall constitute a change in the licensee and the existing license shall be
deemed surrendered and extinguished. A new application and license shall be
filed and processed as provided in this Chapter prior to such transfer taking
effect. Any transfer in the ownership or control of a massage establishment in
violation of this Chapter shall constitute the operation of an unlicensed
massage establishment.
   (D)   Notice shall be provided prior to any change of the designated manager
conducting business for the massage establishment licensee. The new manager
must be qualified to operate the massage establishment as provided in this
Chapter. The licensee shall, not less than ten (10) business days before such
change is to take effect, give the Village President notice of such change. The
notice shall include any information concerning the new manager which is
required in this Chapter. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-20: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply and no license or
permit shall be required for any units of government, hospitals, nursing homes,
and sanitariums or for any individual while engaged in the personal performance
of their respective professions provided such individual is holding an
unrevoked certificate to practice the healing arts under the laws of the State
(including, but not limited to, physicians, surgeons, chiropractors,
osteopaths, physical therapists, nurses, paramedics, State of Illinois
registered athletic licensees who administer athletic-related massages in the
normal course of training duties) or to those working under the direction of
any such individuals in any such units of government, hospitals, nursing homes
and sanitariums.
   (B)   No license or permit shall be required for any barber, beautician or
cosmetologist lawfully carrying on their respective businesses to the extent
authorized under a valid unrevoked license or certificate of registration
issued by the State. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this exemption is only
intended to permit normal and customary barber, beautician or cosmetologist
services which involve incidental physical contact, such as hair, scalp and
neck rubs and facials, which would otherwise qualify as a massage. This
exemption is not intended to, and does not permit massage activities as part of
any barber, beautician or cosmetologist business beyond that authorized by
their respective State license or certification. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-21: LICENSE FEE AND PERIOD OF LICENSE:
   (A)   The fee for the original application for a massage establishment shall
be one hundred dollars ($100.00) and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
renewal application. The fee for the original application for a massage
therapist permit shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) and fifteen dollars ($15.00)
for each renewal application. All fees shall be paid at the time each
application is submitted to the Village. No application shall be processed
without the payment in full of the applicable fees even if the application is
made for a period of less than a full year.
   (B)   Commencing with May 1, 1998, each license year shall commence on May 1
of each year and shall expire on April 30 of the following year unless an
application is submitted after May 1 for any year (but before April 30 in the
following year) in which case the license or permit shall commence when issued
but shall expire on April 30 following the date of issuance. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-
15-1998)
5-37-22: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, in a massage establishment,
to knowingly place his or her hand or hands upon, to touch with any part of his
or her body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage, a sexual or genital area
or part of any other person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, in a massage establishment,
to expose his or her sexual or genital parts, or any portion thereof, to any
other individual. It shall also be unlawful for any individual, in a massage
establishment to expose the sexual or genital parts, or any portions thereof of
any other individual.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, while in the presence of any
other individual in a massage establishment, to fail to conceal with a fully
opaque covering, the sexual or genital parts of his or her body.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any individual owning, operating, or managing
a massage establishment, knowingly to cause, allow or permit in or about such
massage establishment any agent, employee, or any other individual under his
control or supervision to perform any such acts deemed to be unlawful by the
provisions in subsection (A), (B) or (E) of this Section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee under this Chapter to
administer a massage on an outcall basis as defined in this Chapter. Such
permittee shall administer a massage solely within an establishment licensed to
carry on such business under this Chapter.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any massage therapist employee or operator to
perform, offer to perform, or agree to perform any act which would require a
touching of a patron's genital or sexual area.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person who holds a license to operate a
massage establishment or a massage therapist permit within the Village to fail
to comply with any of the conditions and regulations set forth in this Chapter.
(Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-23: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any location used as a massage establishment in violation of this Chapter is
hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
5-37-24: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Every person, except those persons who are specifically exempted by this
Chapter, whether acting as an individual owner, employee of the owner, operator
or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere agent or independent
contractor for the owner, employee or operator, or acting as a participant or
worker in any way directly or indirectly who gives massages or operates a
massage establishment or provides any of the services defined in this Chapter
without first obtaining a license or permit and paying a fee to do so from the
Village or who violates any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon a finding of guilty such person shall be punished by a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and shall not exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or by imprisonment for a period which
shall not exceed six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or upon which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1998-11, 10-15-1998)
CHAPTER 38
RAFFLES
SECTION:
5-38-1: Raffle Licensing System
5-38-2: Qualified Organizations
5-38-3: Definitions
5-38-4: Application For License And License
5-38-5: Fees
5-38-6: Terms, Conditions And Limitations In Conducting Raffles
5-38-7: Prohibited Licensees
5-38-8: Violations And Fines
5-38-9: Limitation
5-38-1: RAFFLE LICENSING SYSTEM:
A system for the licensing of qualified organizations to operate raffles in
accordance with the Illinois raffles act shall be maintained and operated by
the village. (Ord. 2002-04, 4-4-2002)
5-38-2: QUALIFIED ORGANIZATIONS:
The village may issue raffle licenses only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five (5) years immediately before making application for a
license. During that entire five (5) year period, the applicant must have had a
bona fide membership engaged in carrying out the objects of the organization.
The village also may issue a raffle license to a nonprofit fundraising
organization that the village has determined is organized for the sole purpose
of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group of
individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness,
disability, accident or disaster. (Ord. 2002-04, 4-4-2002)
5-38-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together on a not for profit basis to advance the commercial,
financial, industrial and civic interests of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the "criminal code
of 1961", conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
   (A)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
   (B)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 2002-04, 4-4-2002)
5-38-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND LICENSE:
   (A)   Any qualified organization desiring to obtain a raffle license shall
file an application for raffle license on the form prescribed and provided by
the village with the village clerk, and shall pay any applicable license fees
at the time of filing the application.
   (B)   The license and application for license shall specify the area or
areas within the village in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the
time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of
determination of winning chances, and the location or locations at which
winning chances will be determined.
   (C)   The license application shall contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not for profit character of the prospective licensee organization, signed
by the presiding officer and the secretary of the organization.
   (D)   The village shall act on a license application within thirty (30) days
from the date the application is filed with the village clerk. (Ord. 2002-04,
4-4-2002)
5-38-5: FEES:
The fees for each license shall be as follows:
   (A)   The application fee for any religious, charitable, educational or
veterans' organization shall be five dollars ($5.00) for each single raffles
license.
   (B)   The application fee for any nonprofit fundraising organization that
the village has determined is organized for the sole purpose of providing
financial assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals
suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness, disability,
accident or disaster shall be one dollar ($1.00).
   (C)   The application fee for any labor, business, or fraternal organization
shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for each single raffles license.
   (D)   In addition to the license fee provided above, any qualified
organization desiring a license for more than one raffle, but not more than
three (3) raffles, shall pay an additional five dollars ($5.00) for each
additional raffle event it intends to conduct. All such raffles shall be
conducted within one year from the date the license is issued by the village,
and no organization shall conduct more than three (3) raffles in any one year.
(Ord. 2002-04, 4-4-2002)
5-38-6: TERMS, CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS IN CONDUCTING RAFFLES:
All qualified organizations obtaining a raffle license from the village shall
conduct each raffle in accordance with the Illinois raffles act and the
following terms, conditions and limitations:
   (A)   License Mandatory: No person, firm or corporation shall conduct
raffles or chances without having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to
this chapter and in accordance with the Illinois raffles act.
   (B)   Location Of Raffle Sales: The licensee shall sell raffle chances only
within the corporate boundaries of the village of River Grove, Cook County,
Illinois.
   (C)   Maximum Value Of All Prizes: The aggregate retail value of all prizes
or merchandise awarded by a licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
   (D)   Maximum Value Of Single Prize: The maximum retail value of each prize
awarded by a licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00).
   (E)   Maximum Ticket Charge: The maximum price which may be charged for each
raffle chance issued or sold shall not exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   (F)   Maximum Length Of Ticket Sales: The maximum number of days during
which chances may be issued or sold shall be sixty (60) days from the date the
license is issued by the president of the village. In the event the
organization has received a license for more than one raffle, tickets for each
licensed raffle shall be issued and sold within a sixty (60) day period in
accordance with the schedule provided by the organization in its application
for raffle license.
   (G)   Conduct Of Raffles: All organizations licensed to conduct a raffle,
and all individuals acting on behalf of the licensed organization, shall comply
with the following restrictions when conducting any raffle:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle shall be exclusively devoted
to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct the raffle.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.
      4.   A licensee may rent a premises on which it will determine the
winning chance or chances in a raffle only if the lessor is an organization
which is also licensed under this act. If a lessor rents premises where a
winning chance or chances on a raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be
criminally liable if the person who uses the premises for the determining of
winning chances does not hold a license issued by the village under the
provisions of this chapter and in accordance with the Illinois raffles act.
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
      6.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be within the area
where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
   (H)   Designation Of Raffle Manager And Bond: The operation of and the
conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a single raffle manager
designated by the organization. The manager shall provide a fidelity bond in an
amount determined by the village in favor of the organization conditioned upon
manager's honesty in the performance of the duties of the position. Terms of
the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the village not
less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation. The village may waive
this bond requirement by including a waiver provision in the license issued to
an organization, provided that a license containing such waiver provision shall
be granted if requested by a unanimous vote of the members of the licensed
organization. The organization shall designate the raffle manager, and provide
the village with certified copies of the organization's minutes appointing the
manager, and if applicable, of the unanimous vote of the organization's members
requesting that the village waive the bond requirements set forth above.
   (I)   Records, Banking And Accounting:
      1.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
      2.   Gross receipts from the operation of each raffle program shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the department of revenue of the state
of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
      3.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership and to the corporate
authorities of the village, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from
raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this
section.
      4.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to the
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2002-04, 4-4-2002)
5-38-7: PROHIBITED LICENSEES:
The following persons and organizations shall not be eligible for any license
under this chapter or the Illinois raffles act:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection (A),
(B) or (C) of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B) or
(C) of this section is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated
or not;
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (A), (B) or
(C) of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
"raffle" as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 2002-04, 4-4-2002)
5-38-8: VIOLATIONS AND FINES:
In addition to the sanctions provided in the Illinois raffles act, any person
or organization in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day a violation
is determined to exist. The corporate authorities may also revoke the license
of the organization. (Ord. 2002-04, 4-4-2002)
5-38-9: LIMITATION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for herein and under the Illinois raffles act. (Ord. 2002-
04, 4-4-2002)
CHAPTER 39
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
5-39-1: Intent And Purpose
5-39-2: Definitions
5-39-3: General Conditions
5-39-4: Permit For Home Occupation
5-39-5: Nonconforming Existing Home Occupations
5-39-6: Penalties
5-39-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   (A)   It is recognized that certain limited home occupations may be
beneficial to the general community as well as the residential land user. Such
occupations are allowed if such occupations are:
      1.   Incidental to the residential use of the property; and
      2.   Compatible with the residential use of the property on which they
occur, with neighboring residential properties, and with the residential zoning
district in which they occur.
   (B)   To this extent, certain restricted occupations are permitted within
dwellings in residential districts subject to the procedures and restrictions
of this section. Such occupations will be allowed if and only if they:
      1.   Are incidental to the residential use of the lot;
      2.   Are compatible with the residential uses;
      3.   Are limited in scope and extent; and
      4.   Do not detract from the residential character of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 2006-19, 8-3-2006)
5-39-2: DEFINITIONS:
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation or profession performed in whole or in
part as an accessory use upon a residential lot and engaged in by an occupant
of a dwelling unit thereon.
HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT: A written agreement between the village of River Grove
and a resident who wishes to establish a home occupation at his or her
residence. Such a permit shall establish the extent and duration of the home
occupation in addition to allowing the home occupation as a nonintrusive
exception to the strictly residential character of dwellings within residential
districts. The home occupation permit may establish conditions of approval and
procedures for revocation and renewal.
HOME OFFICE OF CONVENIENCE: A quasi-office within a dwelling in which:
   (A)   A resident conducts no business other than by mail, phone or similar
electronic transmission;
   (B)   No equipment is utilized other than that typically found within a
dwelling or an office;
   (C)   No persons are involved as customers, clients, patrons or employees
within the dwelling who are not residents thereof; and
   (D)   Functions are limited to sending and receiving mail and telephone
calls, maintaining records, word processing, data manipulation and other
similar clerical functions. (Ord. 2006-19, 8-3-2006)
5-39-3: GENERAL CONDITIONS:
Any permitted home occupation is subject to the following general conditions:
   (A)   Operation Within Unit: A home occupation shall be operated entirely
within a dwelling unit or a detached or attached garage accessory to the
dwelling unit.
   (B)   Entrance: A home occupation shall not have a separate entrance from
outside any building, or otherwise involve an alteration in the residential
appearance of any structure upon the property.
   (C)   External Evidence: A home occupation shall not display or create
outside any building any external evidence of its operation. A home occupation
shall not display any sign or advertisement visible from outside of the
dwelling unit or accessory improvement.
   (D)   Vehicles Or Equipment Displaying Occupation: Any vehicle or equipment
having the business name of the home occupation visible on it shall not be
parked upon any right of way within a residential district, unless such vehicle
or equipment is being utilized in the provision of services to a customer of
the home occupation at the customer's location. No vehicle or equipment having
the business name of the home occupation visible on it shall be parked on the
lot associated with the home occupation in such a manner that the vehicle or
equipment is visible from off of the lot.
   (E)   Floor Area: A home occupation shall not utilize more than the lesser
of:
      1.   Twenty percent (20%) of the gross floor area of the habitable area
of the dwelling unit; or
      2.   Three hundred (300) square feet.
   (F)   Employees: A home occupation shall not have any employees or regular
assistants not residing in the dwelling unit whose duties require their
presence or assembly upon the property or within the residential district in
the dwelling's vicinity. Employees of the home occupation may not park any
motor vehicle on a public right of way in the residential district.
   (G)   Performance Limitations And Standards: A home occupation shall not
utilize mechanical or electrical equipment other than the type normally found
in a dwelling unit or associated with domestic or hobby purposes, and there
shall be no special structural alterations or construction features to the
dwelling or accessory improvements, nor the installation of any special
equipment attached to any wall, floor or ceiling of any improvement. Electrical
or mechanical equipment that creates visible or audible interference in radio
or television receivers or causes fluctuation in line voltage outside the
dwelling unit or that creates noise not normally associated with residential
uses is prohibited. The home occupation shall produce no offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, electrical interference, dust or other particulate matter,
odors, heat, humidity or glare detectable to normal sensory perception beyond
the property lines, or beyond the walls of the dwelling unit if the unit is
part of a multi-family structure. No toxic, explosive, flammable, combustible,
corrosive, etiologic or radioactive materials, or materials which decompose by
detonation shall be stored or used in connection with a home occupation.
   (H)   Clerk's Disposition Of Application And Right Of Appeal: The judgment
of the clerk shall be considered decisive and final with respect to any home
occupation permit application unless the applicant formally appeals to the
board of trustees within forty five (45) days of the clerk's written
determination and disposition of an application.
   (I)   Sales And Displays; Sales Parties: A home occupation shall not involve
the sale of commodities or goods upon the premises. Merchandise shall not be
displayed or offered for sale either within or outside of the residence. Sales
parties, however, may be held on the premises subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   The operator of the home occupation has served the clerk with notice
of the sales party, including the date and time of the party; and
      2.   Such sales parties are held not more than twelve (12) times a year,
nor more than three (3) times within any calendar month.
   (J)   Services; Number Of Persons Present: A home occupation shall not
provide services to more than three (3) persons present on the property at any
given time, and no more than ten (10) such persons daily. In a home occupation
in which classes are held or instruction is given, however, the clerk may
approve the presence of up to six (6) students in the home at any given time if
he or she finds that the additional students will not generate additional motor
vehicle traffic.
   (K)   Hours: No operation of a home occupation involving visitors or
customers shall be conducted between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., other than the provision of allowable baby sitting
or daycare services which may commence at six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M.,
unless otherwise regulated by the grant of a conditional use through the zoning
board of appeals.
   (L)   Parking: A home occupation shall not displace or impede use of parking
spaces required by this code, nor shall the use of space within a garage other
than for vehicle parking in conjunction with the home occupation, render the
garage unusable for provision of parking spaces required by this code.
   (M)   Visitors, Customers Or Deliveries: Visitors, customers or deliveries
shall not exceed that normally and reasonably occurring for a residence. The
home occupation shall not generate greater traffic volumes or have a greater
impact upon availability of parking than would normally be expected from
residential uses in a residential neighborhood. The judgment of the clerk shall
be considered decisive and final in such matters unless formally appealed to
the board of trustees within forty five (45) days of the clerk's written
determination.
   (N)   Advertising: No advertisement for the home occupation shall be placed
containing the address of the property.
   (O)   Exterior Storage: A home occupation shall not involve the exterior
storage of materials, supplies or equipment used in conjunction thereof. No
waste resulting from any off site operation of a home occupation shall be
stored in any manner on the lot associated with the home occupation or upon any
right of way within a residential district.
   (P)   Delivery Vehicles; Size: A home occupation shall not involve
deliveries either to it or from it with vehicles larger than a one ton truck.
   (Q)   Number Of Deliveries; Hours: Deliveries shall not exceed one per week
and shall only occur between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. (Ord. 2006-19, 8-3-2006)
5-39-4: PERMIT FOR HOME OCCUPATION:
   (A)   Required: Unless specifically excepted by this section, no person
shall operate a home occupation without first having obtained a home occupation
permit from the village.
   (B)   Application For Permit; Contents: An application for a home occupation
permit shall be made upon a form provided by the clerk, on which the applicant
shall state:
      1.   The location of the proposed home occupation;
      2.   The name of the designated permittee;
      3.   The type or types of occupation for which the permit is applied,
specifying all services provided and activities in which the permittee or his/
her designee will engage in performance of the home occupation;
      4.   The types and amounts of supplies used in conjunction with the home
occupation and the types of equipment used in conjunction with the home
occupation which will be present on the residential property;
      5.   Projections of the number of persons not living within the dwelling
unit who, owing to the establishment of the home occupation, will come to the
residential property or any residential area in its immediate vicinity and the
frequency of such visits;
      6.   The square footage and its location on the lot which is proposed to
be devoted to the home occupation;
      7.   Any other information which the clerk may, at his/her discretion,
require.
   (C)   Conditions: The home occupation permit may establish conditions of
approval and procedures for revocation and renewal. The judgment of the clerk
shall be considered decisive and final with respect to any home occupation
permit application unless the applicant formally appeals to the board of
trustees within forty five (45) days of the clerk's written determination and
disposition of an application.
   (D)   Fees; Inspections: The village board may establish fees for the
issuance of home occupation permits or for the performance of inspections
relative to their issuance.
   (E)   Expiration; Reissuance: Home occupation permits shall expire April 30
of each year. The clerk may reissue permits upon proper application.
   (F)   Inspections: The clerk shall not issue a home occupation permit unless
an inspection has been made of the property on which it shall be operating. In
addition, the clerk or his/her designee, shall have the right at any time, upon
reasonable request, to enter and inspect a property and the structures thereon,
which are the subject of a home occupation permit. In the event the operator of
a home occupation has reapplied for a home occupation permit no more than sixty
(60) days after the expiration of the prior home occupation permit, the clerk
may find that the inspection requirement has been met by a previous inspection
if there is no record of complaints relative to the operation of the home
occupation.
   (G)   Application To Other Agencies: The clerk shall forward a copy of each
application for a home occupation permit which he/she receives to the building,
health and emergency services departments of the village, and each such
department shall perform appropriate inspections of the premises and forward
such inspection reports to the clerk before issuance of any home occupation
permit.
   (H)   Violations; Revocation: A home occupation permittee's violation of any
general conditions and/or any specific conditions associated with a home
occupation permit is sufficient to cause revocation of the home occupation
permit.
   (I)   Home Office Of Convenience; Exception: No home occupation permit shall
be required if the person engaged in the occupation is exclusively engaged in
the operation of a home office of convenience as an employee for an entity, the
principal place of business of which is located elsewhere within the state.
(Ord. 2006-19, 8-3-2006)
5-39-5: NONCONFORMING EXISTING HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Persons conducting a business from a dwelling within a residential district on
the effective date hereof which is rendered nonconforming by this chapter must
obtain a home occupation permit or cease the operation of their home occupation
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date hereof or not later
than April 30 of the year following the effective date hereof, whichever date
comes last. No nonresidential activity in a dwelling within a residential
district which was nonconforming prior to the effective date hereof shall be
allowed by virtue of this section, unless the operator of the activity obtains
a home occupation permit. (Ord. 2006-19, 8-3-2006)
5-39-6: PENALTIES:
In addition to revocation of any home occupation permit, any person, except
those persons who are specifically exempted by law, whether acting as an
individual owner, employee of the owner, operator or employee of the operator,
or whether acting as a mere agent or independent contractor for the owner,
employee or operator, or acting as a participant or worker in any way directly
or indirectly, who engages in a home occupation and who violates any provision
of this chapter may be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) but not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or upon which a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 2006-19, 8-3-2006)
CHAPTER 40
OUTDOOR DINING FACILITIES ON PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
5-40-1: Definition
5-40-2: Application And Licensing
5-40-3: Outdoor Dining Regulations And Restrictions
5-40-4: License Denial And Revocation
5-40-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter, "public right of way" shall include sidewalks,
bump outs, parkway and parking areas owned and maintained by the village. (Ord.
2011-21, 8-4-2011)
5-40-2: APPLICATION AND LICENSING:
The application and licensing policies and procedures for outdoor dining
licenses on public right of way shall be as follows:
   (A)   Limited To Public Right Of Way Contiguous To The Private Property Of
Licensed Restaurants Operations: The use of public right of way for restaurant
tables, chairs and/or umbrellas shall only be permitted incidental to the
operation of a restaurant on private contiguous property, provided that the
service of food for consumption on the premises constitutes at least fifty
percent (50%) of the business activity under the restaurant license and where
such use is permitted by the zoning ordinance of the village. A license will be
issued for outdoor seating on public right of way only to public restaurants
which have obtained a business license under this code. A license may be
purchased at any time once approved, but shall expire on April 30 following the
date of issuance unless renewed. An annual license fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be charged. Application for annual renewal must be made prior
to the expiration date and must be accompanied by the annual renewal fee.
   (B)   Unlicensed Use Of Public Right Of Way Prohibited: Notwithstanding any
other provision in this code, it is unlawful for any person to use the public
right of way for outdoor seating without obtaining a license from the village
clerk.
   (C)   Limited And Seasonal License: If licensed, the outdoor fixtures and
personal property of any restaurant may only be placed on the public right of
way between April 1 and November 15 of each year. In addition to the seasonal
limitation of an outdoor dining license, the village may also restrict the
operation of outdoor dining areas during certain events which may be sponsored
by the village or other community organizations so as not to hamper pedestrian
traffic or endanger the public health, safety or welfare. During such
restricted periods, all fixtures and personal property shall be removed from
the public right of way. Such events may include parades and street fests.
Licensees will be notified by the village of the dates of these events at least
thirty (30) days in advance of the restricted period of operations.
   (D)   Application And Fee: An applicant for an outdoor seating restaurant
license must complete an application in a form approved by the village and
submit same to the village clerk with a fifty dollar ($50.00) nonrefundable
application fee. All applications shall include the following information or
documentation:
      1.   A detailed site plan depicting all existing objects on the property
and on the public right of way adjacent to the restaurant including a depiction
of on street parking adjacent to the restaurant, and the proposed location of
each item or items to be placed on the public right of way.
      2.   A certificate of insurance in the following amounts:
         (a) One million dollars ($1,000,000.00), comprehensive general
liability; and
         (b) Workers' compensation with statutory limits showing the village,
its officers, employees and agents as additional insureds and containing a
statement that said policies shall not be altered or canceled without thirty
(30) days' written notice to the village.
      3.   A signed indemnification statement on the form provided by the
village.
   (E)   Review Of Application; Submit Report: The director of public works,
health and safety officer and director of economic development shall review the
application and submit a report to the clerk regarding whether the proposed use
will unreasonably interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic and whether
the proposed use complies with applicable municipal code requirements. (Ord.
2011-21, 8-4-2011)
5-40-3: OUTDOOR DINING REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
All licenses shall be subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   No outdoor dining fixtures and personal property shall be used or
stored on the public right of way between November 16 and March 31.
   (B)   Tables, chairs and umbrellas shall be removed from the public right of
way at the end of each business day, unless licensee has received express
written permission from the village clerk to the contrary and all outdoor
furniture is properly stored and secured.
   (C)   All public improvements on the public right of way shown on the site
plan submitted by the applicant/licensee, including, but not limited to,
improved surfaces, pavers, benches, light poles, parking bumpers, and trees
shall be maintained in the condition in which they existed immediately prior to
the issuance of the license excluding normal wear and tear. License holders
shall immediately report any damage to such improvements to the village clerk.
The village shall repair or replace such improvements at its discretion and
shall charge the cost of repair and/or replacement to the licensee unless the
damage is clearly shown to have resulted from a cause not related to the
issuance of the outdoor dining license.
   (D)   Hours for outdoor dining operations shall be from eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday, and eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and Saturday.
   (E)   Tables, chairs, umbrellas and trash containers on the public right of
way shall:
      1.   Be located so that a four foot (4') wide unobstructed walkway is
maintained at all times, including when patrons are being seated, are sitting
or leaving the outdoor dining area;
      2.   Not obstruct normal ingress and egress from the restaurant in any
manner;
      3.   Be located so that clearances required will be maintained when a
chair is pulled out from a table, particularly where chair backs face the
street or pedestrian walkway;
      4.   Not be of a design and/or weight that will create a windblown
hazard, and must be approved by the director of public works;
      5.   Have located nearby, and for the cleanup thereof, trash containers
which shall be removed daily when operations are completed.
   (F)   Umbrellas, individually or in a group, shall not exceed four feet (4')
in diameter and may be placed on tables in the area abutting the restaurant to
which the license is issued.
   (G)   The licensee, by applying and securing an outdoor license, irrevocably
appoints and authorizes the village the right to remove tables, chairs and/or
umbrellas from the public right of way at any time when, in its sole
discretion, it determines that the placement of said items violates the
standards set forth herein, obstructs or creates a hazard on the public right
of way or otherwise threatens the public health, safety or welfare.
   (H)   The following items or actions are prohibited in the public right of
way:
      1.   Tables, chairs and umbrellas on locations not approved by the
director of public works;
      2.   Electrical appliances of any kind;
      3.   Live entertainment or live music.
   (I)   No service or consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted on
the public right of way unless the corporate authorities have authorized the
local liquor control commissioner to issue a seasonal outdoor retail liquor
license to a licensed retail liquor licensee, and the retail liquor licensee
has secured such an outdoor retail liquor license. If the licensee has obtained
a seasonal outdoor retail liquor license, no alcoholic beverage may be served
to any patron unless same is served as a complement to the sale of food.
   (J)   Licensees shall comply with all other applicable sanitary requirements
for the operation of a restaurant. (Ord. 2011-21, 8-4-2011)
5-40-4: LICENSE DENIAL AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   License Denial, Appeal And Hearing: Should any license be denied, the
village clerk shall set forth the reasons for denial, such as a finding that
placement of said tables, chairs and/or umbrellas would unduly obstruct the
public right of way, or creates a hazard, or would otherwise be detrimental to
the public health, safety and welfare, and shall thereafter mail the same to
the applicant at the applicant's last known address, after which the applicant
shall have ten (10) days from the mailing of the village clerk's letter to
appeal the decision in writing to the village board of trustees, who shall hear
such appeal at a time approved by the village board. The village board shall
deny or approve the license, or approve the license with conditions after
hearing the appeal and direct the village clerk to forward to the appellant the
findings of the village board.
   (B)   Revocation Of License: A license may be revoked or denied for any
violation of any provision of this section, for any fraud or misrepresentation
in the license application, and for any reason which would have been grounds
for denial of the license. (Ord. 2011-21, 8-4-2011)
CHAPTER 41
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
SECTION:
5-41-1: Definitions
5-41-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
5-41-3: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
5-41-4: Applicable Principles
5-41-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
5-41-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
5-41-7: Late Fees; Payments
5-41-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   (A)   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection (A)9 of
this definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   (B)   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   (C)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service
areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 2011-28, 12-1-2011)
5-41-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   (A)   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   (B)   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues, or the percentage of gross revenue
being paid to the village by any incumbent cable operator providing cable
service, whichever is less.
   (C)   Notice To The Village: The holder shall notify the village at least
ten (10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable
service or video service in the village.
   (D)   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   (E)   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection (B) of this section. (Ord. 2011-28, 12-1-2011)
5-41-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
   (A)   PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to section
5-41-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be one percent (1%) of the holder's gross revenues or, if greater, the
percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village
or its designee for PEG access support in the village.
   (C)   Payment: The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the
village or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The
holder's liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date
set forth in subsection
5-41-2(D) of this chapter.
   (D)   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   (E)   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that that operator owes under subsection (B) of this
section. (Ord. 2011-28, 12-1-2011)
5-41-4: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2011-28, 12-1-2011)
5-41-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2011-28,
12-1-2011)
5-41-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   (A)   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for
the sum. (Ord. 2011-28, 12-1-2011)
5-41-7: LATE FEES; PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this village pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of
rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 2011-28, 12-1-
2011)
CHAPTER 42
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
5-42-1: Definitions
5-42-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner Duties To Include The Administration
And Enforcement Of The Video Gaming Ordinance
5-42-3: License Required
5-42-4: Application For License; Registration Fee
5-42-5: License Fee And License Renewal
5-42-6: Hours Of Operation
5-42-7: License Restrictions; Requirements
5-42-8: Liquor License And Video Gaming License Violations
5-42-9: Amusement Only Video Gaming Terminals And Devices Prohibited
5-42-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions for this chapter are those definitions set forth in the
Illinois video gaming act 1 and any emergency amendments related thereto, which
definitions are herein incorporated into this section by reference. The
following definitions are listed for convenience purposes if same are more
pertinent and germane to this chapter:
AMUSEMENT VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video gaming machine that, upon
insertion of cash or token, is available to play or simulate the play of a
video game, including, but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack,
utilizing a video display and microprocessors but through which the player does
not openly receive coins, cash, tokens, free games or credits that can be
redeemed for cash, and which are otherwise commonly claimed to exist for
amusement purposes only. Amusement video gaming terminal does not include
electronic music devices, dartboards, and such other games that are not
commonly associated with gaming activities such as poker, blackjack, etc.
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any retail establishment licensed by the village where
alcoholic liquor is drawn, poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption
on the premises (class B, class N and class R liquor licenses).
MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
TERMINAL OPERATOR: Any individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that is licensed under the Illinois video gaming act that
owns, services, and maintains video gaming terminals for placement in licensed
establishments.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video gaming machine that, upon insertion
of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including,
but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized by the
board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may
receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not
include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only. (Ord. 2012-14, 11-1-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/5.
5-42-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER DUTIES TO INCLUDE THE ADMINISTRATION
AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE VIDEO GAMING ORDINANCE:
The duties of the president who serves as the local liquor control commissioner
pursuant to section
5-24-2 of this title shall include the administration and enforcement of the
local video gaming ordinance and shall perform all duties not preempted by the
video gaming act which are necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Any hearing regarding the administration and enforcement of the local video
gaming ordinance shall be called and conducted in the same manner as hearings
before the local liquor control commission under section
5-24-24 of this title. (Ord. 2012-14, 11-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-04, 3-17-2022)
5-42-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensed establishment to display, operate or
otherwise permit the use and operation of any video gaming terminal without
having first obtained a license from the local liquor control commissioner. It
shall be a prerequisite to any such video gaming terminal license issued by the
Village that such applicant has in place the following licenses:
   (A)   A valid license from the Illinois Gaming Board to operate as a
licensed establishment; and
   (B)   A valid State of Illinois liquor license issued by the Illinois Liquor
Commission; and
   (C)   A valid liquor license for service of alcoholic liquor on the premises
issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 2012-14, 11-1-2012; amd.
Ord. 2022-04, 3-17-2022)
5-42-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; REGISTRATION FEE:
All applications for a video gaming license shall be made to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner or his or her designated agent. All initial and renewal
applications shall be accompanied by a five hundred dollar ($500.00)
nonrefundable application fee, which fee shall be utilized in the normal
processing and investigation of the license application and shall not be
applied toward the regular license fee.
The applications shall be made on forms approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and shall contain as a minimum, the following information or
documentation:
   (A)   A copy of a valid Illinois Gaming Board license; and
   (B)   A copy of a valid Illinois liquor license; and
   (C)   A copy of a valid Village of River Grove liquor license; and
   (D)   The number and type of video gaming terminals to be operated; and
   (E)   A statement as to whether the applicant has made similar application
and the disposition of such application. (Ord. 2012-14, 11-1-2012; amd. Ord.
2022-04, 3-17-2022)
5-42-5: LICENSE FEE AND LICENSE RENEWAL:
The annual license fee for each video gaming terminal shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00), which fee shall be due before the issuance of any initial
license or the annual commencement date of May 1 of each year for any renewal
license. All licenses shall terminate on April 30 of each year unless timely
renewed for the subsequent year prior thereto. All licenses are renewable
annually unless sooner canceled or terminated. Any renewal application received
following the expiration date of any license shall be subject to a late fee of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per license. A failure to submit a renewal
license application within sixty (60) days of the expiration date of a license
shall be deemed a forfeiture of said license. No license issued under this
chapter is transferable or assignable, and no license fee shall be prorated
under any circumstances. (Ord. 2012-14, 11-1-2012)
5-42-6: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The video gaming license shall be in full force and effect during the hours of
operation of the liquor license establishment wherein the video gaming
terminals are located, and as otherwise permitted under section
5-24-21 of this title. (Ord. 2012-14, 11-1-2012)
5-42-7: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS; REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Locations Of Terminals; Minors Prohibited: All video gaming terminals
shall be located in a segregated area which shall not be accessible to minors.
Applicants shall submit a site plan clearly indicating the proposed location of
all video gaming terminals and the type of barrier to be utilized to segregate
the area, provided, however, that such barrier shall not obstruct the view of
the video gaming area which shall be visible to an employee at all times.
Furthermore, such site plan must be approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner or his or her designated agent.
   (B)   Burglar Alarm: Unless otherwise authorized by the Chief of Police, all
licensed establishments shall be equipped with a burglar alarm system, and
whenever any alarm is activated or the alarm detects unauthorized entry into a
licensed premises, the licensed establishment and the alarm vendor shall
promptly and immediately contact the Norcomm Public Safety Communication, Inc.,
Consolidated 9-1-1 Emergency Dispatch Center in all instances. The burglar
alarm shall be activated upon any unpermitted entry into the establishment,
which system shall be approved by the Chief of Police. The license of any
licensed establishment which directly or through its alarm vendor fails to
promptly and immediately notify the Norcomm Public Safety Communication, Inc.,
Consolidated 9-1-1 Emergency Dispatch Center of any activated alarm or any
unpermitted entry into the establishment shall be subject to suspension or
revocation.
   (C)   Video Camera Surveillance: Each licensed establishment shall be
required to install, operate and maintain a video camera surveillance system
capable of recording clear and unobstructed photographic representations of the
segregated area of the establishment where the terminals are located and shall
retain the video recordings produced therefrom for a minimum of thirty (30)
days. Said video recordings shall be subject to inspections by the Police
Department upon request therefor.
   (D)   Compliance With Illinois Video Gaming Act: Each licensee shall conform
and adhere to the following sections of the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40 and any amendments or emergency amendments
relating to any of said sections:
      1.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/15, minimum requirements for
licensing and registration.
      2.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/20, direct dispensing of receipt
tickets only.
      3.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/25, restriction of licensees.
      4.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/26, residency requirements.
      5.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/30, multiple types of licenses
prohibited.
      6.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/35, display of license;
confiscation.
      7.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/40, video gaming terminal use by
minors prohibited.
      8.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/55, precondition for licensed
location.
      9.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/57, insurance.
      10.   230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/58, location of terminals. (Ord.
2012-14, 11-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2017-22, 12-21-2017; Ord. 2022-04, 3-17-2022)
5-42-8: LIQUOR LICENSE AND VIDEO GAMING LICENSE VIOLATIONS:
Each licensed establishment, by statute and/or ordinance, has a liquor license
in the Village as well. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may treat any
violations of the provisions of this chapter as a violation of the liquor
license regulations of chapter 24 of this title and proceed accordingly with
respect to the enforcement provisions set forth in chapter 24 of this title,
including the authority to fine, suspend or revoke a license as established in
section
5-24-24 of this title. In addition to all penalties authorized in section
5-24-24 of this title, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in fulfilling his
or her duties of administering and enforcing the video gaming ordinance, may
require a mandatory identification process for all individuals entering the
segregated area designated for video gaming terminals and such other
requirements as are deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter. In
addition, should the State or local liquor license of the establishment be
suspended or revoked, then, and in that event, any video gaming license of the
establishment shall likewise be suspended or revoked concurrently. (Ord. 2012-
14, 11-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-04, 3-17-2022)
5-42-9: AMUSEMENT ONLY VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS AND DEVICES PROHIBITED:
Effective May 1, 2013, any and all amusement video gaming terminals or devices
which are presented as being for amusement only are prohibited. All permissible
video gaming terminals and devices shall otherwise be authorized and approved
under the Illinois Video Gaming Act and properly licensed under Illinois law
and this chapter. In addition to revocation of any business license(s)
applicable to the location at which any prohibited amusement only terminals or
devices are maintained or operated, any individual or entity, whether acting
directly or indirectly, maintaining or operating such prohibited amusement only
video gaming devices may be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) but not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Furthermore, any video gaming license issued to a licensed establishment under
this chapter shall be revoked if the licensed establishment is found to have
maintained or otherwise operated prohibited amusement only video gaming
terminals or devices. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or upon which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2012-14, 11-1-2012)
CHAPTER 43
TAXES
ARTICLE A. HOME RULE MUNICIPAL HOTEL TAX
SECTION:
5-43A-1: Definitions
5-43A-2: Imposition Of Tax; Tax Is Additional; Regulation Of Stays Less Than
And In Excess Of Thirty Days
5-43A-3: Payment And Collection Of Tax
5-43A-4: Reports And Records
5-43A-5: Tax Delinquencies; License Suspension Or Revocation
5-43A-6: Interest And Penalty
5-43A-7: Proceeds Of Tax
5-43A-8: Additional Penalties
5-43A-9: Effect On Other Provisions
5-43A-10: Severability
5-43A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings given to them in this section:
HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for consideration,
obtain temporary living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping accommodations. The
word "hotel" shall include, without limitation, inns, motels, suites, tourist
homes or courts, lodging houses, rooming houses, and apartment houses.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms, in a hotel
for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013)
5-43A-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; TAX IS ADDITIONAL; REGULATION OF STAYS LESS THAN
AND IN EXCESS OF THIRTY DAYS:
   (A)   A tax is hereby levied and imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel or motel in the
village or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the leasing or renting of
rooms in a hotel or motel in the village at a rate of three dollars ($3.00) per
day for each such rental, leasing or letting. The ultimate incidence of and
liability for payment of said tax shall be borne by the user, lessee or tenant
of said rooms. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes.
   (B)   When the rental period exceeds a period of thirty (30) or more
consecutive days, a tax is hereby levied and imposed upon all persons engaged
in the business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel or motel in
the village or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the leasing or
renting of rooms in a hotel or motel in the village at the rate of one thousand
dollars ($1,000) for each thirty (30) day period and any prorated fraction
thereof.
   (C)   No hotel, motel, extended-stay hotel located within the village shall
allow any person to occupy such facility for more than twenty-nine (29)
consecutive days unless otherwise permitted as follows:
      1.   No guest residing for more than twenty-nine (29) consecutive days
shall begin a new rental agreement with the hotel, motel, or extended stay
hotel without at least a two (2)-day vacancy between stays.
      2.   No hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel located within the village
shall allow any person to occupy such hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel as
his or her permanent residence, and/or to utilize the hotel, motel, or
extended-stay hotel address as his or her mailing address.
   (D)   Notwithstanding subsection (C), a stay in excess of twenty-nine (29)
consecutive days, or utilizing the hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel as a
mailing address by a guest is permitted under the following situations:
      1.   Where there is a written contract or documented agreement between a
hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel and a business, corporation, firm or
governmental agency to house employees or individuals on valid work orders;
      2.   Where there is documentation, consistent with HIPPA privacy rules,
that a hotel guest is considered family or is providing care for a patient who
is admitted at local hospital;
      3.   When an insurance company or federal, state or local agency has
provided documentation that a hotel guest has been displaced from their home by
a natural disaster or fire; or
      4.   Where there is a written contract or documented agreement between a
hotel, motel, or extended-stay hotel and an organization to provide emergency
or transitional housing/shelter.
   (E)   All hotels, motels, and extended-stay hotels are required to comply
with all applicable provisions of this Code, including but not limited to the
taxes and regulations imposed in Section
5-43A-2; however, the additional tax imposed for stays exceeding a period of
thirty (30) or more consecutive days provided in Section
5-43A-2(B) shall not apply to stays under the exceptions in Section
5-43A-2(D) in the event less than ten percent (10%) of the total hotel, motel
or extended-stay hotel occupancy is being used subject to any such exception at
any given time.
(Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-28, 1-8-2024)
5-43A-3: PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAX:
   (A)   The owner and operator of each village hotel ("owner or operator")
shall bear, jointly and severally, the duty to collect the hotel tax from each
user, lessee, or tenant of a room or rooms in the hotel and to otherwise comply
with the requirements of this article. Every person required to collect the
hotel tax shall secure payment of the hotel tax from the user, lessee, or
tenant at the time that such person collects the price, charge, or rent to
which it applies. Every user, lessee, or tenant shall be given a bill, invoice,
receipt, or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge, or rent upon
which the hotel tax is computed, and the amount of the hotel tax shall be
stated, charged, and shown separately thereon. The hotel tax shall be paid to
the person required to collect it as trustee for and on behalf of the village.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility and duty of the village comptroller or
designee to collect all amounts due the village under this article from the
owner or operator of village hotels. (Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013)
5-43A-4: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
   (A)   Quarterly Reports:
      1.   A quarterly report, on such forms as may be prescribed by the
village comptroller, shall be filed by the owner or operator of each village
hotel. The quarterly report shall certify all receipts from each renting,
leasing, or letting of a room or rooms during the preceding three (3) months.
The beginning date for the reporting quarters shall be January 1, April 1, July
1, and October 1 of each calendar year.
      2.   Each quarterly report shall be accompanied by payment to the village
of all hotel taxes due and owing for the reporting quarter; provided, however,
that the owner or operator of the village hotel making the quarterly report may
retain an amount of money equal to no more than one percent (1%) of the hotel
taxes due in such quarter as compensation for services rendered in the
collection and payment of such tax. The report shall clearly identify and
calculate any retention for administrative expenses.
      3.   The quarterly report shall be filed with, and the tax due and owing
shall be paid at the same time, to the village on or before the fifteenth day
of the month following the end of each quarter.
   (B)   Inspection Of Books And Records: The village comptroller, or any
person designated by the village comptroller, may enter the premises of any
village hotel for the purpose of inspecting and examining the hotel books and
records to ensure proper administration of and compliance with this article and
to otherwise enforce the collection of the hotel tax. It shall be unlawful for
any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the village comptroller or the
village comptroller's duly authorized representative in the discharge of the
duties created by this article or other applicable ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013)
5-43A-5: TAX DELINQUENCIES; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   (A)   Notice Of Delinquency: If the village comptroller determines that a
village hotel owner or operator has failed to deliver to the village all hotel
taxes due pursuant to this article, the village comptroller shall notify the
hotel owner or operator of such determination in writing. Such notice shall
also set forth a date on which the hotel owner or operator may contest such
determination in an administrative hearing before a member of the village board
of trustees appointed by the village president.
   (B)   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: If, after an administrative
hearing, it is found that any hotel owner or operator has wilfully evaded its
responsibility to collect and pay to the village the hotel tax, the village
comptroller may, in addition to any other authorized actions, suspend or revoke
any and all village licenses issued to such hotel including, without
limitation, any business or liquor licenses. Any license suspension or
revocation resulting from such hearing shall not relieve or discharge a village
hotel owner or operator of civil liability for the nonpayment of the hotel tax.
(Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013)
5-43A-6: INTEREST AND PENALTY:
In the event any village hotel owner or operator fails to collect and remit the
hotel tax (or any portion thereof) to the village within thirty (30) days after
the same is due, interest shall accumulate and be due upon the unpaid portion
of the hotel tax at the rate of one percent (1%) per month. In addition, in the
event any village hotel owner or operator fails to collect and remit the hotel
tax (or any portion thereof) to the village within the time prescribed in
subsection
5-43A-4(A)3 of this article, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid
portion of the hotel tax and any interest due shall be assessed and collected
against such hotel owner or operator. (Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013)
5-43A-7: PROCEEDS OF TAX:
All funds and proceeds from the hotel tax, including, without limitation, any
interest and penalties collected pursuant to this article, shall be credited to
and deposited into the general fund of the village. (Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013)
5-43A-8: ADDITIONAL PENALTIES:
In addition to other penalties or enforcement actions that may be imposed
pursuant to other provisions of this article or other applicable statutes or
ordinances, any person found guilty, in a court of competent jurisdiction, of
violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or
resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any provision of this article, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each day any violation of any provision of this article continues to exist
shall constitute a separate punishable offense. (Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013)
5-43A-9: EFFECT ON OTHER PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to authorize any activity or use not
specifically authorized by the village zoning regulations, or to, in any other
way, amend or make any other authorization or approval under the village zoning
regulations or this code. (Ord. 2013-03, 3-21-2013)
5-43A-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this article, or the application of any portion of this
article to any specific person, is found invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such finding shall not affect the validity and
enforceability of the remaining provisions of this article, or the application
of any other portion of this article to any other specific person, which
provisions and applications shall be given full force and effect to the maximum
extent possible, notwithstanding any finding of partial invalidity. (Ord. 2013-
03, 3-21-2013)
ARTICLE B. HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
5-43B-1: Tax Imposed
5-43B-2: Administration Of Tax
5-43B-3: Rights And Conditions
5-43B-4: Reimbursement
5-43B-5: Collection
5-43B-6: Authority To Tax
5-43B-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed a two percent (2%) tax upon all persons engaged, in the
village, in the business of making sales of service, which is at the same rate
of tax imposed pursuant to article D of this chapter, of the selling price of
all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service; provided, however, this tax shall not be imposed on the
sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises
where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has
been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics. (Ord. 2013-15, 5-16-2013)
5-43B-2: ADMINISTRATION OF TAX:
The tax imposed by the village and all civil penalties that may be assessed as
an incident of this tax shall be collected and enforced by the Illinois
department of revenue. The certificate of registration that is issued by the
department of revenue to a retailer under the retailers' occupation tax act or
service occupation tax act shall permit the retailer to engage in a business
that is taxable under this article without registering separately with the
department; and further the Illinois department of revenue shall have full
power to collect all taxes and penalties due hereunder; to dispose of taxes and
penalties so collected in the manner provided by state law; and to determine
all rights to credit memoranda arising on account of the erroneous payment of
tax or penalty hereunder. (Ord. 2013-15, 5-16-2013)
5-43B-3: RIGHTS AND CONDITIONS:
In the administration of, and compliance with, the act, the department of
revenue and persons who are subject to this article shall have the same rights,
remedies, privileges, immunities, powers and duties, and be subject to the same
conditions, restrictions, limitations, penalties and definitions of terms, and
employ the same modes of procedure, as are prescribed in sections 1a-1, 2, 2a,
3 through 3-50 (in respect to all provisions therein other than the state rate
of tax), 4 (except that the reference to the state shall be to the village), 5,
7, 8 (except that the jurisdiction to which the tax shall be a debt to the
extent indicated in that section 8 shall be the village), 9 (except as to the
disposition of taxes and penalties collected, and except that the returned
merchandise credit for this municipal tax may not be taken against any state
tax), 10, 11, 12 (except the reference therein to section 2b of the retailers'
occupation tax act), 13 (except that any reference to the state shall mean the
village), the first paragraph of sections 15, 16, 17 (except that credit
memoranda issued hereunder may not be used to discharge any state tax
liability), 18, 19 and 20 of the service occupation tax act and section 3-7 of
the uniform penalty and interest act, as fully as if those provisions were set
forth herein. (Ord. 2013-15, 5-16-2013)
5-43B-4: REIMBURSEMENT:
Persons subject to this tax may reimburse themselves for their serviceman's tax
liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge,
which charge may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with state tax
which servicemen are required to collect under the service use tax act,
pursuant to such bracket schedules as the Illinois department of revenue may
prescribe. (Ord. 2013-15, 5-16-2013)
5-43B-5: COLLECTION:
All refunds, taxes and penalties shall be collected or made in accordance with
the act. (Ord. 2013-15, 5-16-2013)
5-43B-6: AUTHORITY TO TAX:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize the village to impose a
tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which under the constitution
of the United States may not be made the subject of taxation by this state.
(Ord. 2013-15, 5-16-2013)
ARTICLE C. SELF-STORAGE FACILITY ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
SECTION:
5-43C-1: Tax Imposed
5-43C-2: Definition Of Self-Storage Facility
5-43C-3: Tax To Be Borne By Tenant
5-43C-4: Self-Storage Facility To Secure Tax From Tenant
5-43C-5: Records To Be Kept
5-43C-6: Enforcement; License Suspension/Revocation
5-43C-7: Penalties; Fines
5-43C-8: Authority To Tax
5-43C-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed and shall accrue immediately and be collected a tax, as
herein provided, upon the rental or leasing of any self-storage facility
accommodations in the village of River Grove, at the rate of four percent (4%)
of the gross rental or leasing charge. This tax shall be in addition to any and
all other taxes. (Ord. 2013-13, 6-20-2013)
5-43C-2: DEFINITION OF SELF-STORAGE FACILITY:
A "self-storage facility" is a building or structure containing separately
divided storage rooms offered for lease or rent to members of the general
public for the storage of personal property, and/or property leased or rented
to members of the general public for the overnight parking or storage of
vehicles. (Ord. 201 3-13, 6-20-2013)
5-43C-3: TAX TO BE BORNE BY TENANT:
The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall be borne
by the lessee or tenant of any such self-storage facility accommodations.
Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of
leasing or operating self- storage facilities. Each operator of a self-storage
facility shall have the duty to collect the self-storage facility accommodation
tax from each lessee and to pay it over to the village along with an accounting
therefor on the return forms provided by the village. The return and the tax
shall be filed with the comptroller's office on the same filing dates as are
established for filing with the Illinois department of revenue of the
retailers' occupation tax return form ST1 or any subsequently required form. It
shall be unlawful for any owner, manager or operator of self-storage facility
accommodations to fail to cause said tax to be collected from the lessee or
tenant of said self- storage facility accommodations or to fail to file any tax
return required by this section, or cause said tax to be paid over to the
office of the comptroller under rules and regulations prescribed by the
comptroller and as otherwise provided for in this article. (Ord. 2013-13, 6-20-
2013)
5-43C-4: SELF-STORAGE FACILITY TO SECURE TAX FROM TENANT:
The tax herein levied shall be collected by the self-storage facility owner,
manager or operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price, charge
or rent to which it applies. Every lessee or tenant shall be given a bill,
invoice, receipt, or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge or rent
payable upon which the self-storage facility accommodations tax shall be
stated, charged and shown separately. The self-storage facility accommodations
tax shall be paid to the office of the comptroller as trustee thereof for and
on behalf of the village. (Ord. 2013-13, 6-20-2013)
5-43C-5: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
Every owner, manager, or operator of a self-storage facility in the village
shall register with the village on forms provided by the office of the
comptroller. Each such owner, manager, or operator shall have the duty to
maintain complete and accurate books, records and accounts showing the gross
receipts for the lease of any self-storage facility accommodations within the
village of River Grove and showing the prices, rents or charges made or
charged, and occupancies taxable under this self-storage facility
accommodations tax. The comptroller, or his/her designee, shall at all
reasonable times have full access to said books and records. (Ord. 2013-13, 6-
20-2013)
5-43C-6: ENFORCEMENT; LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION:
   (A)   Any self-storage facility that fails to timely pay all taxes due
pursuant to this article shall also pay a penalty equal to five percent (5%) of
any such unpaid tax and shall pay interest on any past due balance at the rate
of one percent (1%) per month. Any self-storage facility that fails to timely
file a tax return required pursuant to this article shall also pay a penalty
equal to five percent (5%) of any tax due during the period covered by the
return.
   (B)   The failure to comply with any obligation imposed by this article
shall also be grounds for the suspension or revocation of any license or permit
issued to the self-storage facility. (Ord. 2013-13, 6-20-2013)
5-43C-7: PENALTIES; FINES:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this article may, in
addition to any tax or penalty due, be assessed a fine up to seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues to exist shall be a
separate offense. Citations for violations of this article shall be adjudicated
by the village's administrative adjudication hearing officer, or at the choice
of the village of River Grove, by any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
2013-13, 6-20-2013)
5-43C-8: AUTHORITY TO TAX:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize the village to impose a
tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which under the constitution
of the United States may not be made the subject of taxation by this state.
(Ord. 2013-13, 6-20-2013)
ARTICLE D. HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
5-43D-1: Tax Imposed
5-43D-2: Administration Of Tax
5-43D-3: Rights And Conditions
5-43D-4: Reimbursement
5-43D-5: Collection
5-43D-6: Authority To Tax
5-43D-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed a two percent (2%) tax upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible
personal property titled or registered with an agency of the state's
government, at retail in the village on the gross receipts from these sales
made in the course of such business; provided, however, this tax shall not be
imposed on the sales of food for human consumption that is to be consumed off
the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and
food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics. (Ord. 2013-14, 5-16-2013)
5-43D-2: ADMINISTRATION OF TAX:
The tax imposed by the village and all civil penalties that may be assessed as
an incident of this tax shall be collected and enforced by the Illinois
department of revenue. The certificate of registration that is issued by the
department of revenue to a retailer under the retailers' occupation tax act
shall permit the retailer to engage in a business that is taxable under this
article without registering separately with the department; and further the
Illinois department of revenue shall have full power to collect all taxes and
penalties due hereunder; to dispose of taxes and penalties so collected in the
manner provided by state law; and to determine all rights to credit memoranda
arising on account of the erroneous payment of tax or penalty hereunder. (Ord.
2013-14, 5-16-2013)
5-43D-3: RIGHTS AND CONDITIONS:
In the administration of, and compliance with, the act, the department of
revenue and persons who are subject to this article shall have the same rights,
remedies, privileges, immunities, powers and duties, and be subject to the same
conditions, restrictions, limitations, penalties and definitions of terms, and
employ the same modes of procedure, as are prescribed in sections 1, 1a, 1d,
1e, 1f, 1i, 1j, 1k, 1m, 1n, 2 through 2-65 (in respect to all provisions
therein other than the state rate of tax), 2c, 3 (except as to the disposition
of taxes and penalties collected), 4, 5, 5a, 5b, 5c, 5d, 5e, 5f, 5g, 5h, 5i,
5j, 5k, 5l, 6, 6a, 6b, 6c, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the retailers'
occupation tax act and section 3-7 of the uniform penalty and interest act, as
fully as if those provisions were set forth herein. (Ord. 2013-14, 5-16-2013)
5-43D-4: REIMBURSEMENT:
Persons subject to this tax may reimburse themselves for their seller's tax
liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge,
which charge may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with state tax
which sellers are required to collect under the use tax act, pursuant to such
bracket schedules as the Illinois department of revenue may prescribe. (Ord.
2013-14, 5-16-2013)
5-43D-5: COLLECTION:
All refunds, taxes and penalties shall be collected or made in accordance with
the act. (Ord. 2013-14, 5-16-2013)
5-43D-6: AUTHORITY TO TAX:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize the village to impose a
tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which under the constitution
of the United States may not be made the subject of taxation by this state.
(Ord. 2013-14, 5-16-2013)
ARTICLE E. AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
5-43E-1: Applicability Of Provisions
5-43E-2: Definitions
5-43E-3: Amusement Tax Imposed
5-43E-3.1: Streaming Tax
5-43E-3.2: Tax Additional
5-43E-3.3: Registration
5-43E-3.4: Collection, Payment, And Accounting
5-43E-3.5: Rules And Regulations; Authorized
5-43E-3.6: Application Of Village Code
5-43E-3.7: Violations; Penalties
5-43E-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all amusements as hereinafter defined, whether specifically licensed or
regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances, or not.
(Ord. 2021-29, 8-19-2021)
5-43E-2: DEFINITIONS:
               1.   Any exhibition, performance or show for entertainment purposes, including,
            but not limited to, any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance,
            motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo,
            athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment,
            including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing,
            swimming, racing, or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
            softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling, billiard
AMUSEMENT:  and pool games.
            ---------------------------
            Folio Views
            ---------------------------
            You cannot insert a record break inside a table.
            ---------------------------
            OK
            ---------------------------
CABLE       Cable Service shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 5/21-201(e) of
SERVICE:    the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/21-201(e)).
            The gross amount of consideration paid for the privilege to enter, to witness, to
            view or to participate in an amusement, including amounts paid for the right to
            access an amusement, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise,
            including cash, credits, property and services, determined without any deduction
CHARGES     for costs or expenses whatsoever. The term "charges paid" includes any and all
PAID:       charges that the patron pays incidental to obtaining the privilege to enter, to
            witness, to view or to participate in an amusement, including but not limited to
            any and all related markups, service fees, convenience fees, facilitation fees,
            cancellation fees and other such charges, regardless of terminology. The term
            "charges paid" does not include charges that are added on account of the tax
            imposed by this chapter or on account of any other tax imposed on the charge.
HOLDER:     Holder shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 5/21- 201(k) of the
            Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/21-201(k)).
INCUMBENT   Incumbent Cable Operator shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 5/21-
CABLE       201(m) of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/21-201(m)).
OPERATOR:
               1.   Any person who sells or resells a ticket or other license to an amusement
            for consideration or who, directly or indirectly, receives or collects the charges
            paid for the sale or resale of a ticket or other license to the amusement. The
            term includes, but is not limited to, persons engaged in the business of selling
            or reselling tickets or other licenses to amusements, whether online, in person or
            otherwise;
               2.   With respect to the owner of an amusement, any person which has an
            ownership or leasehold interest in such amusement or any person who has a
OWNER OR    proprietary interest in the amusement so as to entitle such person to all or a
OPERATOR:   portion of the proceeds, after payment of reasonable expenses, from the operation,
           conduct or presentation of such amusement, excluding proceeds from non-amusement
            services and from sales of tangible personal property;
               3.   Any person or entity operating a community antenna television system or
            wireless cable television system, or any person or entity receiving consideration
            from the patron for furnishing, transmitting, or otherwise providing access to
            paid television programming;
               4.   A person or entity operating a system, or any person or entity receiving
            consideration from the patron, for providing access to or electronically
            delivering video streaming, audio streaming or online games to patrons.
PAID        Programming that can be viewed on a television or other screen, and is transmitted
TELEVISION: by cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar means to
            members of the public for consideration.
            Any person who acquires the privilege to enter, to witness, to view or to
PATRON:     participate in an amusement; any person who has a primary place of use within the
            Village who purchases the right to access an electronic amusement.
            Any natural individual that participates in an amusement, including a firm,
            organization, society, foundation, institution, partnership, association, joint
PERSON:     stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, public or private
            corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other representative appointed by
            order of any court, or any other entity recognized by law.
VIDEO       Shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 5/21- 201(v) of the Public
SERVICE:    Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/21-201(v)). (Ord. 2024-19, 9-16-2024)
 
5-43E-3: AMUSEMENT TAX IMPOSED:
5-43E-3.1: STREAMING TAX:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, an amusement tax is
imposed upon any person who participates in the privilege to witness, view or
participate in an amusement. This includes not only charges paid for the
privilege to witness, view or participate in amusements in person but also
charges paid for the privilege to witness, view or participate in electronic
amusements including, but not limited to, shows, movies, videos, music or
online games, that take place within the Village, or are delivered to a patron
with a primary place of use within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
Village. This tax is not imposed on transactions where the patron pays for the
rights of the permanent use of an electronic amusement.
   (B)   The rate of the tax shall be equal to five percent (5%) of the charges
paid for such streaming service.
   (C)   In the case of amusements that are delivered electronically, as in the
case of video streaming, audio streaming and online games, the rules set forth
in the Illinois Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act, 35 ILCS 638,
as amended, may be utilized for the purpose of determining which customers and
charges are presumed to be subject to the tax imposed by this Chapter. If those
rules indicate that the tax applies, it shall be presumed that the tax does
apply unless the contrary is established by books, records or other documentary
evidence. (Ord. 2024-19, 9-16-2024)
5-43E-3.2: TAX ADDITIONAL:
The tax imposed in this Chapter is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision
thereof. (Ord. 2024-19, 9-16-2024)
5-43E-3.3: REGISTRATION:
   (A)   Every Owner or Operator providing services to customers subject to
this tax within the Village of River Grove shall apply for registration as a
tax collector with the Village no later than thirty (30) days after commencing
such business or thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Ordinance
imposing the Streaming Tax, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   The application shall be submitted to the Village on the forms
provided by the Village and contain such information as reasonably required by
the Village to impose, collect and audit all amounts related to the Streaming
Tax. (Ord. 2024-19, 9-16-2024)
5-43E-3.4: COLLECTION, PAYMENT, AND ACCOUNTING:
   (A)   It shall be the joint and several duty of every Owner or Operator of
an amusement under this Chapter to secure from each patron or buyer the tax
imposed by this Chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this Chapter, it shall be presumed that the amount of
the Streaming Tax imposed on each Person, unless the taxpayer or tax collector
provides otherwise with books, records, or other documentary evidence, has been
collected from the Person by the Owner or Operator.
   (C)   Streaming Tax payments, accompanied by tax returns prescribed by the
Village, shall be remitted to the Village not later than the 15th day of the
month following the month in which payment for the Streaming Tax was made.
   (D)   Every Owner or Operator who is required to collect the Streaming Tax
imposed by this Chapter shall be considered a tax collector for the Village.
All Streaming Tax collected shall be held by such tax collector as trustee for
and on behalf of the Village. The failure of the tax collector to collect the
tax shall not excuse or release the patron from the obligation to pay the tax.
   (E)   The ultimate incidence of the Streaming Tax shall remain on the Person
and shall never be shifted to the Owner or Operator.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the Village, no Person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the Streaming Tax imposed by this
Chapter unless the Person files a claim for refund or credit within one (1)
year after the date on which the Streaming Tax was paid or remitted to the
Village.
   (G)   The Owner or Operator shall be subject to audit, inspection and record
keeping provisions of this Code.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any Owner or Operator and/or Person to
prevent, hinder, or interfere with the Village's Officials, employees, and/or
agents designated to discharge their respective duties in the performance and
enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter.
   (I)   It is the duty of every Owner or Operator to keep accurate and
complete books and records to which the Village's officials, employees, and/or
agents will at all times have full access.
   (J)   In the event that the Village adopts or repeals an amusement tax,
changes the tax rate, or extends this tax to any video streaming, audio
streaming or remotely-accessed online games made available or delivered
electronically to Patrons on a rental or subscription basis, or the Village's
jurisdictional boundaries change, it shall publish the resolution or ordinance
or post a notification, which may include on its website, ninety (90) days
prior to the effective date of such adoption or repeal of, or amendment to,
this tax. (Ord. 2024-19, 9-16-2024)
5-43E-3.5: RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORIZED:
The Village is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce any additional rules
and regulations pertaining to the interpretation, collection, administration
and enforcement of this Chapter. (Ord. 2024-19, 9-16-2024)
5-43E-3.6: APPLICATION OF VILLAGE CODE:
Any citation under this Chapter may be in addition to any other citations
issued by the Village under any and all applicable sections of the Village
Code. (Ord. 2024- 19, 9-16-2024)
5-43E-3.7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
It shall be a violation of this Chapter for an Owner or Operator to fail to
file a report within the time prescribed in this Chapter.
   (A)   Report Required: An Owner or Operator who falsely reports or fails to
report the amount of Streaming Tax due as required by this Chapter shall be in
violation of this Chapter and is subject to the penalties in this Section. All
payments not remitted when due shall be paid together with a penalty assessment
on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5% per month.
   (B)   Fine Imposed: Any Owner or Operator violating the provisions of this
Chapter shall be subject to a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
the first offense, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second offense and
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third offense.
   (C)   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (D)   It shall be deemed a violation of this Chapter for any Person to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Village. (Ord. 2024-
19, 9-16-2024)
ARTICLE F. MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX; MUNICIPAL GROCERY
SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
5-43F-1: Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax Imposed
5-43F-2: Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
5-43F-3: Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer Both Taxes
5-43F-1: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
Ordinance is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24). (Ord. 2025-19, 7-21-2025)
5-43F-2: MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in Section 2, above. The imposition
of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-
11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24). (Ord. 2025-19, 7-21-
2025)
5-43F-3: ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES:
The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance. (Ord. 2025-
19, 7-21-2025)
CHAPTER 44
EARNED SICK LEAVE AND MINIMUM WAGE
SECTION:
5-44-1: Conflict With Cook County Earned Sick Leave Ordinance - Definitions
5-44-2: Earned Sick Leave
5-44-3: Conflict With Cook County Minimum Wage Ordinance - Definitions
5-44-4: Minimum Wage
5-44-5: Conflict With Cook County Earned Paid Leave Ordinance - Definitions
5-44-6: Earned Paid Leave
5-44-1: CONFLICT WITH COOK COUNTY EARNED SICK LEAVE ORDINANCE - DEFINITIONS:
EMPLOYEE: Means an individual permitted to work by an employer regardless of
the number of persons the employer employs. For purposes of this chapter,
"employee" does not mean an employee of the Village of River Grove.
EMPLOYER: Means any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, business trust, or any person or group of persons that
gainfully employs at least one employee. To qualify as an employer, such
individual, group or entity must maintain a business facility within the
geographical boundaries of the Village and conduct business within the Village.
For purposes of this chapter, the term "employer" shall not include: a) the
government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by the government
of the United States; b) an Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an
Indian tribe; c) the government of the State of Illinois or any agency or
department thereof; or d) units of local government, including the Village of
River Grove.
VILLAGE: Means the Village of River Grove, Cook County, Illinois. (Ord. 2017-
08, 5-4-2017)
5-44-2: EARNED SICK LEAVE:
   (A)   Employers located or conducting business within the Municipal
boundaries of the Village of River Grove shall not be required to offer or
provide earned sick leave to employees who work at least eighty (80) hours
within any one hundred twenty (120) day period. No additional obligations with
regard to earned sick leave adopted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
shall apply to employers located or conducting business within the Village of
River Grove.
   (B)   All employers located or conducting business within the Village shall
comply with all applicable Federal and/or State laws and regulations, as such
laws and regulations may exist from time to time, with regard to the payment of
paid sick leave.
   (C)   Except for incentive agreements directly between employers and the
County of Cook, including, but not limited to, 6b Tax Classification status
incentives, no additional obligations with regard to paid sick leave,
including, without limitation, any additional obligations by ordinance adopted
by the County of Cook Board of Commissioners, shall apply to employers located
or conducting business within the Village. (Ord. 2017-08, 5-4-2017)
5-44-3: CONFLICT WITH COOK COUNTY MINIMUM WAGE ORDINANCE - DEFINITIONS:
EMPLOYEE: Shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in section 3(d) of the
Illinois Minimum Wage Law 1 . For purposes of this chapter, "employee" shall
not include an employee of the Village of River Grove.
EMPLOYER: Means any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, business trust, or any person or group of persons that
gainfully employs at least one employee. To qualify as an employer, such
individual, group, or entity must maintain a business facility within the
Municipal boundaries of the Village or conduct business within the Village. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "employer" shall not include: a) the
government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by the government
of the United States; b) an Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an
Indian tribe; c) the government of the State of Illinois or any agency or
department thereof; or d) units of local government, including the Village of
River Grove. (Ord. 2017-08, 5-4-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 105/3(d).
5-44-4: MINIMUM WAGE:
   (A)   Employers located in or conducting business within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the Village of River Grove shall comply with all applicable
Federal and State of Illinois laws and regulations with respect to the payment
of minimum hourly wages for non-tipped employees, including, but not limited to
wages established by the Fair Labor Standards Division of the Illinois
Department of Labor.
   (B)   No employer located in or conducting business within the Village of
River Grove shall be required to pay employees a minimum hourly wage in excess
of those wages established by Federal and/or State of Illinois laws, including,
but not limited to, the minimum wage rate established by the Fair Labor
Standards Division of the Illinois Department of Labor.
   (C)   Except for incentive agreements directly between employers and the
County of Cook, including, but not limited to, 6b Tax Classification status
incentives, no additional obligations with regard to minimum hourly wages,
including, without limitation, any additional obligations by ordinance adopted
by the County of Cook Board of Commissioners, shall apply to employers located
in or conducting business within the Village, except those required by Federal
and/or State laws and regulations, as such laws and regulations may exist from
time to time. (Ord. 2017-08, 5-4-2017)
5-44-5: CONFLICT WITH COOK COUNTY EARNED PAID LEAVE ORDINANCE - DEFINITIONS:
EMPLOYEE: An individual permitted to work by an employer regardless of the
number of persons the employer employs. For purposes of this article,
“employee” does not mean an employee of the Village of River Grove.
EMPLOYER: Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, business trust, or any person or group of persons that
gainfully employs at least one employee. To qualify as an employer, such
individual, group or entity must maintain a business facility within the
geographical boundaries of the Village and conduct business within the Village.
For purposes of this Chapter, the term “employer” shall not include: a) the
government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by the government
of the United States; b) an Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an
Indian tribe; or c) the government of the state of Illinois or any agency or
department thereof.
VILLAGE: Village of River Grove, Cook County, Illinois. (Ord. 2025-02, 2-3-
2025)
5-44-6: EARNED PAID LEAVE:
   A.   Employers located or conducting business within the territorial
boundaries of the Village of River Grove shall not be required to offer or
provide earned paid leave pursuant to Cook County Ordinance No. 24-0583 (“Cook
County Paid Leave Ordinance”). No additional obligations with regard to earned
paid leave adopted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall apply to
employers located or conducting business within the Village of River Grove.
   B.   Except for incentive agreements directly between employers and the
County of Cook, including, but not limited to, 6b tax classification status
incentives, no additional obligations with regard to earned paid leave,
including, without limitation, any additional obligations by ordinance adopted
by the County of Cook Board of Commissioners, shall apply to employers located
or conducting business within the Village. (Ord. 2025-02, 2-3-2025)
CHAPTER 45
BUSINESS RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-45-1: Purpose
5-45-2: Definitions
5-45-3: Rules And Regulations
5-45-1: PURPOSE:
Any individual or entity being issued by license pursuant to Chapter 1 or
Chapter 24 to operate a specific business or sell or otherwise dispense retail
liquor within the municipal boundaries of the Village shall comply with the
following rules and regulations. (Ord. 2021-12, 4-15-2021)
5-45-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
 
          Means (1) any public way located immediately next to a licensed
          establishment, if such public way is used by the licensee or by patrons,
          agents or employees of the licensee as a means of entry to or egress from
          the licensed establishment; or (2) any private property that is located
ADJACENT  immediately next to the licensed establishment, if such private property is
PROPERTY: owned, leased or rented by the licensee; or (3) any private property
          separated from the licensed establishment by a public way and located
          immediately next to such public way, if such private property is owned,
          leased or rented by the licensee. For purposes of this definition, the term
          "public way" means any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other public
          thoroughfare.
          Means a required or mandatory safety plan which addresses the quality of
          life for residents in the surrounding neighborhood, provides patrons with a
          safe environment when exiting and entering the establishment, and reduces
          the need for police resources. Additionally, an exterior safety plan must
          prevent the following conditions: excessive noise caused by patrons leaving
          or entering the premises; loitering or littering by such patrons; fighting
          or other criminal activity by such patrons; and the congregation of
          departing patrons in such numbers so as to unreasonably impede vehicular or
          pedestrian traffic flow. The plan shall provide evidence satisfactory to
          the local liquor commissioner and chief of police for the following: the
EXTERIOR  installation of adequate exterior lighting in accordance with rules
SAFETY    prescribed herein; the installation and maintenance of surveillance cameras
PLAN:     installed at each building exit utilized by the general public, employed
          and lighted in such a manner to identify persons entering or exiting the
          building between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and close; and the
          employment of adequately trained security personnel. Recordings from the
          surveillance camera shall be maintained for not less than thirty (30) days
          and, upon request, shall be made available to members of the Police
          Department. The failure to submit an adequate exterior safety plan as
          required by this subsection shall be grounds to deny an application for a
          liquor license or renewal thereof. The failure to adequately implement,
          maintain or execute an adequate exterior safety plan shall be grounds for
          suspension or revocation of the liquor license.
          Means any person holding a Business License under Chapter 1 of Title 5 and/
          or a Retail Liquor License under Chapter 24 of Title 5, and includes the
LICENSEE: employees and agents of such licensee and any person having control over
          the day-to-day management of the licensed establishment. (Ord. 2021-12, 4-
          15-2021)
 
5-45-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   An exterior safety plan required for Liquor License holders under
Section
5-24-27 shall apply to the licensed establishment and adjacent property.
   (B)   The exterior safety plan shall be implemented by the licensee between
the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and until one (1) hour after the licensed
establishment is closed for business.
   (C)   The licensee shall:
      1.   Promptly notify the police department via the 9-1-1 emergency
telephone system of any illegal activity reported to or observed by the
licensee or the on-site management team, on or within sight of the licensed
premises or adjacent property; and
      2.   Otherwise comply with the requirements of Section
5-24-20; and otherwise enter into a log book all incidents of illegal activity
reported or required to be reported to the police department under Section
5-24-20, including the date and time the incident was reported to the police
department; a brief summary of the incident; the name of the person reporting
the incident; and, if a cellular phone was used to report the incident, the
telephone number of the cellular telephone.
   (D)   Between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and until one (1) hour
after the licensed establishment is closed for business, the licensee shall
have the following duties:
      1.   Maintain an orderly line of persons wishing to enter the
establishment; and
      2.   Direct and instruct persons waiting in line to enter the
establishment, exiting the establishment or otherwise located outside the
establishment to refrain from making loud or unnecessary noise and from
otherwise disturbing the peace, or quiet and good order of the community; and
      3.   Prevent persons from congregating in front of the licensed
establishment or on adjacent property; provided, however, that this item (3)
shall not apply to persons waiting in an orderly line to enter the
establishment; and
      4.   Pick up garbage in front of and curbside of the licensed
establishment and adjacent property; and
      5.   Notify the police department of any illegal activity reported to or
observed by such person(s) on or within sight of the licensed premises or
adjacent property.
   (E)   If an employee or agent of the licensee is charged by the licensee
with responsibility for carrying out any of the duties set forth in subsection
(E) or for implementing or maintaining any part of the licensee's exterior
safety plan, and the person charged with such responsibility fails to perform
such responsibility, the licensee shall be deemed to have failed to adequately
implement or maintain an adequate exterior safety plan within the meaning of
Section
5-24-27.
   (F)   For purposes of "adequate exterior lighting" means lighting that: (1)
is sufficient to enable the surveillance cameras defined under subsection (A)
Exterior Safety Plan to produce easily discernible images within the meaning of
item (2) of subsection (H); and (2) illuminates the front and sides of each
entry and exit way of the premises as used by patrons of the licensee.
   (G)   The surveillance cameras defined and required under subsection (A),
Exterior Safety Plan, shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   The cameras shall be video surveillance cameras of sufficient
number, type, placement and location to view and record all activity in the
front and on all sides of each entry and exit way used by patrons of the
licensee for a distance of fifteen feet (15'), as measured from the point of
entry or exit; and
      2.   The cameras shall be sufficiently light sensitive and provide
sufficient image resolution (supported by additional lighting, if necessary) to
produce easily discernible images; and
      3.   The images recorded by each camera shall be capable of being viewed
through use of appropriate technology, including but not limited to, compact
disc or digital video disc; and
      4.   The images recorded by each camera shall be capable of being
transferred to a portable form of media, including but not limited to, compact
disc or digital video disc; and
      5.   The cameras shall not have an audio capability; and
      6.   The cameras shall be maintained in good working condition; and
      7.   Recordings from the surveillance camera shall be maintained for not
less than thirty (30) days and, upon request, shall be made available to
members of the Police Department. At all times between the hours of open until
close, the licensee shall have on staff or otherwise available without undue
delay a person capable of operating the required cameras to produce any
requested recorded image(s) and to transfer those images to a portable form of
media, including but not limited to, a USB drive, portable hard drive, a
compact disc or digital video disc; and
      8.   All recordings made by the required cameras shall be stored by the
licensee on the licensed premises in a locked receptacle located in a
controlled access area accessible only to authorized personnel or shall
otherwise be secured in a manner accessible only to authorized personnel. The
licensee shall enter into a log book all instances of requests for, access to,
and dissemination and use of any recorded material made or captured by the
required video surveillance cameras, including the date and time such entry was
made, the reason why such entry was made, and the name of the person making the
request or accessing, disseminating or using the recorded material. The
licensee shall make copies of the log book available, upon request, for
inspection by the local liquor commissioner, an authorized officer from the
police department or other authorized government personnel; and
      9.   The licensee shall post signage, in a conspicuous manner and at
appropriate locations, notifying the public that video surveillance cameras are
in operation.
   (H)   For purposes of these rules and regulations, and applicable
ordinances, the term "adequately trained security personnel" means security
personnel meeting all of the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Each person providing security at the licensed establishment has
successfully completed the Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and
Training (BASSET) program or Training for Intervention Procedures for Servers
of Alcohol (TIPS) program approved by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission,
and such person has provided proof of compliance with this requirement to the
licensee; and
      2.   Each person providing security at the licensed establishment has
been trained by the licensee to report all incidents of illegal activity at the
licensed establishment or on adjacent property to the police in conformity with
the requirements previously stated, and such person has certified in writing
that such training was received; and
      3.   Each person providing security at the licensed establishment has
been trained by the licensee to record all incidents of illegal activity at the
licensed establishment or on adjacent property in a log book in conformity with
the requirements of subsection D, and such person has certified in writing that
such training was received; and
      4.   Each person providing security at the licensed establishment has
been trained by the licensee (a) not to exceed the establishment's legal
maximum occupancy; and (b) in the fundamentals of the licensed establishment's
fire safety, emergency preparedness and emergency evacuation procedures, and
such person has certified in writing that such training was received. Such
documents shall be made available, upon request, for inspection by the police
department, local liquor control commissioner or other authorized government
personnel.
   (I)   The exterior safety plan required under subsection A and approved by
the local liquor commissioner shall become a condition of the license, and the
licensee, all principal officers of the licensee and any person with a five
percent (5%) or more ownership interest in the licensee shall be bound by its
terms. It shall be posted in the licensed establishment, in a conspicuous
location, directly next to the business and/or liquor license certificate. The
failure to post or adhere to an approved exterior safety plan shall constitute
legal grounds to initiate license disciplinary proceedings against such
licensee, including but not limited to, license suspension or revocation.
   (J)   If there is a change of ownership or of officers of the licensee, the
exterior safety plan required under subsection (A) and approved by the local
liquor control commissioner shall be enforceable against any new owner(s) or
officer(s); provided, however, that if application is made for a liquor
license, the applicant for such license shall be required to submit an exterior
safety plan meeting the requirements of subsection previously describe in these
Rules and Regulations. (Ord. 2021-12, 4-15-2021)
CHAPTER 46
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5-46-1: Cannabis Business Establishments Defined
5-46-2: Application For License; Special Requirements
5-46-3: Sanitary Requirements
5-46-4: License Fee
5-46-1: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following terms shall be defined as
follows:
ADULT USE CANNABIS DISPENSARY: Any facility operated by a person, business or
entity who is registered by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire adult use cannabis from cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of dispensing cannabis pursuant to and in
accordance with the State of Illinois' Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410
ILLS 705/1-1 et seq.) and administrative rules promulgated thereunder.
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: Construed to mean any person, firm,
corporation or entity operating, maintaining or conducting business as a:
   A.   Cannabis craft grower;
   B.   Cannabis cultivation center;
   C.   Adult use cannabis dispensary;
   D.   Medical cannabis dispensary;
   E.   Cannabis infuser; or
   F.   Cannabis processor licensed by the State of Illinois' Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.) or the State of Illinois'
Compassionate' Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.) and
administrative rules promulgated thereunder.
   No person or entity shall manage, conduct, operate or carry on a cannabis
business establishment without first having obtained a license therefor.
CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: Any facility operated by any person, organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to perform
necessary activities to cultivate dry cure and package cannabis and perform
other necessary activities to make cannabis available for sale at a registered
cannabis dispensary or for use at a cannabis processing facility.
CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: Any facility operated by any person, organization
or business that is licensed by-the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport or perform other necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to cannabis business establishments.
CANNABIS INFUSER: Include any facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to directly
incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to
produce a cannabis-infused product for sale at a registered cannabis
dispensary.
CANNABIS PROCESSOR: Include any facility operated by any person, organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce cannabis
concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product
formulation to produce a cannabis product for sale at a registered cannabis
dispensary.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY: Any facility operated by a person or entity who is
registered by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation
to acquire medical cannabis from cannabis cultivation centers, or, subject to
applicable law, any cannabis business establishment, for the purpose of
dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia or related supplies and educational material
to registered qualifying patients. For purposes of this definition, "Qualified
patient" has the meaning ascribed to that term in the State of Illinois'
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.).
ON-SITE CONSUMPTION: The consumption of adult use or medical cannabis in or at
a business establishment licensed by the Village to allow on-site consumption
of such cannabis.
(Ord. 2024-12, 3-18-2024)
5-46-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
Any person or entity desiring to operate, maintain or conduct a cannabis
business establishment shall first make written application for a license to do
so which shall conform to the general requirements of this Chapter relating to
applications for licenses, and shall set forth the location at which it is
desired to conduct such business and a description of the place or premises
where such business is to be conducted.
(Ord. 2024-12, 3-18-2024)
5-46-3: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Every establishment, place or premises where a cannabis business establishment
is conducted, managed or carried on shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition satisfactory to the Commissioner of Health. No decayed, decaying,
unwholesome, contaminated or diseased flowers, plants or other things shall be
allowed to remain in or about said establishment, and the licensee shall
install proper receptacles for the disposition of such decayed, decaying,
unwholesome, contaminated or diseased flowers, plants or other things that may
be in or about said premises, or establishment, and said place, premises or
establishment shall be at all times kept in a clean, sanitary condition
satisfactory to the Commissioner of Health.
(Ord. 2024-12, 3-18-2024)
5-46-4: LICENSE FEE:
Except for a cannabis business establishment operating exclusively as a Medical
Cannabis Dispensary pursuant to the State of Illinois' Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1, et seq., the annual license fee
for each cannabis business establishment shall be two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) per location.
(Ord. 2024-12, 3-18-2024)
TITLE VI
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Purpose And Intent
6-1-3: Applicability
6-1-4: Transition Rules
6-1-5: Severability
6-1-6: Effective Date
6-1-7: Repealer
6-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the VILLAGE OF RIVER GROVE
ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote public health, safety, convenience, comfort, and general
welfare.
   (B)   To secure adequate light, air, open space, and safety from fire and
other dangers.
   (C)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
municipality.
   (D)   To lessen or avoid congestion in public streets.
   (E)   To ensure and facilitate the preservation of sites, areas, and
structures of historical, architectural and aesthetic importance.
   (F)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected.
   (G)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on, or
along, any street, trafficway, drive, parkway, or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin.
   (H)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas, and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and surrounding such
buildings.
   (I)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries, and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential, and other uses.
   (J)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area, and of such different classes (according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area
of open spaces, or other classification) as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purposes of this title.
   (K)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform.
   (L)   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts.
   (M)   To define the powers and duties of administrative officers and bodies,
as provided hereinafter.
   (N)   To prescribe penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
title, or any amendments thereto. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Territorial Application: This title shall apply to all land, uses,
buildings, and structures within the village of River Grove, including those
owned by other municipal corporations and government bodies. River Grove's
planning jurisdiction includes property within its corporate limits and
unincorporated areas located within one and one-half (11/2) miles of village
limits.
   (B)   General Application: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion and protection of the public health, safety, convenience, comfort,
and general welfare, and shall be construed to achieve the purposes for which
this title was adopted.
   (C)   General Prohibition: Except as otherwise provided by this title, no
building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied, and no building or
structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed,
moved, enlarged or structurally altered unless it conforms with the provisions
of this title governing the zoning district in which it is located.
   (D)   Private Agreements: This title is not intended to nullify any private
agreement, provided where there is a conflict between such private agreement
and this title, and, where this title is more restrictive, this title shall
control.
   (E)   Other Laws And Regulations: Unless otherwise specifically provided,
this title shall control over less restrictive statutes, ordinances or
regulations, and more restrictive statutes, ordinances or regulations will
control over the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-1-4: TRANSITION RULES:
In determining the applicability of this title, with respect to the previously
applicable zoning regulations, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Existing Unlawful Uses And Structures: A structure or use not lawfully
existing at the time of the adoption hereof is hereby deemed lawful as of the
effective date hereof, provided it conforms with all of requirements of this
title. However, if such structure or use does not conform with all of the
requirements of this title, such structure or use remains unlawful hereunder.
   (B)   Existing Permitted Uses: When a lot is used for a purpose that was
classified as a permitted use prior to the effective date hereof, and such use
is classified as a special use by this title, such use is hereby deemed a
lawful special use for the purpose of this title. Any addition, enlargement or
expansion of such use shall conform to the requirements for special uses within
this title.
   (C)   Principal Uses Rendered Nonconforming: When a lot is used for a
purpose that was a lawful use before the effective date hereof, and this title,
or any amendment thereto, no longer classifies such use as either a permitted
or special use in the zoning district in which it is located, such use is
hereby deemed a legal nonconforming use and shall be controlled by the
provisions of chapter 15, "Nonconformities", of this title.
   (D)   Principal Buildings, Structures, And Lots Rendered Nonconforming:
Where any lawful building, structure, or lot existing on the effective date
hereof does not meet all standards set forth in this title, or any amendment
thereto, such building, structure, or lot is hereby deemed nonconforming and
shall be controlled by the provisions of chapter 15, "Nonconformities", of this
title.
   (E)   Accessory Uses, Structures, And Buildings Rendered Nonconforming: When
any lawful accessory building, structure, or use existing on the effective date
hereof does not meet all standards set forth in this title, or any amendment
thereto, such building, structure, or use, including signs, is hereby deemed
nonconforming and shall be controlled by the provisions of chapter 15,
"Nonconformities", of this title.
   (F)   Previously Issued Building Permits: When a building permit for a
building or structure has been lawfully issued prior to the effective date
hereof, and when construction has begun within six (6) months of the issuance
of such permit and is being diligently pursued to completion, the building or
structure may be completed in accordance with the plans on the basis of which
the building permit was issued and may, upon completion, be occupied under an
occupancy permit for the use originally intended.
   (G)   Previously Granted Special Uses And Variations: All special uses and
variations granted prior to the effective date hereof shall remain in full
force and effect. The recipient of the special use or variation may proceed to
develop the property in accordance with the approved plans and any conditions
attached thereto. However, if the recipient has failed to act on the special
use or variation before approval expires, the provisions of this title shall
govern.
   (H)   Pending Applications: Where an application is pending on the effective
date hereof, the provisions of this title shall govern such application. (Ord.
2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any court of competent jurisdiction adjudges any provisions of this title to
be invalid, such judgment shall not affect the validity and continued
enforcement of any other provisions of this title. If any court of competent
jurisdiction adjudges the application of any provision of this title to any
property, structure, building or use to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect the application of that provision to any other property, building,
structure, or use not specifically included in that judgment. (Ord. 2006-37,
12-21-2006)
6-1-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of this title is the date of adoption, this date December
21, 2006. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-1-7: REPEALER:
After the effective date hereof, all prior provisions of the zoning ordinance
of the village of River Grove, as amended from time to time, are expressly
repealed in their entirety. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES AND OFFICIALS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Village Board Of Trustees
6-2-2: Plan Commission/Zoning Board Of Appeals
6-2-3: Building Commissioner
6-2-4: Site Plan Review Committee
6-2-5: Planning And Zoning Administrator
6-2-6: Village Clerk
6-2-1: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
In addition to those powers and duties set forth in this code, the village
board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To make final decisions on applications for text and map amendments
(section
6-4-1 of this title).
   (B)   To make final decisions on applications for variations (section
6-4-2 of this title).
   (C)   To make final decisions on special use applications (section
6-4-3 of this title).
   (D)   To make final decisions on planned unit development applications
(section
6-4-4 of this title).
   (E)   To hear appeals on site plan review committee decisions (section
6-4-5 of this title). (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-2-2: PLAN COMMISSION/ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
In addition to those powers and duties set forth in this code, the plan
commission/zoning board of appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To hear and make recommendations to the village board on applications
for text or map amendments (section
6-4-1 of this title).
   (B)   To hear and make recommendations to the village board on applications
for variations (section
6-4-2 of this title).
   (C)   To hear and make recommendations to the village board on applications
for special uses (section
6-4-3 of this title).
   (D)   To hear and make recommendations to the village board on planned unit
development applications (section
6-4-4 of this title).
   (E)   To hear and make final decisions on appeals of zoning decisions
(section
6-4-10 of this title) made by the planning and zoning administrator and
building commissioner.
   (F)   To assist in the development, review and amendment of the
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance of the village, as requested by the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-2-3: BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
In addition to those powers and duties set forth in this code, the building
commissioner, or his/her designee, shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To receive, review, and issue building permits (section
6-4-6 of this title).
   (B)   To receive, review, and issue occupancy permits (section
6-4-7 of this title).
   (C)   To receive, review requests for, and issue sign permits (section
6-4-9 of this title).
   (D)   To conduct inspections of buildings and structures to determine
compliance with the terms of this title and other applicable ordinances.
   (E)   To enforce the provisions of this title and to issue notices of
violations. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-2-4: SITE PLAN REVIEW COMMITTEE:
The site plan review committee shall be comprised of the director of economic
development, the building commissioner, and the village engineer. All members
of the committee may appoint a member of his/her department to act for the
committee member on those occasions when the committee member is unable to
attend a meeting of the committee. The site plan review committee shall have
the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To review and make final decisions on site plan review (section
6-4-5 of this title).
The site plan review committee shall adopt its own rules and regulations, and
shall elect a chairperson to call all meetings of the committee as needed. A
quorum shall consist of two (2) members of the committee. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-
2006)
6-2-5: PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
In addition to those powers and duties set forth in this code, the director of
economic development or his/her designee, or other official to whom such duties
and powers are delegated by the village board for the purposes of this title,
shall be considered the planning and zoning administrator, and shall have the
following powers and duties:
   (A)   To make recommendations to the plan commission/zoning board of appeals
on special use applications (section
6-4-3 of this title).
   (B)   To receive, review, and issue zoning certificates (section
6-4-8 of this title).
   (C)   To receive, review and make decisions on zoning interpretations
(section
6-4-11 of this title).
   (D)   To receive, file, and forward to the building commissioner, other
appropriate village department heads, or the plan commission/zoning board of
appeals applications for amendments, variations, special uses, planned unit
developments and site plan review.
   (E)   To receive, file, and forward to the plan commission/zoning board of
appeals the appeals of building commissioner administrative decisions.
   (F)   To receive, review and make decisions on interpretations of the
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-2-6: VILLAGE CLERK:
In addition to those powers and duties set forth in this code, the village
clerk or his/her designee, or other official to whom such duties and powers are
delegated by the village board, shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To maintain permanent and current records of this title including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments, variations, special uses, zoning appeals,
interpretations, and applications thereof.
   (B)   To receive, file, and forward to the village board or plan commission/
zoning board of appeals applications for zoning appeals of site plan review
committee or planning and zoning administrator decisions.
   (C)   To receive recommendations from the planning and zoning administrator
on special uses and transmit the same to the plan commission/zoning board of
appeals, and to receive recommendations from the plan commission/zoning board
of appeals on applications for amendments, variations, and special uses and
transmit the same to the village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Application
6-3-2: Public Hearing
6-3-3: Public Notice
6-3-1: APPLICATION:
   (A)   Authorization:
      1.   An application for a variation, special use, planned unit
development, site plan review, or zoning appeal may be filed only by the owner
or lessee of the property, or by an agent or contract purchaser specifically
authorized by the owner to file such application.
      2.   An application for a map or text amendment, or request for a zoning
interpretation may be filed by an owner, lessee, agent, or contract purchaser
of property located in the village or may be initiated by the village.
   (B)   Filing:
      1.   An application for a text or map amendment, variation, special use,
planned unit development, site plan review, zoning certificate, zoning
interpretation or appeal of a building commissioner decision shall be filed
with the planning and zoning administrator.
      2.   An application for an appeal of a planning and zoning administrator
or site plan review committee decision shall be filed with the village clerk.
      3.   An application for a building permit, sign permit, or occupancy
permit shall be filed with the building commissioner.
      4.   The application shall be on forms provided by the village and shall
be filed in such number as the instructions provide. All plans shall be at a
scale sufficient to permit a clear and precise understanding of the proposal.
The application shall include information, plans and data as specified in
subsection (C), "Submission Requirements", of this section, and sufficient to
determine whether the application conforms with the requirements set forth in
this title.
   (C)   Submission Requirements:
      1.   Amendment To The Zoning Ordinance Text: Every application for an
amendment to the zoning text shall be accompanied by an application form as may
be required by the village and the following documentation, unless specifically
waived by the appropriate village official or body:
         (a) A statement identifying the existing section or sections of the
zoning ordinance concerning which the text amendment is being sought, the
revised language being proposed, and the reason or reasons for the requested
zoning text amendment.
         (b) A statement indicating the manner in which the requested amendment
supports each of the following conclusions:
            (1) The amendment to the text will not result in any building
construction, land use or other development related activity which would be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general
welfare of the community as a whole or any portion thereof.
            (2) The amendment to the text is consistent with the spirit and
intent of the zoning ordinance and comprehensive plan.
            (3) The standards contained in subsection
6-4-1(E), "Standards For Zoning Text And Map Amendments", of this title.
         (c) Any other information or documentation requested by the planning
and zoning administrator.
      2.   Amendment To The Zoning Map: Every application for an amendment to
the zoning map shall be accompanied by an application form as may be required
by the village and the following documentation, unless specifically waived by
the appropriate village official or body:
         (a) Proof of ownership of the zoning lot in question. If applicant is
not the owner, a statement signed by the owner must be submitted certifying
that the owner is jointly filing the application for an amendment to the zoning
map.
         (b) A plat of survey of the parcel or parcels of land comprising the
zoning lot, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of said zoning lot,
including all parcels or lots contained therein, and drawn in accordance with
the recorded plat of such land.
         (c) A statement identifying the existing zoning district for the
zoning lot in question, the zoning district requested, and the reason or
reasons for the requested amendment to the zoning map.
         (d) A statement indicating the manner in which the requested amendment
supports each of the following conclusions:
            (1) The amendment to the text will not result in any building
construction, land use or other development related activity which would be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general
welfare of the community as a whole or any portion thereof.
            (2) The amendment to the text is consistent with the spirit and
intent of this zoning ordinance and comprehensive plan.
            (3) The standards contained in subsection
6-4-1(E), "Standards For Zoning Text And Map Amendments", of this title.
         (e) Any other information or documentation requested by the planning
and zoning administrator.
      3.   Variations: Every application for a variation shall be accompanied
by an application form as may be required by the village and the following
documentation, unless specifically waived by the appropriate village official
or body:
         (a) Proof of ownership of the zoning lot in question. If applicant is
not the owner, a statement signed by the owner must be submitted certifying
that the owner is jointly filing the application for a variation.
         (b) A plat of survey of the parcel or parcels of land comprising the
zoning lot, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of said zoning lot,
including all parcels or lots contained therein, and drawn in accordance with
the recorded plat of such land.
         (c) A site plan drawn to an appropriate scale showing the zoning lot
in question and adequately illustrating in a graphic manner the nature of the
requested variation.
         (d) A site location map drawn to an appropriate scale indicating
existing land use and zoning of all property within two hundred feet (200') of
the subject property.
         (e) The characteristics of the subject property which prevent
compliance with said requirements of this title.
         (f) The minimum modification of the requirements of this title that
would be necessary to permit the proposed use or construction.
         (g) The manner in which the variation requested is in accordance with
the standards contained in subsection
6-4-2(E), "Findings Of Fact For Variations", of this title, including support
of each of the following conclusions:
            (1) That the property in question cannot yield a reasonable return
if permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the district in which it is located.
            (2) That the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
            (3) That the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood.
            (h) Any other information or documentation requested by the
planning and zoning administrator.
      4.   Special Use Application 1 : Every application for a special use
shall be accompanied by an application form as may be required by the village
and the following documentation, unless specifically waived by the appropriate
village official or body:
         (a) Proof of ownership of the zoning lot in question (photocopy
acceptable). If applicant is not the owner, a statement signed by the owner
must be submitted certifying that the owner is jointly filing the application
for a special use.
         (b) A plat of survey of the parcel or parcels of land comprising the
zoning lot, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of said zoning lot,
including all parcels or lots contained therein, and drawn in accordance with
the recorded plat of such land.
         (c) A site location map drawn to an appropriate scale indicating
existing land use and zoning of all property within two hundred feet (200') of
the subject property.
         (d) A statement indicating the manner in which the requested special
use supports each of the following conclusions:
            (1) That the establishment, maintenance and operation of the
special use in the specific location proposed will not endanger the public
health, safety, comfort or general welfare of the community as a whole or any
portion thereof.
            (2) That the proposed special use is compatible with adjacent
properties and other property within the immediate vicinity.
            (3) That the special use in the specific location proposed is
consistent with the spirit and intent of this zoning ordinance and the adopted
comprehensive plan.
         (e) Any other information or documentation requested by the planning
and zoning administrator.
      5.   Planned Unit Development 2 : Every application for a planned unit
development shall be accompanied by an application form as may be required by
the village and the following documentation, unless specifically waived by the
appropriate village official or body:
         (a) Proof of ownership of the zoning lot in question. If applicant is
not the owner, a statement signed by the owner must be submitted certifying
that the owner is jointly filing the application for a planned unit
development.
         (b) A site location map drawn to an appropriate scale indicating
existing land use and zoning of all property within two hundred feet (200') of
the subject property.
         (c) A preliminary development plan prepared in strict accordance with
subsection
6-4-4(E)1, "Preliminary Plan Procedure", of this title.
         (d) A statement indicating the manner in which the requested planned
unit development supports the standards of subsection
6-4-4(B), "General Standards", of this title.
         (e) Any other information or documentation required by the planning
and zoning administrator.
      6.   Site Plan Review: Every application for site plan review shall be
accompanied by an application form as may be required by the village and the
following documentation, unless specifically waived by the appropriate village
official or body:
         (a) A plat of survey of the parcel or parcels of land comprising the
zoning lot, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of said zoning lot,
including all parcels or lots contained therein, and drawn in accordance with
the recorded plat of such land.
         (b) A site location map drawn to an appropriate scale indicating
existing land use and zoning of all property within two hundred feet (200') of
the subject property.
         (c) A site plan drawn to scale, which shall indicate, at a minimum
(see also site plan specifications in subsection (C)6(d) of this section):
            (1) Property lines.
            (2) Acreage and proposed density.
            (3) Public rights of way, easements, and utilities.
            (4) Proposed and existing building footprints on the subject
property and all surrounding properties, including dimensioned setbacks from
property lines.
            (5) Parking space locations, dimensions and number of spaces.
            (6) Paved surfaces, materials and location(s).
            (7) Landscape plan indicating existing and proposed landscape
materials and associated proposed plant materials list.
            (8) Details for screening, fencing, site lighting, and signs. Where
site lighting is proposed, a photometric grid that indicates light intensity in
foot-candles across the site and at all property lines shall also be required.
            (9) Architectural elevations drawn to scale and indicating building
height, photographs and massing diagrams of the subject property and abutting
properties that show all facades of the proposed building in its existing
context.
         (d) Plans and drawings shall be a minimum scale of one inch equals
forty feet (1"=40'), unless otherwise indicated. The maximum sheet size shall
be twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24"x36"), and all plans shall be
folded to approximately eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2"x11").
The following is required on all site plan drawings:
            (1) Proposed name of the development (the proposed development
shall not duplicate the name of any plat recorded in Cook County).
            (2) Drawing title and sheet title.
            (3) Exhibit number and label.
            (4) Engineering scale, both numerically and graphically.
            (5) North arrow, designated as true north.
            (6) Date of preparation of original drawing and date of any
revisions.
            (7) Names, addresses, and phone and fax numbers of the owner,
subdivider or developer having control of the site.
            (8) Name and professional seal of registered engineer and/or
surveyor.
            (9) Name, professional seal, address, and phone number of site
planner(s).
         (e) Any other information or documentation required by the planning
and zoning administrator.
      7.   Occupancy Permit: Application for an occupancy permit shall be
accompanied by an application form as may be required by the village. An
application for an occupancy permit shall be submitted to the building
commissioner.
      8.   Zoning Certificate: Application for a zoning certificate shall be
submitted:
         (a) At the same time as the application for a building permit for the
construction of a new building or for structural alteration of an existing
building.
         (b) To the planning and zoning administrator when application for a
zoning certificate is made for a change in the use of land or of a building, or
for a change in a nonconforming use.
      9.   Sign Permit: Every application for a sign permit shall be
accompanied by an application form as may be required by the village and the
following documentation, unless specifically waived by the appropriate village
official or body:
         (a) Plan drawing of the following:
            (1) Location of the building, structure or lot to which, or upon
which, the sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.
            (2) The position of the sign or other advertising structure in
relation to nearby buildings or structures.
            (3) Sign specifications, as well as methods of construction and
attachment to the building, other structure or ground. If the size of the sign
exceeds one hundred (100) square feet, a structural engineer's stamp of
approval may be required.
            (4) If required by the building commissioner, a copy of stress
sheets and calculations showing that the structure is designed for dead load
and wind pressure in any direction in the amount required by this title, and
all other laws and ordinances of the village.
            (5) The dimensions of the lot on which the sign is to be erected.
In cases involving wall signs, the dimensions of the wall to which the sign
will be attached are required.
         (b) Current photograph of the site and description of current signage
in place and a statement as to whether such signage and sign structure shall be
replaced.
         (c) A statement of written consent of the owner of the building,
structure or land to which the structure is being erected or attached.
         (d) A bond and/or insurance policy as required by subsection
6-4-9(F), "Bond And Certificate Of Insurance", of this title.
         (e) Any other information or documentation required by the planning
and zoning administrator.
      10.   Appeals: Every application for an appeal of a planning and zoning
administrator or site plan review committee decision shall be accompanied by an
application form as may be required by the village and the following
documentation, unless specifically waived by the appropriate village official
or body:
         (a) A statement identifying the decision of the zoning administrator
or site plan review committee concerning which the notice of appeal is being
filed, and citing the reason(s) why the applicant is appealing said decision.
         (b) A site plan drawn to scale showing the zoning lot in question and
adequately illustrating in a graphic manner the nature of the appeal.
         (c) Any other information or documentation required by the plan
commission/zoning board of appeals or village board (in the case of a site plan
review committee decision notice of appeal).
      11.   Zoning Interpretation: Application for a zoning interpretation
shall be accompanied by an application form as may be required by the village.
An application for a zoning interpretation shall be submitted to the planning
and zoning administrator.
      12.   Temporary Use Permit: Application for a temporary use permit shall
be accompanied by an application form as may be required by the village. An
application for a temporary use permit shall be submitted to the planning and
zoning administrator.
   (D)   Completeness: The building commissioner, planning and zoning
administrator, or village clerk shall determine whether the application is
complete. If the application is not complete, the building commissioner,
planning and zoning administrator, or village clerk shall notify the applicant
of any deficiencies, and shall take no steps to process the application until
the deficiencies are remedied. Once the building commissioner, planning and
zoning administrator, or village clerk determine that the application is
complete, the application shall be scheduled for consideration at a public
hearing, where applicable.
   (E)   Fees: Every application shall be accompanied by the required filing
fee as established and modified, from time to time, by the village board. The
failure to pay such fee when due shall be grounds for refusing to process the
application, and for denying or revoking any permit or approval for the subject
property. No fees shall be waived, and no fees shall be refunded, except those
authorized by the village board in its sole discretion.
   (F)   Withdrawal Of Application: An applicant shall have the right to
withdraw an application at any time prior to the decision on the application by
a village official, commission, or board. Such withdrawal shall be in writing.
There shall be no refund of fees.
   (G)   Successive Applications: Within one year of the date of denial, a
subsequent application shall not be reviewed or heard unless there is
substantial new evidence available, or if a significant mistake of law or of
fact affected the prior denial. Such subsequent application shall include a
detailed statement of the grounds justifying its consideration. The building
commissioner shall make a determination as to whether the subsequent
application is making essentially the same request. If the building
commissioner finds that there are no grounds for consideration of the
subsequent application, he/she shall summarily, and without hearing, deny the
request. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. All special uses are subject to site plan review and the requirements of
  that procedure.
2 2. All planned unit developments are subject to special use and the
  requirements of that procedure.
6-3-2: PUBLIC HEARING:
   (A)   Conduct Of Public Hearings:
      1.   Public hearings will be conducted at meetings of the body conducting
the hearing, or at other such times as decided by the chairperson with the
approval of a majority of the body conducting the hearing.
      2.   A complete record for each public hearing will be distributed with
the agenda for the next regular meeting, or as soon as a transcript is
available.
      3.   The procedure for public hearings shall be as follows:
         (a) Call to order and roll call.
         (b) The chairperson opens the public hearing for the application(s).
         (c) The chairperson presents a brief explanation of the public hearing
procedure and swears in those wishing to give testimony.
         (d) The secretary of the body conducting the hearing presents the
application:
            (1) The secretary enters the application into the record by
describing each accompanying exhibit with its title and number.
            (2) The secretary reads any part of the application or exhibits
deemed necessary, or requested by a member of the body conducting the hearing
or audience member.
         (e) Applicant presents testimony regarding the petition and associated
applications. The initial oral presentation by the applicant shall be limited
to ten (10) minutes for simple applications and thirty (30) minutes for complex
applications. The chairperson may permit an extension of time if he/she
determines that the allotted time does not provide sufficient opportunity to
fairly present the application.
         (f) Questions are directed to the applicant by the body conducting the
hearing and public hearing attendees.
         (g) Presentation of testimony from others regarding the petition and
associated applications.
         (h) Rebuttals.
         (i) Followup questions from the body conducting the hearing.
         (j) Discussion of evidence gathered relative to the findings of fact
by the body conducting the hearing.
         (k) Hearing closed or continued by the approval of a motion of the
body conducting the hearing. If the hearing is closed, the body conducting the
hearing shall not accept any comment regarding the petition from outside
parties, except:
            (1) A staff report based on evidence presented at the public
hearing.
            (2) Any person presenting information in response to a specific
question from the body conducting the hearing.
            (3) Any person presenting testimony that directly rebuts sworn
testimony presented at the hearing.
   (B)   Continuances: The chairperson, with approval of the body conducting
the hearing, may change or continue the regular public hearing date and time.
In order to reopen the hearing, no new notice shall be required if a hearing is
continued to a date specified, provided that a public announcement of the
future date, time, and place of the continued hearing is made at the hearing
and placed in the minutes. If the hearing is adjourned, rather than continued
to a date specified, in order to reopen the hearing all notices must be given
that would have been required for the initial public hearing.
   (C)   Evidence And Testimony:
      1.   All interested parties may appear for themselves or be represented
by a person of their choosing. Written statements will be accepted prior to the
hearing to be entered into the public hearing record.
      2.   All testimony and evidence shall be given under oath or by
affirmation. Any person may appear at a hearing and submit evidence, upon
receiving recognition from the chairperson of the body conducting the hearing.
Each person who submits evidence shall identify themselves and their address.
Any person may ask relevant questions of other witnesses, but only through the
chairperson and at the discretion of the chairperson.
      3.   The chairperson, with consent of a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the
body conducting the hearing, may limit testimony to a specific amount of time
to provide a reasonable opportunity for all interested persons to testify.
      4.   The body conducting the hearing is not bound by strict rules of
evidence, but the chairperson may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent,
or unduly repetitious testimony or evidence. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-3-3: PUBLIC NOTICE:
   (A)   Published Notices: For all applications that require a public hearing,
the village shall cause a notice to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village. The notice shall include the date, time, place
and purpose of such hearing, the name of the applicant, and the address of the
subject property. Such notice shall be published not less than fifteen (15)
days, nor more than thirty (30) days, in advance of the scheduled hearing date.
   (B)   Posted Sign Notices: In addition to the required published notice, the
applicant shall be required to post a sign on the subject property for all
public hearings for zoning map amendments, variations or special use
applications, in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Location And Time Period For Posting Signs: The required posting
period shall be fifteen (15) consecutive days, immediately prior to the hearing
date (excluding the day of the hearing from the 15 day period). The sign shall
be posted at a prominent location on the property, near the sidewalk or public
right of way so that it is visible to passing pedestrians and motorists.
Properties with more than one street frontage shall be required to post one
sign visible from each street frontage.
      2.   Applicant's Responsibility For Posting Signs: It is the applicant's
responsibility to erect the sign on the property and maintain it during the
required fifteen (15) day period. The applicant shall verify to the plan
commission/zoning board of appeals, at the time of the hearing, that the sign
posting requirement has been complied with and the plan commission/zoning board
of appeals may, by motion, waive any defects in said compliance.
      3.   Content Of Posted Signs: The sign, to be conspicuously posted on the
subject property, shall be weatherproof and at least three feet by four feet
(3' x 4') in size. The sign shall have a white background and contain the word
"NOTICE" in at least six inch (6") high, red capital letters. The remaining
lettering shall be a minimum of three inches (3") high and in black capital
letters. The notice shall contain the following language:
THIS PROPERTY IS THE SUBJECT OF A (DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION) BEFORE THE RIVER
GROVE (BODY CONDUCTING THE HEARING) ON (DATE) AT (TIME) AT (LOCATION).
      4.   Failure To Post: Failure to post for the required time will nullify
the meeting.
   (C)   Mailed Notice: For public hearings for zoning map amendments,
variations, or special use applications, written notice shall be mailed by
regular mail and by certified mail to the owners of all properties located
within two hundred fifty feet (250') from the property line of the subject
property at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing. The two
hundred fifty feet (250') shall be measured in all directions from the
perimeter of the subject property, provided that the number of feet occupied by
all public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in
computing the two hundred fifty foot (250') requirement. The giving of notice
pursuant to this section shall not be construed to prevent the applicant from
giving such additional notice as he/she may deem appropriate.
   (D)   Public Examination And Copying: During normal business hours, any
person may examine the application and material submitted in support of, or in
opposition to, the application, subject to the exceptions set forth in the
freedom of information act. Upon reasonable request, any person shall be
entitled to copies of the application and related documents. The building
commissioner, planning and zoning administrator, or village clerk shall make
copies of such materials available for a fee as specified by the village. (Ord.
2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING APPLICATIONS AND APPROVAL PROCESSES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Zoning Text And Map Amendments
6-4-2: Variations
6-4-3: Special Uses
6-4-4: Planned Unit Developments
6-4-5: Site Plan Review
6-4-6: Building Permit
6-4-7: Occupancy Permit
6-4-8: Zoning Certificate
6-4-9: Sign Permit
6-4-10: Appeals
6-4-11: Zoning Interpretation
6-4-12: Enforcement And Penalties
6-4-1: ZONING TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENTS:
   (A)   Purpose: The process for amending the zoning ordinance text or map is
intended to permit modifications in response to changed conditions or changes
in village policy. Amendments are not intended to relieve particular hardships
or confer special privileges or rights upon any person or party.
   (B)   Initiation Of Amendments: The village, or any person having a right of
ownership of any property in the village, may propose map or text amendments.
All applications for map or text amendments shall be filed with the planning
and zoning administrator in accordance with the requirements of section
6-3-1, "Application", of this title. Amendments initiated by the village
require an application, but are exempt from fees.
   (C)   Authority And Execution: The village board, after receiving a
recommendation from the plan commission/zoning board of appeals, shall take
formal action on requests for map or text amendments.
   (D)   Procedure:
      1.   Acceptance Of Application By Planning And Zoning Administrator: Upon
receipt of a complete application, the planning and zoning administrator shall
review the application for completeness. The planning and zoning administrator
shall schedule the application for an upcoming plan commission/zoning board of
appeals agenda for consideration.
      2.   Action By The Plan Commission/Zoning Board Of Appeals:
         (a) The plan commission/zoning board of appeals shall hold a public
hearing in accordance with section
6-3-2, "Public Hearing", of this title within thirty (30) days of the filing of
the completed application. Notice for the public hearing shall be in accordance
with section
6-3-3, "Public Notice", of this title.
         (b) Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing, the
plan commission/zoning board of appeals shall forward to the village board its
findings of fact and recommendation of either approval, approval with
conditions, or denial on applications for zoning text amendments, or
recommendation of either approval or denial on applications for zoning map
amendments.
      3.   Action By The Village Board: The village board shall consider the
application within thirty (30) days of receiving the findings of fact and
recommendation from the plan commission/zoning board of appeals. The village
board may take action in the form of approval, approval with conditions, or
denial on applications for zoning text amendments, and approval or denial on
applications for zoning map amendments. The village board may also refer the
matter back to the plan commission/zoning board of appeals for further
consideration.
   (E)   Standards For Zoning Text And Map Amendments: The plan commission/
zoning board of appeals recommendation and village board decision on any zoning
amendment, whether text or map amendment, is a matter of legislative discretion
that is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making their
recommendation and decision, the plan commission/zoning board of appeals and
village board shall consider the following standards, as set forth in table 1,
"Standards For Zoning Map And Text Amendments", of this section:
   TABLE 1
   STANDARDS FOR ZONING MAP AND TEXT AMENDMENTS
Standards Map Amendments Text Amendments
Standards                                                                       Map        Text
                                                                                Amendments Amendments
1.   The existing use and zoning of nearby property.                         X
2.   The extent to which property values of the subject property are diminishXd
by the existing zoning.
3.   The extent to which the proposed amendment promotes the public health,  X          X
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the village.
4.   The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship imposed upoX          X
the applicant.
5.   The suitability of the property for the purposes for which it is presently
zoned, i.e., the feasibility of developing the property in question for 1 or    X
more of the uses permitted under the existing zoning classification.
6.   The length of time that the property in question has been vacant, as
presently zoned, considered in the context of development in the area where the X
property is located.
7.   The evidence, or lack of evidence, of community need for the use proposeX
by the applicant.
8.   The consistency of the proposed amendment with the comprehensive plan.  X          X
9.   The consistency of the proposed amendment with the intent and general              X
regulations of this title.
10.   Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds                X
clarification to existing requirements, or reflects a change in policy.
11.   That the proposed amendment will benefit the residents of the village as
a whole, and not just the applicant, property owner(s), neighbors of any
property under consideration, or other special interest groups, and the extent  X          X
to which the proposed use would be in the public interest and would not serve
solely the interest of the applicant.
12.   Whether the proposed amendment provides a more workable way to achieve            X
the intent and purposes of this title and the comprehensive plan.
13.   The extent to which the proposed amendment creates nonconformities.    X          X
14.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the property iX
question.
15.   Whether adequate public facilities are available including, but not
limited to, schools, parks, police and fire protection, roads, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, and water lines, or are reasonably capable of being provided      X
prior to the development of the uses, which would be permitted on the subject
property if the amendment were adopted.
16.   The extent to which the proposed amendment is consistent with the overall         X
structure and organization of this title.
 
   (F)   Written Protest: In the case of a written protest against any proposed
amendment of the regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged either by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered or
twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjacent to or across an alley
therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage abutting or
directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, the amendment shall not
be passed except by a favorable vote of two- thirds (2/3) of the members of the
village board then holding office. In such cases, a copy of the written protest
shall be served, by the protestor, to both the applicant for the proposed
amendment and the applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at the
address of such applicant and attorney shown in the application for the
proposed amendment.
   (G)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-2: VARIATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose: The variation process is to provide a narrowly circumscribed
means by which relief may be granted from unforeseen applications of this title
that create practical difficulties or particular hardships.
   (B)   Initiation Of Variations: Any person having a right of ownership in or
an option to buy any property in the village of River Grove may request a
variation. All applications for variations shall be filed with the planning and
zoning administrator in accordance with the requirements in section
6-3-1, "Application", of this title.
   (C)   Authority And Execution: The village board, after receiving a
recommendation from the plan commission/zoning board of appeals, shall take
formal action on variation requests.
   (D)   Procedure:
      1.   Acceptance Of Application By Planning And Zoning Administrator: Upon
receipt of a complete application, the planning and zoning administrator shall
review the application for completeness. The planning and zoning administrator
shall distribute the application to the building commissioner and other
applicable village departments for review, with any recommendations from the
building commissioner and village departments to be heard at the plan
commission/zoning board of appeals public hearing. The planning and zoning
administrator shall schedule the application for an upcoming plan commission/
zoning board of appeals agenda for consideration.
      2.   Action By The Plan Commission/Zoning Board Of Appeals:
         (a) The plan commission/zoning board of appeals shall hold a public
hearing in accordance with section
6-3-2, "Public Hearing", of this title within thirty (30) days of the filing of
the completed application. Notice for the public hearing shall be in accordance
with section
6-3-3, "Public Notice", of this title.
         (b) Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing, the
plan commission/zoning board of appeals shall forward its findings of fact and
recommendation of either approval, approval with conditions, or denial on
applications for variations to the village board.
      3.   Action By The Village Board: The village board shall consider the
application within thirty (30) days of receiving the findings of fact and
recommendation from the plan commission/zoning board of appeals. The village
board may take action in the form of approval, approval with conditions, or
denial on applications for variations. The village board may also refer the
matter back to the plan commission/zoning board of appeals for further
consideration. Any variation for which the plan commission/zoning board of
appeals recommends denial may only be approved by a favorable two-thirds (2/3)
vote of the village board.
   (E)   Findings Of Fact For Variations: A variation from the provisions of
this title shall not be granted unless the plan commission/zoning board of
appeals in its recommendation, and village board in its decision, make specific
findings of fact directly based on the standards and conditions imposed by this
section. The standards for variations shall be as follows:
      1.   Hardship: No variation shall be granted unless the applicant shall
establish that carrying out the strict letter of the provisions of this title
would create a practical difficulty or particular hardship.
      2.   Unique Physical Conditions: The subject property is exceptional, as
compared to other properties subject to the same provisions, by means of a
unique physical condition, including:
         (a) Irregular or substandard size, shape, or configuration.
         (b) Exceptional topographical features.
         (c) Presence of an existing use, structure, or sign, whether
conforming or nonconforming.
(d) Other extraordinary physical conditions peculiar to, and inherent in, the
subject property.
These unique physical conditions shall amount to more than a mere inconvenience
to the property owner and shall relate to or arise out of the characteristics
of the property rather than the personal situation or preference of the current
property owner.
      3.   Not Self-Created: The aforesaid unique physical condition is not the
result of any action or inaction of the property owner, or his/her predecessors
in title, and that it existed at the time of enactment of the provisions from
which a variation is sought, was created by natural forces or was the result of
governmental action, other than the adoption of this title.
      4.   Denied Substantial Rights: The carrying out of the strict letter of
provision from which a variation is sought would deprive the owner of the
subject property of substantial rights commonly enjoyed by owners of other
properties subject to the same provisions.
      5.   Not Merely Special Privilege: The alleged hardship or difficulty is
neither merely the inability of the owner or occupants to enjoy some special
privilege or additional right not available to owners or occupants of other
lots or properties subject to the same provisions, nor merely the inability of
the owner to gain a greater financial return from the use of the subject
property.
      6.   Conformance With This Title And Plan Purposes: The variation would
not result in a use of development of the subject property that would not be in
harmony with the general and specific purposes of this title, including the
provision from which a variation is sought, or the general purpose and intent
of the comprehensive plan.
      7.   No Other Remedy: There is no means, other than granting the
requested variation, by which the alleged hardship or difficulty can be avoided
or remedied to a degree sufficient to permit a reasonable use of the subject
property.
      8.   Minimum Relief Required: The requested variation is the minimum
measure of relief necessary to alleviate the alleged hardship or difficulty
presented by the strict application of this title.
   (F)   Variation Less Than Requested: The plan commission/zoning board of
appeals may recommend, and the village board may grant, variations less than or
different from that requested when the record supports the applicant's right to
some relief, but not to the entire relief requested.
   (G)   Conditions On Variations: The plan commission/zoning board of appeals
may recommend, and the village board may impose, specific conditions and
restrictions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
screening and other matters, which address the purposes and objectives of this
title, upon any property that is granted a variation. These conditions may be
necessary or appropriate to prevent or minimize adverse effects upon other
property and improvements in the vicinity of the subject property or upon
public facilities or services. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in
the ordinance or order granting the variation. Failure to maintain such
conditions or restrictions as may have been imposed shall constitute grounds
for revocation of the variation.
   (H)   Limitations On Variations:
      1.   Variations shall become null and void unless a building permit is
issued and construction is actually begun within six (6) months of granting the
variation and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion. After notice to
the property owner and an opportunity for a hearing, the village board may
terminate the variation. However, the village board may extend this period,
upon written request from the applicant showing good cause.
      2.   A variation is granted to a specific property and authorizes the
conduct of the variation only on the property represented on the application
and is not transferable to other properties.
      3.   The approval of a variation only authorizes the particular
construction or development for which it was issued, but does not authorize the
establishment or extension of any use, nor development, construction,
reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building or structure without first
obtaining any other required permit, including a zoning certificate, building
permit and occupancy permit. The approved variation shall automatically expire
and cease to be of any force or effect if such construction or development is
beyond the scope so authorized.
   (I)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-3: SPECIAL USES:
   (A)   Purpose: The development and execution of this title is based upon the
division of the village into districts, within any one of which the use of land
and buildings, and the bulk and location of the buildings or structures, as
related to the land, are essentially uniform. It is recognized, however, that
there are special uses which, because of their unique character, cannot be
properly classified in any particular district or districts, without
consideration, in each case, of the impact of that use upon neighboring lands
and upon the public need for the particular use of the particular location.
Such uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses operated by a public agency or publicly regulated utilities, or
uses traditionally associated with a public interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities.
   (B)   Initiation Of Special Uses: Any person having a right of ownership in
or an option to buy any property in the village may request a special use. All
applications for special uses shall be filed with the planning and zoning
administrator in accordance with the requirements in section
6-3-1, "Application", of this title.
   (C)   Authority And Execution: The village board, after receiving a
recommendation by the plan commission/zoning board of appeals, shall take
formal action on special use requests.
   (D)   Procedure:
      1.   Acceptance Of Application By Planning And Zoning Administrator: Upon
receipt of a complete application, the planning and zoning administrator shall
review the application for completeness. The planning and zoning administrator
shall schedule the application for an upcoming plan commission/zoning board of
appeals agenda for consideration and send the application to other appropriate
village departments for review, with any recommendations to be heard at the
plan commission/zoning board of appeals public hearing. The planning and zoning
administrator may also prepare his/her recommendation on the proposed special
use for the plan commission/zoning board of appeals.
      2.   Action By The Plan Commission/Zoning Board Of Appeals:
(a) The planning and zoning administrator shall forward his/her recommendation
and the plan commission/zoning board of appeals shall hold a public hearing in
accordance with section
6-3-2, "Public Hearing", of this title within thirty (30) days of the filing of
the completed application. Notice for the public hearing shall be in accordance
with section
6-3-3, "Public Notice", of this title.
(b) Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing, the plan
commission/zoning board of appeals shall forward its findings of fact and
recommendation of either approval, approval with conditions, or denial on
applications for special uses to the village board.
      3.   Action By The Village Board: The village board shall consider the
application within thirty (30) days of receiving the findings of fact and
recommendation from the plan commission/zoning board of appeals. The village
board may take action in the form of approval, approval with conditions, or
denial on applications for special uses. The village board may also refer the
matter back to the plan commission/zoning board of appeals for further
consideration.
   (E)   Standards For Special Uses: The planning and zoning administrator
recommendation, plan commission/zoning board of appeals recommendation, and the
village board decision, on any special use is a matter of legislative
discretion that is not controlled by any one standard. An application for a
special use shall not be approved unless the application is determined to be in
conformance with each of the following standards, in addition to any specific
use standards included in chapter 10, "Use Standards", of this title:
      1.   The proposed special use is, in fact, a special use authorized in
the zoning district in which the property is located.
      2.   The proposed special use is deemed necessary for the public
convenience at that location.
      3.   The proposed special use does not create excessive additional
impacts at public expense for public facilities and services, and will be
beneficial to the economic welfare of the community.
      4.   The proposed use is in conformance with the goals and policies of
the comprehensive plan, and all village codes and regulations.
      5.   The proposed special use will be designed, located, operated, and
maintained so as to be harmonious and compatible in use and appearance with the
existing or intended character of the general vicinity.
      6.   The proposed special use will not significantly diminish the safety,
use, enjoyment, and value of other property in the neighborhood in which it is
located.
      7.   The proposed special use is compatible with development on adjacent
property.
      8.   The proposed special use minimizes potentially dangerous traffic
movements, and provides adequate and safe access to the site.
      9.   The proposed special use provides the required number of parking
spaces and maintains parking areas, in accordance with the requirements of this
title.
      10.   The proposed special use is served by adequate utilities, drainage,
road access, public safety, and other necessary facilities.
      11.   The proposed special use conforms with the requirements of this
title and other applicable regulations.
   (F)   No Presumption Of Approval: The listing of a use as a special use
within a zoning district does not constitute an assurance or presumption that
such special use will be approved. Rather each proposed special use shall be
evaluated on an individual basis, in relation to the standards in this section,
the standards in chapter 10, "Use Standards", of this title and the standards
for the district in which it is located. Such evaluation will determine whether
approval of the special use is appropriate at the particular location and in
the particular manner proposed.
   (G)   Conditions On Special Uses: The plan commission/zoning board of
appeals may recommend, and the village board may impose, such conditions and
restrictions upon the construction, location and operation of a special use.
Such conditions must be deemed necessary to comply with the standards set forth
in this section, to promote the general objectives of this title, and to
minimize or reduce the injury to the value of property in the neighborhood.
Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the ordinance granting the
special use. Failure to maintain such conditions or restrictions as may have
been imposed shall constitute grounds for revocation of such special use
approval.
   (H)   Limitations On Special Uses:
      1.   Special use approval may become null and void unless a building
permit is issued within six (6) months and construction is thereafter
diligently pursued to completion, or an occupancy permit is issued and the
premises is occupied within ninety (90) days of the date of adoption of the
ordinance granting special use approval. After notice to the property owner and
an opportunity for a hearing, the village board may terminate the special use.
However, the village board may extend this period upon written request from the
applicant showing good cause.
      2.   Special use approval is granted to a specific property and
authorizes the conduct of the special use only on the property represented on
the application and is not transferable to other properties.
      3.   The approval of a special use authorizes the use on the property in
the manner proposed, but does not in itself authorize the establishment of such
use without first obtaining any other required approvals, including a building
permit, sign permit, occupancy permit, zoning certificate, and site plan
review.
      4.   Any modification or intensification of a special use that alters the
essential character or operation of the use in a way not approved at the time
the special use was granted, as evidenced by the record or by the text of this
title, shall require new special use approval in accordance with this section.
   (I)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-4: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of any planned unit development (PUD) shall be to
allow:
      1.   A creative approach in the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better design, including building relationships,
architectural styles, and aesthetic amenities by allowing development that
would not be possible under the strict application of this title.
      2.   An efficient use of the land that results in more economical
networks of utilities, streets and other facilities, and lowers development
costs.
      3.   A coordinated mix of land uses that promotes the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience, and welfare, and contributes substantially to the
tax base of the community without making undue demands on community services.
   (B)   General Standards: All planned unit developments must meet the
following standards:
      1.   Planned unit developments must be a minimum of twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet in area.
      2.   Planned unit developments shall be compatible with the purpose and
intent of this title and the village's comprehensive plan. A planned unit
development shall exercise no substantial detrimental influence upon the market
value of surrounding properties and it shall cause no substantial impairment of
the use of those properties by present owners.
      3.   The petitioner must make a showing of favorable economic impact on
the village.
      4.   The petitioner must show that the proposed planned unit development
will be in no way detrimental to, or adversely affect, the environment. Natural
assets and features, such as existing trees and native vegetation, shall be
protected and preserved to the greatest extent possible.
      5.   Harmonious design, including a variety of building types, shall be
encouraged.
      6.   If common open space is provided, the developer shall provide for
and establish an organization or other legal entity for the ownership and
maintenance of any common open space designated within a planned unit
development. Such organization shall be created by covenants running with the
land, and such covenants shall be subject to approval by the village attorney
and village board, and included as a part of the final development plan. Such
organization shall not be dissolved, nor shall it dispose of any common open
space by sale or other means, except to an organization conceived and organized
to own and maintain the common open space for the purpose of benefiting the
owners and residents of the development, without first offering to dedicate the
open space to the village.
      7.   It must be shown that the development shall not impose an undue
burden on public services and facilities, such as fire and police protection,
schools, parks, water, the sanitary system, and any storm water runoff.
      8.   The site shall be accessible from dedicated public roads adequate to
carry the traffic generated by the proposed development. The driveways within
the proposed development shall be adequate to serve the residents or occupants
of the proposed development. Traffic control signals shall be provided without
expense to the village when the village board determines that such signals are
required to prevent or minimize actual or anticipated traffic hazards or
congestion in adjacent streets. Merging and turnout lanes and traffic dividers
shall be provided where existing or anticipated heavy flows of traffic indicate
such need. Access points shall be designed to provide smooth traffic flow,
control turning movements, and minimize hazards to vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, and shall be approved by the agency having jurisdiction. Fire lanes
shall be provided as required by the village.
   (C)   Permitted Exceptions To Bulk Standards:
      1.   A planned unit development is permitted to exceed the height limits
of the district in order to accommodate denser development, subject to the
approval of the village board.
      2.   The village board may grant a density bonus for a planned unit
development, with density calculations based upon the required minimum lot
sizes for the district in which the development is located. The total number of
bonus units shall be determined on a case by case basis, based on the merits of
the planned unit development. The village board shall grant the bonus based on
its review of the proposed planned unit development and a finding that the
proposed development offers superior layout and quality design based on design
and environmental amenities which exceed established development standards.
      3.   If uses other than those permitted by the district regulations are
allowed by the village board, there must be clear evidence that such uses are
desirable and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the
development. Such uses shall not be of such a nature or so located as to
exercise a detrimental influence on the development or the surrounding
neighborhood.
      4.   If determined that the planned unit development warrants deviation
from the parking requirements of this title, the village board may require more
off street parking spaces to be provided, or may permit a reduction in the
required number of off street parking spaces, than that required by section
6-12-13, "Required Off Street Parking Spaces", of this title.
   (D)   Amenities And Benefits: Planned unit developments shall include
clearly identifiable communitywide benefit improvements to the village.
Benefits may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Provision of streetscape amenities, such as street furniture and
landscaping, in addition to that required by this title.
      2.   Creation of community open space.
      3.   Utilization of transit oriented development design principles.
      4.   Expansion of village infrastructure that can serve other parts of
the community.
   (E)   Procedure: In its establishment and authorization as a special use, in
addition to the special use standards of subsection
6-4-3(E), "Standards For Special Uses", of this chapter the following
procedures, requirements, restrictions, and conditions shall be observed. In
addition to the special use procedures, approval of a planned unit development
plan is a two- step process, which includes a preliminary plan and a final
plan.
      1.   Preliminary Plan Procedure:
         (a) A preliminary plan and a special use permit application shall be
filed simultaneously with the planning and zoning administrator. The
preliminary plan and special use permit application will be placed on the
agenda of the next meeting of the plan commission/zoning board of appeals for a
preliminary discussion of the proposed planned unit development. The plan
commission/zoning board of appeals shall consider the proposed planned unit
development at such meeting.
         (b) Preliminary plans shall include the information, plans and data
specified in this section. The applicant shall present such exhibits and
written information as may be necessary to fully acquaint the plan commission/
zoning board of appeals with the proposed planned unit development, which shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
            (1) A boundary line survey of the subject site, which shall be
prepared and certified by a registered Illinois land surveyor.
            (2) A preliminary site plan.
            (3) An analysis that shows where and why the development requires
deviation from zoning ordinance regulations, why a planned unit development is
necessary, and what benefits the development will provide to the village.
            (4) A phasing plan delineating the various development phases, if
more than one, and specifying a reasonable time allocation for each phase,
shall be submitted and made a condition of approval.
            (5) A landscape plan, in conformance with section
6-14-2, "Landscape Plan", of this title.
            (6) A utility plan shall indicate all utilities. All utility lines
necessary to serve the development shall be installed underground.
            (7) A circulation plan shall indicate all circulation, pedestrian
access, vehicular access and parking areas.
         (c) The procedure for approval of the preliminary plan shall be:
            (1) The plan commission/zoning board of appeals shall review the
preliminary plan at a public hearing. No more than thirty (30) days after the
final adjournment of the public hearing, the plan commission/zoning board of
appeals shall either:
               A.   Recommend approval or denial of the preliminary plan and
submit its written recommendation to the village board, which may include the
recommendations of the planning and zoning administrator, village engineer,
building commissioner and/or village attorney, with a copy being sent to the
applicant.
               B.   Advise the applicant in writing of any changes, additions,
or corrections to the preliminary plan required by this title. The applicant
shall resubmit the revised preliminary plan for plan commission/zoning board of
appeals consideration at a continuation of, or at a new, public hearing. The
applicant shall do so without paying an additional filing fee. The plan
commission/zoning board of appeals shall then submit its recommendations, upon
review of the revised preliminary plan, in writing to the village board, which
may also include the recommendations of the planning and zoning administrator,
village engineer, plan commission, building commissioner and/or village
attorney, with a copy being sent to the applicant.
            (2) The plan commission/zoning board of appeals shall make
recommendations to the village board, and shall set forth in what respects the
planned unit development would be in the public interest including, but not
limited to, findings of fact on the following:
               A.   The extent to which the proposed plan meets the stated
purpose of planned unit developments.
               B.   The extent to which the proposed plan departs from the
zoning regulations otherwise applicable to the property and whether the
departures are in the public interest.
               C.   The extent to which the proposed plan produces a public
benefit in terms of physical development, tax base, compatibility with the
neighborhood and compliance with the planning objectives of the village.
               D.   The extent to which the proposed plan meets the
requirements and standards of the planned unit development regulations and the
comprehensive plan.
            (3) The village board, after receipt of the recommendations from
the plan commission/zoning board of appeals, shall approve, modify or deny the
preliminary plan within thirty (30) days following the receipt of the written
recommendations of the plan commission/zoning board of appeals. The applicant
and the village board may mutually agree to extend the thirty (30) day period.
               A.   If the preliminary plan is denied, the village board shall
state in writing the reasons for the denial, and such writing shall be filed
with the village clerk and a copy shall be sent to the applicant.
               B.   If the preliminary plan is approved, with or without
modifications agreed to by the applicant, the village board shall authorize the
applicant to submit a final development plan for the planned unit development.
      2.   Final Development Plan Procedure: Within one year following the
approval of the preliminary plan the applicant shall file with the plan
commission/zoning board of appeals a final development plan containing, in
final form, the information required for the preliminary plan. The final
development plan shall also include the following:
         (a) All Planned Unit Developments: All planned unit developments are
required to submit the following as part of the final development plan:
            (1) Final architectural plans.
            (2) Final engineering drawings.
            (3) Final development and construction schedule.
            (4) Final agreements, bylaws, provisions and covenants which govern
the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned unit development,
and any of its common open areas or other common facilities.
            (5) An accurate legal description of the entire area within the
planned unit development.
         (b) Planned Unit Developments With Subdivision: In addition to the
above requirements, any planned unit developments involving subdivision are
required to submit the following as part of the final development plan:
            (1) A final development plan suitable for recording with the county
recorder of deeds.
            (2) A subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same form of,
and meeting all requirements for, a normal subdivision plat.
            (3) Certificates, sales and signatures required for the dedication
of land and recording the document.
            (4) Tabulations of each separate unsubdivided area, including land
area and number of dwelling units per gross acre.
      3.   Final Development Plan Approval: The final development plan shall be
approved as follows:
         (a) Conformance With Preliminary Plan: The plan commission/zoning
board of appeals shall review the final development plan within thirty (30)
days of its submission in full to the village and shall recommend approval if
it is in substantial compliance with the preliminary development plan. The plan
commission/zoning board of appeals shall certify to the village board that the
final development plan is in conformance with the previously filed preliminary
development plan. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the plan commission/
zoning board of appeals' recommendation, the village board shall review the
final development plan and shall, if it is in conformity with the preliminary
development plan, authorize the planned unit development and special use.
         (b) Nonconformance With Preliminary Plan: The plan commission/zoning
board of appeals shall review the final development plan within thirty (30)
days of its submission in full to the village and if the final plan is
substantially changed from the approved preliminary plan, the plan commission/
zoning board of appeals shall recommend to the village board that the final
development plan be denied. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the plan
commission/zoning board of appeals' recommendation, the village board shall
review the final development plan and shall, if the final plan is held not to
be in conformity with the preliminary plan, inform the applicant with regard to
specific areas found not to be in compliance. The applicant may resubmit the
final development plan to the village board with changes to those areas found
not to be in conformance with the preliminary plan. The applicant may also
resubmit the plan as a preliminary plan in conformance with the procedures for
approval of a preliminary plan.
         (c) Approval: After the approval of the final development plan, the
use of the land and the construction, modification or alteration of any
buildings or structures within the planned unit development will be governed by
the approved final development plan rather than by any other provisions of this
title.
   (F)   Changes To The Planned Unit Development: No changes may be made in the
approved final development plan, except upon application to the village,
according to the following provisions:
      1.   During Construction: During the construction of the planned unit
development, the procedure shall be as follows:
         (a) Minor changes as required by engineering or other physical site
circumstances not foreseen at the time that the final development plan was
approved, and verified by the village engineer, may be authorized by the
village board. Any changes to the final development plan must be recorded as
amendments to the planned unit development ordinance. If changes are allowed in
a final site plan, then a new site plan reflecting such changes must be filed
with the village noting the date of the changes.
         (b) Major changes to the final development plan shall require
submittal of a new planned unit development application.
      2.   After Construction: After the completion of construction of the
planned unit development, the procedure shall be as follows:
         (a) Any minor extension, alteration or modification of existing
buildings or structures may be authorized by the plan commission/zoning board
of appeals, if they are consistent with the purpose and intent of the final
plan.
         (b) Any building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the final plan, unless
an amendment to the final plan is approved following the procedures for an
amendment.
         (c) All other changes in the final development plan must be made by
the village board, under the procedure authorized for an amendment. No changes
may be made in the final plan unless they are required for the continued
successful functioning of the planned unit development, or unless they are
required by changes in conditions that have occurred since the final
development plan was approved or by changes in the development policy of the
village.
   (G)   Conditions And Guarantees: Prior to granting any special uses, the
plan commission/zoning board of appeals may recommend, and the village board
shall stipulate, such conditions and restrictions upon the establishment,
location, construction, maintenance and operation of the planned unit
development as deemed necessary for the protection and requirements specified
herein, or as may be granted from time to time. In all cases in which planned
unit developments are granted, the village board shall require such evidence
and guarantees, as it may deem necessary, as proof that the conditions
stipulated in connection therewith are being, and will be, complied with.
   (H)   Termination Of A Planned Unit Development: If construction work on the
proposed planned unit development has not begun within eighteen (18) months
from the date of authorization by the village board, the authorization shall
become null and void. However, the applicant can request an extension, upon
his/her written application, filed prior to the termination of the eighteen
(18) month time limit. The village board may authorize a single extension of
not more than twelve (12) months without a public notice.
   (I)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-5: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   (A)   Purpose: The site plan review process promotes orderly development and
redevelopment in the village, and ensures such development or redevelopment
occurs in a manner that is harmonious with surrounding properties, is
consistent with the comprehensive plan, and promotes the general welfare of the
village. This section provides standards by which to determine and control the
physical layout and design to achieve the following purposes:
      1.   Compatibility of land uses, buildings, and structures.
      2.   Protection and enhancement of community property values.
      3.   Efficient use of land.
      4.   Minimization of traffic, safety hazards, and overcrowding problems.
      5.   Minimization of environmental problems.
   (B)   Applicability: Site plan review shall be required for every
application for a building permit, including those for new construction,
additions and site improvements, and all special uses. Parking lots of four (4)
or more spaces also require site plan review. No building permit shall be
issued unless and until site plan approval has been granted.
   (C)   Procedure:
      1.   Acceptance Of Application By Planning And Zoning Administrator:
Applications for site plan review shall be submitted to the planning and zoning
administrator in accordance with the requirements in section
6-3-1, "Application", of this title and shall be forwarded to the site plan
review committee.
      2.   Action By Site Plan Review Committee:
         (a) Applications for site plan review shall be reviewed by the site
plan review committee within twenty (20) days of the filing of the complete
site plan review application.
         (b) If, in the committee's judgment, the site plan review application
does not contain sufficient information to enable the committee to properly
discharge its responsibilities, the committee may request additional
information from the applicant. In that event, the twenty (20) day period shall
be suspended pending receipt of all information requested by the committee.
         (c) The site plan review committee may request modification of the
submitted site plan and resubmittal of such revised site plan. The revised site
plan shall be processed in the same manner as the initial site plan review
application.
         (d) The site plan review committee may approve the site plan subject
to certain conditions or minor modifications to be listed in the resolution
approving the application. All plans and drawings submitted as part of the
application for a building permit must include those conditions or minor
modifications stated within the resolution in order for a building permit to be
issued.
         (e) No building permit shall be issued until site plan approval has
been granted. If the site plan review committee approves a site plan, a
building permit may then be issued, provided that all other requirements of all
other applicable village codes and ordinances are satisfied.
         (f) If the site plan review committee denies a site plan review
application, the applicant may appeal the committee's decision to the village
board in accordance with section
6-4-10, "Appeals", of this chapter.
   (D)   Standards For Site Plan Review: The scope of site plan review includes
the location of principal and accessory structures, infrastructure, open space,
landscaping, exterior lighting, traffic movement and flow, number of parking
spaces, design of parking lots, and location of landscaping and screening. In
reviewing site plans, the relationship of the site plan to adopted land use
policies, and the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan shall be
evaluated. In addition, the following characteristics shall also be considered:
      1.   The arrangement of the structures and buildings on the site to:
         (a) Allow for the effective use of the proposed development.
         (b) Allow for the efficient use of the land.
         (c) Ensure compatibility with development on adjacent property.
         (d) Respond to off site utility and service conditions, and minimize
potential impacts on existing or planned municipal services, utilities, and
infrastructure.
         (e) Protect the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, and
general welfare.
         (f) Conform to the requirements of this title and other applicable
regulations.
      2.   The arrangement of open space or natural features on the site to:
         (a) Create a desirable and functional environment for patrons,
pedestrians, and occupants.
         (b) Preserve unique natural resources where possible.
         (c) Provide adequate measures to preserve existing healthy, mature
trees wherever practically feasible.
         (d) Respect desirable natural resources on adjacent sites.
         (e) Design drainage facilities to promote the use and preservation of
natural watercourses and patterns of drainage.
         (f) Avoid unnecessary or unreasonable alterations to existing
topography.
      3.   The organization of circulation systems to:
         (a) Provide adequate and safe access to the site.
         (b) Minimize potentially dangerous traffic movements.
         (c) Separate pedestrian and auto circulation and provide for bicycle
parking or storage insofar as practical.
         (d) Minimize curb cuts.
      4.   The design of off street parking lots or garages to:
         (a) Minimize adverse impacts on adjacent properties.
         (b) Promote logical and safe parking and internal circulation.
      5.   The design of landscape improvements and related features to:
         (a) Create a logical transition to adjoining lots and developments.
         (b) Screen incompatible uses.
         (c) Minimize the visual impact of the development on adjacent sites
and roadways.
         (d) Utilize plant materials suitable to withstand the climatic
conditions of the village and microclimate of the site.
         (e) Promote and enhance the appearance and image of the village.
      6.   Site illumination that is designed, located, and installed in a
manner that will minimize adverse impacts on adjacent properties.
      7.   Conformance of the proposed development with the goals and policies
of the comprehensive plan and all village codes and regulations.
   (E)   Consultants: The site plan review committee and the village board may
utilize the services of professional consultants for research, investigation,
and professional opinion in arriving at a recommendation or decision. The
applicant whose request requires the use of such professional services shall
reimburse to the village the reasonable cost it incurs in using such
professional services within ten (10) days of submission of the bill by the
village. Consultants include, but shall not be limited to, professionals in the
fields of engineering, law, planning, design, traffic design, finance, and
court reporters.
   (F)   Relation To Zoning Ordinance: The procedures in this section are not
intended to be a substitute for, or to have any bearing upon, any other
procedures required under this zoning ordinance.
   (G)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-6: BUILDING PERMIT:
Before proceeding with the erection, enlargement, alteration, repair, or
removal of any building or structure in the village, including the
construction, alteration or addition of any public parking facility providing
four (4) or more parking spaces, a building permit for such erection,
enlargement, alteration, repair, or removal shall first be obtained by the
owner or his agent. It shall be unlawful to proceed with the erection,
enlargement, alteration, repair, or removal of any building or any structural
part thereof unless such building permit shall first have been obtained in
accordance with section
7-1-1 of this code. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-7: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
   (A)   Applicability: No building or site shall be used or occupied, in whole
or in part, for any purpose, until an occupancy permit has been issued by the
village. An occupancy permit shall not be issued until pertinent requirements
are fulfilled or complied with, and the building commissioner conducts the
final inspection.
   (B)   Authority And Execution: The building commissioner shall be
responsible for determining compliance with this title and all other applicable
ordinances, prior to issuance of an occupancy permit. If approved, the
occupancy permit shall be issued within ten (10) days after the erection or
alteration of such building has been completed. A record of all certificates of
occupancy shall be kept on file in the office of the building commissioner and
copies shall be available on request to any person for a fee specified by the
village.
   (C)   Continuance Of Present Occupancy Of Existing Building: Nothing in this
section shall prevent the continuance of the present occupancy or use of any
existing building, except as may be deemed necessary for safety of life and
property.
   (D)   Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   Where a portion of a building may be safely occupied while pending
completion of the remainder of the building, the building commissioner may
issue a temporary occupancy permit to allow the premises to be occupied for the
proposed use. Such permit shall become final only upon full compliance with
this title and this code, and approval by the building commissioner.
      2.   Off street parking and loading facilities required by this title
shall be completed prior to the issuance of the occupancy permit for the use
they serve. If weather conditions do not permit such completion, the building
commissioner may issue a temporary occupancy permit. The off street parking and
loading facilities shall be completed prior to the issuance of the final
occupancy permit.
   (E)   Posting: The occupancy permit shall be dated and signed by the
building commissioner and shall identify the approved use or occupancy of the
building, site or structure. The permit shall state that the use or occupancy
complies with the terms of this title and all other village ordinances. Every
occupancy permit for a nonresidential use shall be permanently posted in a
prominent place on the premises at all times.
   (F)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-8: ZONING CERTIFICATE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of a zoning certificate is to promote ordinance
compliance by establishing a procedure for the village to certify that an
application complies with all standards of this title.
   (B)   Applicability: A zoning certificate must be issued before land can be
occupied or used and no building, structure, or sign shall be located,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, or structurally altered until a
certificate is issued stating that the proposed use, building, and site
improvements comply with the provisions of this title. A zoning certificate is
also required if there is a change of use in a building. A zoning certificate
shall be issued prior to issuance of a building permit or occupancy permit.
   (C)   Authority And Execution:
      1.   The planning and zoning administrator shall be responsible for
issuing zoning certificates.
      2.   Application for a zoning certificate for the construction of a new
building or for structural alteration of an existing building shall be made at
the same time as the application for a building permit. Application for a
zoning certificate for a change in the use of land or of a building, or for a
change in a nonconforming use, as herein provided, shall be made to the
planning and zoning administrator. Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of
an application, the planning and zoning administrator shall either approve or
disapprove the application.
   (D)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-9: SIGN PERMIT:
   (A)   Applicability: No sign, except those identified as exempt in chapter
13, "Signs", of this title, shall hereafter be erected, constructed, altered,
or relocated without first obtaining a sign permit.
   (B)   Authority And Execution: The building commissioner shall be
responsible for determining compliance with this title and issuing a sign
permit.
   (C)   Permit Issuance: Upon the filing of an application for a permit for
erection, alteration, or relocation of a sign the building commissioner shall:
      1.   Examine the plans and specifications and the premises upon which the
proposed structure shall be erected.
      2.   Issue a permit if the structure complies with the requirements of
this title and all other ordinances of the village. If the work authorized
under an erection permit is not completed within six (6) months after the date
of issuance, the permit becomes null and void.
   (D)   Approval Of Electrified Signs: The application for a sign permit for
the erection of a sign in which electrical wiring and connections are to be
used shall be submitted to the building commissioner, who shall forward the
specifications regarding all wiring and connections to the electrical
inspector. The electrical inspector shall examine the plans and specifications
to determine compliance with the electrical code of the village as a condition
of granting the sign permit.
   (E)   Inspection: The building commissioner may inspect at such times as he/
she deems necessary, but no more than annually, each sign or other advertising
structure regulated by this title for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
structure is secure or insecure, whether in need of repair or removal, or not
in conformance with the permit application or otherwise in violation of the
provisions of this title.
   (F)   Bond And Certificate Of Insurance:
      1.   Every applicant for a sign permit shall file with the building
commissioner, a permit bond of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), before the
permit is granted, executed by the applicant and with sureties approved by the
village board, conditioned on the faithful observance and performance of each
and every condition and provision of the sign permit and conditioned further to
indemnify, keep and save harmless the village against all liabilities,
judgments, costs, damages and expenses, which may in any way come against the
village as a consequence of granting the sign permit, or which may accrue
against, be charged to, or recovered from the village by reason of the
authority given in such permit. This bond shall be filed with the plans in the
office of the building commissioner. The bond and the liability of the sureties
thereon shall be kept in force throughout the life of the sign permit, and if,
at any time, it shall not be in full force, then the authority and privileges
thereby granted shall be terminated by the building commissioner.
      2.   A liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state of Illinois may be permitted in lieu of
a bond, provided the limits of liability shall not be less than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for property damage and one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) for public liability. A certificate of insurance under an
existing liability policy, which meets the above requirements, that will be
sufficient, provided the policy will have, as an additional insured, the
village and a certificate from the insurance company to that effect is filed
with the building commissioner.
   (G)   Revocation Of Permit: All rights and privileges acquired under the
provisions of this section, or any amendment thereto, are mere licenses
revocable at any time by the village board. Upon the termination or revocation
of the sign permit, the licensee shall remove the sign or other advertising
structure without cost or expense of any kind to the village. In the event of
the failure, neglect or refusal on the part of the licensee to do so, the
village may proceed to remove the same and charge the expense to the licensee.
   (H)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-10: APPEALS:
   (A)   Purpose: The zoning appeals process for review of decisions of the
planning and zoning administrator, building commissioner, or site plan review
committee is intended to provide appropriate checks and balances on
administrative authority.
   (B)   Initiation Of Appeals: Applications for appeals may be filed by the
owner of, or any person having a right of ownership in, any property in the
village that is directly affected by a decision made under this title by the
planning and zoning administrator, building commissioner, or site plan review
committee. All applications for appeals of building commissioner administrative
decisions shall be filed with the planning and zoning administrator in
accordance with the requirements in section
6-3-1, "Application", of this title. All applications for appeals of planning
and zoning administrator administrative decisions and of site plan review
committee decisions shall be filed with the village clerk in accordance with
the requirements in section
6-3-1, "Application", of this title.
   (C)   Authority And Execution: The plan commission/zoning board of appeals
shall take formal action on zoning appeals of planning and zoning administrator
and building commissioner administrative decisions. The village board shall
take formal action on appeals of site plan review committee decisions. Only the
decisions of the building commissioner on building permits, occupancy permits,
or sign permits, of the planning and zoning administrator on zoning
interpretations or zoning certificates, or of the site plan review committee on
site plan review applications can be appealed. Other duties, decisions, and
actions of the building commissioner or planning and zoning administrator,
which are not established by this title, cannot be appealed under this process.
   (D)   Procedure: The plan commission/zoning board of appeals or village
board shall hold a public hearing in accordance with section
6-3-2, "Public Hearing", of this title within a reasonable time, shall give
notice for the public hearing in accordance with section
6-3-3, "Public Notice", of this title and shall decide the appeal within a
reasonable time. At the hearing of the appeal, any party may appear in person,
or by agent or attorney. The plan commission/zoning board of appeals or village
board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination.
   (E)   Limitations On Appeals: A decision may only be appealed if an
application is filed within thirty (30) days of that decision.
   (F)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-11: ZONING INTERPRETATION:
   (A)   Purpose: The interpretation authority is intended to recognize that
the provisions of this title, though detailed and extensive, cannot, as a
practical matter, address every specific situation to which they may have to be
applied. Many such situations can be readily addressed by an interpretation of
the specific provisions of this title in light of the general and specific
provisions for which those provisions have been enacted. The interpretation
authority established herein is not intended to add or change the essential
content of this title, but is intended to only allow authoritative application
of that content to specific cases.
   (B)   Initiation Of Interpretations: Applications for zoning interpretations
may be filed by the owner of, or any person having a right of ownership in, any
property in the village, that gives rise to the need for an interpretation. In
addition, the village board, building commissioner, or other village official
may request that the planning and zoning administrator render an
interpretation. All applications for interpretations shall be filed with the
planning and zoning administrator in accordance with the requirements in
section
6-3-1, "Application", of this title. Requests initiated by the village require
an application, but are exempt from fees.
   (C)   Authority And Execution: The planning and zoning administrator shall
review and make final decisions on requests for interpretations.
   (D)   Procedure: The planning and zoning administrator shall review a
request for an interpretation within a reasonable time, and shall give due
notice thereof to the parties, and render the interpretation within a
reasonable time. The planning and zoning administrator shall have the ability
to request additional information prior to rendering an interpretation.
   (E)   Fees: Fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
village board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-4-12: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Enforcement: This title shall be enforced by the building
commissioner. The building commissioner may secure the assistance of the
village attorney to seek an injunction, abatement or other appropriate actions
to enjoin, abate, or stop any violation of this title. At times, the aid of the
police department may be sought to enforce this title. The property owner
charged with the violation may be held responsible for any legal expenses
incurred by the village.
   (B)   Penalties: Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this title, upon conviction, shall be fined for each
offense. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense for the purposes of the penalties and remedies available to the
village. The accumulation of penalties for violations, but not the obligation
for payment for violations already committed, shall cease upon correction of
the violation.
   (C)   Fines: Fines for violation of this title shall be established from
time to time by resolution of the village board and other appropriate sections
of this code. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
6-5-2: Zoning Map
6-5-3: Annexed Land
6-5-4: Essential Services
6-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the purpose and intent of this title, the village of
River Grove is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
   (A)   Residential districts:
      R1   Single-unit dwelling detached residential district
      R2   Single-unit dwelling attached residential district
      R3   Single- and multi-unit dwelling residential district
      R4   General residential district
   (B)   Commercial districts:
      C1   Mixed use storefront commercial district
      C2   Office and commercial district
      C3   Heavy commercial district
      C4   Shopping center commercial district
   (C)   Manufacturing districts:
      M1   Light manufacturing district
      M2   Medium manufacturing district
   (D)   Specific use districts:
      OS   Open space district
      G/E   Government and education district
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-5-2: ZONING MAP:
   (A)   Location Of Districts: The location and boundaries of the zoning
districts established by this title are set forth in the official zoning map,
as periodically amended. The official zoning map is hereby incorporated into,
and made an integral part of, this title.
It is the intent of this title that the entire area of the village, including
all land and water areas, be included in the zoning districts established by
this title. Any land lying within the village, but not shown on the official
zoning map as being included within a district, shall be deemed to be
classified as within the R1 single-unit dwelling detached residential district.
   (B)   Interpretation Of Boundary Lines:
      1.   Right Of Way Lines: Where zoning district boundary lines coincide
with streets, alleys, highways, easements, or right of way lines of railroads,
toll roads or expressways, the boundary line shall be construed to be the
centerline of said right of way.
      2.   Property Lines: Where zoning district boundary lines coincide with a
duly recorded property line, the property line shall be construed to be the
boundary line of the district.
      3.   Scaled Lines: Where the district boundary lines do not coincide with
a right of way line or duly recorded property line, the district boundary shall
be determined by measuring such boundary line(s) by using the map scale as
provided on the official zoning map.
      4.   Clarification Of Boundary Lines: The plan commission/zoning board of
appeals shall decide all interpretations of district boundary lines, where the
application of the aforesaid rules leaves a doubt as to the boundary between
two (2) zoning districts. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-5-3: ANNEXED LAND:
Any territory hereafter annexed into the village of River Grove shall
automatically, upon annexation, be classified in the R1 single-unit dwelling
detached residential district. Such land shall be subject to the requirements
of this R1 single-unit dwelling detached residential district, unless otherwise
provided for in the annexation agreement or until such territory is rezoned.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-5-4: ESSENTIAL SERVICES:
The following essential services are permitted to be erected, constructed,
altered, or maintained in any zoning district:
   (A)   Traffic signals, fire hydrants, and similar equipment and accessories.
   (B)   Gas, electric, communication, water supply, and transmission/
distribution systems.
   (C)   Elevated or underground water storage tanks.
   (D)   Storm and sanitary sewer collection and disposal systems.
   (E)   Utility poles, wires, mains, drains, pipes, conduits and cables
reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by public
utilities, municipal or other governmental agencies for the public health,
safety, convenience, comfort, and general welfare. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose Statements
6-6-2: Permitted And Special Uses
6-6-3: Yard And Bulk Regulations
6-6-4: General Standards Of Applicability
6-6-5: Existing Lots Of Record Of A Specific Size In The R1 District
6-6-6: Beulah Avenue Existing Lots Of Record
6-6-1: PURPOSE STATEMENTS:
   (A)   R1 Single-Unit Dwelling Detached Residential District: The purpose of
the R1 single-unit dwelling detached residential district is to provide for,
and preserve, single-unit residential development within the village. The R1
district provides for limited nonresidential uses that are compatible with
surrounding residential neighborhoods.
   (B)   R2 Single-Unit Dwelling Attached Residential District: The purpose of
the R-2 single-unit dwelling attached residential district is to provide for,
and preserve, two-unit and townhouse residential development, as well as
single-unit dwellings. The R-2 district also provides for limited
nonresidential uses that are compatible with surrounding residential
neighborhoods.
   (C)   R3 Single- and Multi-Unit Dwelling Residential District: The purpose
of the R3 single- and multi-unit dwelling residential district is to provide
for, and preserve, single-unit, two-unit, three-unit and townhouse residential
development, as well as multi-unit dwellings up to three (3) stories. The R3
district also provides for limited nonresidential uses that are compatible with
surrounding residential neighborhoods.
   (D)   R4 General Residential District: The purpose of the R4 general
residential district is to provide for, and preserve, quality higher density
residential development including multi- unit dwellings of four (4) or more
stories. The R4 district also provides for limited nonresidential uses that are
compatible with surrounding residential neighborhoods, and allows a number of
commercial uses as a special use. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-6-2: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
Table 3, "Residential District Permitted And Special Uses", of this section
lists permitted and special uses for the residential districts. A "P" indicates
that a use is considered permitted within that district. An "S" indicates that
a use is considered a special use in that district and must obtain a special
use permit as required in section
6-4-3, "Special Uses", of this title. No letter (i.e., a blank space), or the
absence of a use from the table, indicates that use is not permitted within
that district.
   TABLE 3
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES
   S = Special UseP = Permitted Use
    Zoning District Specific Use Standards
Use R1 R2 R3 R4
Residential Uses:
                                                Zoning District Specific Use
Use                                             R1 R2 R3 R4     Standards

Residential Uses:
   Dwelling, above ground floor of office or       P       
commercial
   Dwelling, multi-unit                          P  P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(A)1
   Dwelling, single-unit                     P  P  P  P       
   Dwelling, townhouse                         P  P  S      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(A)1
   Dwelling, three-unit                          P  P       
   Dwelling, two-unit                          P  P  P       
   Group home                                P  P  P  P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(A)2
   Live/work dwelling                              S      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(A)3
Cultural And Religious Uses:
   Convent/monastery                         P  P  P  P       
   Cultural facility                           S  S  P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(B)1
   Place of worship                          P  P  P  P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(B)2
Recreational And Entertainment Uses:
   Social club or lodge                      S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(C)3
Retail And Service Uses:
   Assisted living facility                        P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)2
   Daycare center, adult or child            S  S  P  P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)4
   Daycare home, adult or child              P  P  P  P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)5
   Financial institution                           P       
   Home occupation                           P  P  P  P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)8
   Independent living facility                   S  P      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)2
   Medical/dental office                           P       
   Nursing home                                    S      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)2
   Office business                                 P       
   Outdoor dining                                  S      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)12
   Personal services establishment                 S       
   Restaurant                                      S       
   Retail goods establishment                      S       
   Tavern/bar                                      S       
Other:
   Planned unit development                  S  S  S  S      Section
                                                                6-4-4
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P  P  P       
antenna
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P  P  P       
facility
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P  P  P       
   Wireless telecommunications antenna       S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(G)1
   Wireless telecommunications facility      S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(G)1
   Wireless telecommunications tower         S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(G)1
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 3-17-2025)
6-6-3: YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS: Table 4, "Residential District Yard And Bulk
Regulations", of this section establishes yard and bulk regulations for the
residential districts.
   TABLE 4
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS
 Zoning District
 R1 R2 R3 R4
                          Zoning District
                          R1                                                                           R2          R3         R4
Bulk Regulations:
   Lot area, minimum:
                          5,625 square feet
      Single-unit   Except:                                                                      3,750       3,750      3,750
dwelling                  1.   For existing lots of record with minimum lot width of 30 feet: 3,750 square feet square     square
                          square feet1                                                                             feet       feet
                          2.   For lots on Beulah Avenue: 3,000 square feet2
                                                                                                       3,750       3,750      3,750
      Two-unit dwell–                                                                          square feet square     square
                                                                                                                   feet       feet
                                                                                                       1,875       1,875      1,875
                                                                                                       square      square     square
      Townhouse dwel–g                                                                         feet/       feet/      feet/
                                                                                                       dwelling    dwelling   dwelling
                                                                                                       unit        unit       unit
                                                                                                                   4,375      4,375
      Three-unit dwe–ng                                                                        –         square     square
                                                                                                                   feet       feet
                                                                                                                   1,000      850 square
                                                                                                                   square     feet/
                                                                                                                   feet/      dwelling
                                                                                                                   dwelling   unit, but
      Multi-unit dwe–ng                                                                        –         unit but   no less
                                                                                                                   no less    than 6,250
                                                                                                                   than 6,250 square
                                                                                                                   square     feet
                                                                                                                   feet
                                                                                                       3,750       3,750      3,750
      Nonresidential5,625 square feet                                                            square feet square     square
                                                                                                                   feet       feet
   Lot width, minimum:
                          45 feet
      Single-unit   Except:                                                                      30 feet     30 feet    30 feet
dwelling                  1.   For existing lots of record with minimum lot area of 3,750 square feet1
                          2.   For lots on Beulah Avenue: 30 feet of lot frontage is required2
      Two-unit dwell–                                                                          30 feet     30 feet    30 feet
                                                                                                       15 feet/    15 feet/   15 feet/
      Townhouse dwel–g                                                                         dwelling    dwelling   dwelling
                                                                                                       unit        unit       unit
      Three-unit dwe–ng                                                                        –         35 feet    35 feet
      Multi-unit dwe–ng                                                                        –         50 feet    50 feet
      Nonresidential45 feet                                                                      30 feet     30 feet    30 feet
   Lot width, maximum  –                                                                          –         90 feet    120 feet
                                                                                                                   Single-    Single-
                                                                                                                   unit, two- unit, two-
                                                                                                                   unit or    unit or
                                                                                                                   townhouse: townhouse:
   Lot coverage, maximu50 percent                                                                   50 percent  50 percent 50 percent
                                                                                                                   Three-unit Three-unit
                                                                                                                   or multi-  or multi-
                                                                                                                   unit: 65   unit: 80
                                                                                                                   percent    percent
                                                                                                       32 feet, as
                                                                                                       measured in
                                                                                                       accordance
                                                                                                       with the
                                                                                                       definition
                                                                                                       for
   Building height,    32 feet, as measured in accordance with the definition for "building         "building   38 feet or
maximum                   height"; the height to the peak of a pitched roof shall not exceed 35 feet   height";    3 stories  45 feet
                                                                                                       the height
                                                                                                       to the peak
                                                                                                       of a
                                                                                                       pitched
                                                                                                       roof shall
                                                                                                       not exceed
                                                                                                       35 feet
Yard Regulations:
                                                                                                       Average of
                                                                                                       neighboring
                                                                                                       residences
                                                                                                       along the
                                                                                                       same
                                                                                                       blockface;
                          Average of neighboring residences along the same blockface; if less than 50  if less
   Front yard, minimum percent of the block is developed, then a minimum of 20 feet                 than 50     15 feet    10 feet
                                                                                                       percent of
                                                                                                       the block
                                                                                                       is
                                                                                                       developed,
                                                                                                       then a
                                                                                                       minimum of
                                                                                                       20 feet
                                                                                                                   Single-    Single-
                                                                                                                   unit, two- unit, two-
                                                                                                                   unit or    unit or
                                                                                                                   townhouse: townhouse:
   Rear yard, minimum  25 feet                                                                      25 feet     25 feet    25 feet
                                                                                                                   Three-unit Three-unit
                                                                                                                   or multi-  or multi-
                                                                                                                   unit: 20   unit: 20
                                                                                                                   feet       feet
                                                                                                                   10 percent 10 percent
                                                                                                                   of lot     of lot
                                                                                                                   width      width
                                                                                                                   For multi- For multi-
                                                                                                       10 percent  unit       unit
   Interior side yard, 10 percent of lot width                                                      of lot      dwellings: dwellings:
minimum                                                                                                width       10 percent 10 percent
                                                                                                                   of lot     of lot
                                                                                                                   width or   width or
                                                                                                                   10 feet,   10 feet,
                                                                                                                   whichever  whichever
                                                                                                                   is less    is less
   Corner side yard,                                                                                10 percent
minimum                   10 percent of lot width                                                      of lot      5 feet     10 feet
                                                                                                       width
Notes:
   1.   See section
6-6-5 of this chapter.
   2.   See section
6-6-6 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-6-4: GENERAL STANDARDS OF APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses: See section
6-11-3, "Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses", of this title for
standards covering accessory buildings, structures, and uses.
   (B)   Environmental Performance Standards: See section
6-11-5, "Environmental Performance Standards", of this title for standards
governing environmental performance standards.
   (C)   Landscaping And Screening: See chapter 14, "Landscaping And
Screening", of this title for standards governing landscaping and screening.
   (D)   Off Street Parking And Loading: See chapter 12, "Off Street Parking
And Loading", of this title for standards governing off street parking and
loading.
   (E)   Permitted Encroachments: See section
6-11-4, "Permitted Encroachments", of this title for standards governing
encroachments.
   (F)   Signs: See chapter 13, "Signs", of this title for standards governing
signs.
   (G)   Temporary Uses: See section
6-10-3, "Temporary Uses", of this title for standards governing temporary uses.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-6-5: EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD OF A SPECIFIC SIZE IN THE R1 DISTRICT:
This section regulates those existing lots of record of three thousand seven
hundred fifty (3,750) square feet or greater, but less than five thousand six
hundred twenty five (5,625) square feet, in the R1 district that exist on the
effective date hereof, which do not conform to the lot area and lot width
requirements of the R1 district in which they are located. No existing lot of
record of three thousand seven hundred fifty (3,750) square feet or greater,
but less than five thousand six hundred twenty five (5,625) square feet, in the
R1 district may be improved except in compliance with this section. All lots of
five thousand six hundred twenty five (5,625) square feet or more shall comply
with all requirements of the R1 district.
   (A)   Individual Lots Of Record: In the R1 district, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this title, a single-unit dwelling
may be erected on a single existing lot of record of three thousand seven
hundred fifty (3,750) square feet or greater, but less than five thousand six
hundred twenty five (5,625) square feet, provided that the lot is in separate
ownership and complies with the bulk and use standards of subsections (C) and
(D) of this section. Such existing lot of record and single-unit dwelling shall
be deemed conforming.
   (B)   Lots Of Record Held In Common Ownership: If on the effective date
hereof, in situations where there are two (2) or more lots of record with
continuous frontage in single ownership, and one or more of the lots having
contiguous frontage does not meet the requirements for lot width or lot area as
established by this title, the land so involved shall be considered to be a
single undivided parcel for the purposes of this title. No portion of said
parcel shall be used, transferred or conveyed which does not meet the lot width
and lot area requirements established by this title. No division of the parcel
shall be made which leaves the remaining lot(s) with lot width or lot area
below the requirements of this title. No building permit shall be issued for
the use of any lot, or portion of a lot, transferred or conveyed in violation
of this section.
   (C)   Bulk Standards: An existing lot of record of three thousand seven
hundred fifty (3,750) square feet or greater, but less than five thousand six
hundred twenty five (5,625) square feet, in the R1 district must maintain a
minimum lot width of thirty feet (30') or more. All yards and building heights
must comply with the regulations of the R1 district (see table 4 of this
chapter).
   (D)   Use Standards For Existing 3,750 Square Foot Lots Of Record: Only
single-unit dwellings shall be permitted on such lots.
   (E)   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: All other existing lots of record within
the R1 district that are less than three thousand seven hundred fifty (3,750)
square feet and/or less than thirty feet (30') in lot width shall be considered
nonconforming lots of record and shall comply with the requirements of section
6-15-5, "Nonconforming Lots Of Record", of this title except for those lots
exempted by section
6-6-6, "Beulah Avenue Existing Lots Of Record", of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-37,
12-21-2006)
6-6-6: BEULAH AVENUE EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD:
   (A)   Applicable Area: This section regulates those existing lots of record
on the 2900 block of Beulah Avenue, as bordered by Chestnut Avenue to the south
and Franklin Avenue to the north, that exist on the effective date hereof,
which do not conform to the lot area and lot width requirements of the R1
district in which they are located.
   (B)   Minimum Lot Size: Because of the angled configuration of such lots, in
order to be considered conforming, such existing lots of record are required to
meet a minimum lot frontage of thirty feet (30') and a minimum lot area of
three thousand (3,000) square feet. Lot frontage shall be the length of the
front lot line as measured along the street right of way from the intersection
of one side lot line to the intersection of the other side lot line, or in the
case of a corner lot, from the intersection of one side lot line to the
intersection of the corner side lot line.
   (C)   Individual Lots Of Record: In the R1 district, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this title, a single-unit dwelling
may be erected on a single existing lot of record along Beulah Avenue, in the
area defined by subsection (A) of this section, of three thousand (3,000)
square feet or greater but less than five thousand six hundred twenty five
(5,625) square feet, provided that the lot is in separate ownership and
complies with the bulk and use standards of subsections (E) and (F) of this
section. Such existing lot of record and single-unit dwelling shall be deemed
conforming.
   (D)   Such Lots Of Record Held In Common Ownership: If on the effective date
hereof, in situations where there are two (2) or more lots of record along
Beulah Avenue, in the area defined by subsection (A) of this section, with
continuous frontage in single ownership, and one or more of the lots having
contiguous frontage does not meet the requirements for lot width or lot area as
established by this title, the land so involved shall be considered to be a
single undivided parcel for the purposes of this title. No portion of said
parcel shall be used, transferred or conveyed which does not meet the lot width
and lot area requirements established by this title. No division of the parcel
shall be made which leaves the remaining lot(s) with lot width or lot area
below the requirements of this title. No building permit shall be issued for
the use of any lot, or portion of a lot, transferred or conveyed in violation
of this section.
   (E)   Bulk Standards: All yards and building heights must comply with the
regulations of the R1 district (see table 4 of this chapter).
   (F)   Use Standards: Only single-unit dwellings shall be permitted on such
lots.
   (G)   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: All other existing lots of record within
the R1 district along Beulah Avenue, in the area defined by subsection (A) of
this section, that are less than three thousand (3,000) square feet and/or less
than thirty feet (30') in lot frontage shall be considered nonconforming lots
of record and shall comply with the requirements of section
6-15-5, "Nonconforming Lots Of Record", of this title. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-
2006)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose Statements
6-7-2: Permitted And Special Uses
6-7-3: Yard And Bulk Regulations
6-7-4: C1 And C2 District Design Requirements
6-7-5: General Standards Of Applicability
6-7-1: PURPOSE STATEMENTS:
   (A)   C1 Mixed Use Storefront Commercial District: The purpose of the C1
mixed use storefront commercial district is to promote development of
storefront space and provide for a mix of retail, personal service, office and
residential uses. It should maintain a traditional village center character,
distinguished by ground floor commercial and a pedestrian orientation, with
storefronts opening to the public sidewalk. Residential dwelling units are only
permitted above the ground floor.
   (B)   C2 Office And Commercial District: The purpose of the C2 office and
commercial district is to preserve and provide for a mix of retail, personal
service and office uses. It should maintain a traditional village center
character, distinguished by ground floor storefronts and a pedestrian
orientation. The C2 district is distinct from the C1 district in that
residential dwelling units are allowed only as a special use above the ground
floor of commercial or office.
   (C)   C3 Heavy Commercial District: The purpose of the C3 heavy commercial
district is to preserve and provide for automobile oriented and heavy
commercial uses. Higher intensity multi-unit residential development is allowed
in these areas as a special use. Standards for the C3 district are designed to
maintain and enhance the appearance of these areas, and to provide adequate
buffering between any residential and commercial properties located within the
district.
   (D)   C4 Shopping Center Commercial District: The purpose of the C4 shopping
center commercial district is to preserve and provide for those retail uses
located within a shopping center environment, that serve the residents of the
village as well as surrounding areas. The C4 district provides for shopping
center development that generates a sizeable amount of traffic and a
significant demand for off street parking. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-7-2: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
Table 5, "Commercial District Permitted And Special Uses", of this section
lists permitted and special uses for the commercial districts. A "P" indicates
that a use is considered permitted within that district. An "S" indicates that
a use is considered a special use in that district and must receive special use
approval as required in section
6-4-3, "Special Uses", of this title. No letter (i.e., a blank space), or the
absence of a use from the table, indicates that use is not permitted within
that district. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
   TABLE 5
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES
 
S = Special Use P = Permitted Use
 
Use Zoning District Specific Use Standards Of This Title
    C1 C2 C3 C4
                                                    Zoning District Specific
                                                                    Use
Use                                                                 Standards
                                                    C1 C2 C3 C4     Of This
                                                                    Title

Residential uses:                                                
   Dwelling, above the ground floor of office or P  S  S         
commercial
   Dwelling, multi-unit                              S        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(A)1
   Live/work dwelling                            S  S  S        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(A)3
Cultural and religious uses:                                     
   Art gallery                                   P  P  P  P       
   Cultural facility                             S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(B)1
   Place of worship                              S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(B)2
Recreational and entertainment uses:                             
   Indoor entertainment                          P  P  P  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(C)1
   Indoor recreation                             P  P  P  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(C)1
   Live entertainment                            P  P  P  P       
   Outdoor entertainment                         S  S  P  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(C)2
   Outdoor recreation                            S  S  P  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(C)2
   Social club or lodge                          S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(C)3
Retail and service uses:                                         
   Animal hospital                               S  S  P         
   Assisted living facility                      S  S  S        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)2
   Car wash                                          P  S       
   Currency exchange                             S  S  S        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)3
   Daycare center, adult or child                P  P  P  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)4
   Daycare home, adult or child                  P  P  S        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)5
   Drive-through facility                          S  S  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)6
   Financial institution                         P  P  P  P       
   Gas station                                       P  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)7
   Greenhouse/nursery                                P  S       
   Heavy retail and service                          P  S       
   Home occupation                               P  P  P        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)8
   Hospital                                          S  S       
   Hotel/motel                                   S  S  S  S       
   Independent living facility                   S  S  S  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)2
   Kennel                                            S  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)9
   Medical/dental clinic                         S  S  P  P       
   Motor vehicle dealership                          P  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)10
   Motor vehicle rental establishment                P        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)10
   Motor vehicle service and repair, major           P        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)11
   Motor vehicle service and repair, minor       S    P  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)11
   Office business                               P  P  P  P       
   Outdoor dining                                P  P  P  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)12
   Payday or title loan agency                   S  S  S        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(D)13
   Personal services establishment               P  P  P  P       
   Restaurant                                    P  P  P  P       
   Retail goods establishment                    P  P  P  P       
   Tavern/bar                                    P  P  P  P       
Transportation uses:                                             
   Motor vehicle operations facility                 P        Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(E)1
   Parking lot                                   S  S  S  P       
   Parking structure                             S  S  S  P      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(E)2
   Passenger terminal                            S  S  P  P       
Manufacturing, storage and research uses:                        
   Miniwarehouse                                     S         
Other:                                                           
   Planned unit development                      S  S  S  S      Section
                                                                    6-4-4
   Public safety wireless telecommunications     P  P  P  P       
antenna
   Public safety wireless telecommunications     P  P  P  P       
facility
   Public safety wireless telecommunications     P  P  P  P       
   Wireless telecommunications antenna           S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(G)1
   Wireless telecommunications facility          S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(G)1
   Wireless telecommunications tower             S  S  S  S      Subsection
                                                                    6-10-2(G)1
 
(Ord. 2011-14, 5-19-2011; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 3-17-2025)
6-7-3: YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS:
Table 6, "Commercial District Yard And Bulk Regulations", of this section
establishes yard and bulk regulations for the commercial districts.
   TABLE 6
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS
 Zoning District
 C11 C21 C3 C4
                                                                            Zoning District
                                                                            C11       C21       C3   C4
Bulk Regulations:
   Lot area, minimum                                                     None      None      None None
   Lot width, minimum                                                    None      None      None None
   Building height, maximum                                              45 feet   45 feet   45   45
                                                                                                feet feet
Yard Regulations:
                                                                            None;     None;
                                                                            where     where
                                                                            front     front
                                                                            yard is   yard is
   Front yard, minimum                                                   provided, provided, None 25
                                                                            limited   limited        feet
                                                                            to a      to a
                                                                            maximum   maximum
                                                                            of 10     of 10
                                                                            feet      feet
   Rear yard, minimum                                                    None      None      None 25
                                                                                                     feet
   Rear yard, minimum - nonresidential use abutting residential use or   15 feet   15 feet   20   25
district2                                                                                       feet feet
   Interior side yard, minimum                                           None      None      None 25
                                                                                                     feet
   Interior side yard, minimum - nonresidential use abutting residential 5 feet    5 feet    10   25
use or district                                                                                 feet feet
   Corner side yard, minimum                                             None      None      None 25
                                                                                                     feet
 
Notes:
   1.   All new construction in the C1 and C2 districts shall comply with the
design requirements of section
6-7-4, "C1 And C2 District Design Requirements", of this chapter.
   2.   In the C1, C2 or C3 district, rear yard is not required where an alley
is located between commercial use and residential use or district.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-7-4: C1 AND C2 DISTRICT DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
The following design requirements shall apply to new construction within the C1
and C2 districts. Where a requirement uses the term "should", that standard is
encouraged but is not mandatory; where a requirement uses the term "shall",
that standard shall be required.
   (A)   Commercial store frontages within the C1 and C2 districts shall be
transparent for no less than sixty percent (60%) of the front facade. Windows
shall be constructed of clear glass (no tinted or reflective glass).
   (B)   Predominant facade colors shall be subtle, neutral or earth tone
colors. Primary colors, high intensity colors, metallic or fluorescent colors,
and black are prohibited as predominant facade colors. Building trim and accent
areas may be brighter and include primary colors.
   (C)   Where a front yard is provided, such yard should be designed as an
outdoor seating area, when appropriate. If an outdoor seating area is not
appropriate for the use, such front yard shall be landscaped.
   (D)   All buildings shall have a public entrance on any facade located with
frontage on a public sidewalk. Such public entrances shall be articulated from
the building mass. Examples of such articulation include: canopies or porticos,
overhangs, arcades, raised corniced parapets over the door, peaked roof forms,
arches, outdoor patio or seating areas, display windows, details such as tile
work and moldings integrated into the building design, and integral planters or
wing walls that include landscaping or seating. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-7-5: GENERAL STANDARDS OF APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses: See section
6-11-3, "Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses", of this title for
standards covering accessory buildings, structures, and uses.
   (B)   Environmental Performance Standards: See section
6-11-5, "Environmental Performance Standards", of this title for standards
governing environmental performance standards.
   (C)   Landscaping And Screening: See chapter 14, "Landscaping And
Screening", of this title for standards governing landscaping and screening.
   (D)   Off Street Parking And Loading: See chapter 12, "Off Street Parking
And Loading", of this title for standards governing off street parking and
loading.
   (E)   Permitted Encroachments: See section
6-11-4, "Permitted Encroachments", of this title for standards governing
encroachments.
   (F)   Signs: See chapter 13, "Signs", of this title for standards governing
signs.
   (G)   Temporary Uses: See section
6-10-3, "Temporary Uses", of this title for standards governing temporary uses.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 8
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Purpose Statements
6-8-2: Permitted And Special Uses
6-8-3: Yard And Bulk Regulations
6-8-4: General Standards Of Applicability
6-8-1: PURPOSE STATEMENTS:
   (A)   M1 Light Manufacturing District: The purpose of the M1 light
manufacturing district is to provide for low intensity, nonnuisance light
fabrication and assembly type manufacturing, as well as warehousing, storage,
office, and research and development facilities. Development standards are
intended to buffer multi-unit residential dwellings located within the district
from the impacts of these light manufacturing uses.
   (B)   M2 Medium Manufacturing District: The purpose of the M2 medium
manufacturing district is to permit higher intensity manufacturing uses, and
warehouse and storage uses. Medium intensity manufacturing may produce moderate
external effects such as smoke, noise, glare or vibration. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-
21-2006)
6-8-2: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
Table 7, "Manufacturing Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this section
lists permitted and special uses for the manufacturing districts. A "P"
indicates that a use is considered permitted within that district. An "S"
indicates that a use is considered a special use in that district and must
receive special use approval as required in section
6-4-3, "Special Uses", of this title. No letter (i.e., a blank space), or the
absence of a use from the table, indicates that use is not permitted within
that district.
   TABLE 7
   MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES
   S = Special UseP = Permitted Use
                  Zoning District Specific Use
Use               M1 M2           Standards

Residential Uses:
                                                Zoning District Specific Use
Use                                             M1 M2           Standards

Residential Uses:
   Dwelling, multi-unit                      S              Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(A)1
   Live/work dwelling                        S              Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(A)3
Retail And Service Uses:                                       
   Adult use                                   S            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)1
   Heavy retail and service                  P  P             
   Home occupation                           P              Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)8
   Motor vehicle service and repair, major   P  P            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)11
   Motor vehicle service and repair, minor   P  S            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)11
   Office business                           P  P             
   Tattoo parlor and/or body piercing studio   S            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(D)14
Transportation Uses:                                           
   Cargo terminal                            P  P             
   Motor vehicle operations facility         P  P            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(E)1
   Parking lot                               S  P             
   Parking structure                         S  S            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(E)2
   Passenger terminal                        S  S             
Manufacturing, Storage And Research Uses:
   Manufacturing, light                      P  P            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(F)1
   Manufacturing, medium                       P            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(F)1
   Miniwarehouse                             P               
   Research and development facility         P  P             
   Warehouse/distribution                    P  P             
Other:                                                         
   Planned unit development                  S  S            Section
                                                                6-4-4
   Telecom hotel                             S  S             
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P             
antenna
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P             
facility
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P             
   Wireless telecommunications antenna       S  S            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(G)1
   Wireless telecommunications facility      S  S            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(G)1
   Wireless telecommunications tower         S  S            Subsection
                                                                6-10-2(G)1
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 3-17-2025)
6-8-3: YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS:
Table 8, "Manufacturing Districts Yard And Bulk Regulations", of this section
establishes yard and bulk regulations for the manufacturing districts.
   TABLE 8
   MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS
 M1 M2
                               M1                          M2
Bulk Regulations:
   Lot area, minimum        6,250 square feet           12,500 square feet
   Lot width, minimum       50 feet                     100 feet
   Building height, maximum145 feet                     45 feet
Yard Regulations:
   Front yard, minimum      10 feet                     20 feet
   Rear yard, minimum       Nonresidential use: 10 feet 25 feet
                               Residential use: 20 feet
   Interior side yard, minim10 feet                     10 feet
   Corner side yard, minimum10 feet                     15 feet
 
Note:
   1.   Chimneys, stacks, elevator bulkheads, cooling/water/stage towers and
mechanical appurtenances may extend to a height of 55 feet.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-8-4: GENERAL STANDARDS OF APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses: See section
6-11-3, "Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses", of this title for
standards covering accessory buildings, structures, and uses.
   (B)   Environmental Performance Standards: See section
6-11-5, "Environmental Performance Standards", of this title for standards
governing environmental performance standards.
   (C)   Landscaping And Screening: See chapter 14, "Landscaping And
Screening", of this title for standards governing landscaping and screening.
   (D)   Off Street Parking And Loading: See chapter 12, "Off Street Parking
And Loading", of this title for standards governing off street parking and
loading.
   (E)   Permitted Encroachments: See section
6-11-4, "Permitted Encroachments", of this title for standards governing
encroachments.
   (F)   Signs: See chapter 13, "Signs", of this title for standards governing
signs.
   (G)   Temporary Uses: See section
6-10-3, "Temporary Uses", of this title for standards governing temporary uses.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIFIC USE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Purpose Statements
6-9-2: Permitted And Special Uses
6-9-3: Yard And Bulk Regulations
6-9-4: General Standards Of Applicability
6-9-1: PURPOSE STATEMENTS:
   (A)   OS Open Space District: The purpose of the OS open space district is
to provide and protect publicly and privately owned open space, natural areas,
and passive and active recreation facilities that serve the village and
surrounding region.
   (B)   G/E Government And Education District: The purpose of the G/
E government and education district is to accommodate governmental and
educational institutions and facilities that serve the village and the region.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-9-2: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
Table 9, "Specific Use Districts Permitted And Special Uses", of this section
lists permitted and special uses for the specific use districts. A "P"
indicates that a use is considered permitted within that district. An "S"
indicates that a use is considered a special use in that district and must
receive special use approval as required in section
6-4-3, "Special Uses", of this title. No letter (i.e., a blank space), or the
absence of a use from the table, indicates that use is not permitted within
that district.
   TABLE 9
   SPECIFIC USE DISTRICTS PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES
   S = Special UseP = Permitted Use
Use OS G/E Specific Use Standards
Use                                             OS G/E Specific Use Standards
Governmental And Educational Uses:                    
   Educational facilities, college/university  P    
   Educational facilities, primary/secondary1  P    
   Educational facilities, vocational school   P    
   Government facility                         P    
   Public safety facility                      P    
   Public works facility                       P    
Open Space Uses:                                      
   Cemetery                                  P      
   Country club                              S      
   Driving range                             P      
   Forest preserve                           P      
   Golf course                               P      
   Park                                      P      
   Zoo                                       P      
Other:                                                
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P    
antenna
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P    
facility
   Public safety wireless telecommunications P  P    
   Wireless telecommunications antenna       S  S   Subsection
                                                       6-10-2(G)1
   Wireless telecommunications facility      S  S   Subsection
                                                       6-10-2(G)1
   Wireless telecommunications tower         S  S   Subsection
                                                       6-10-2(G)1
 
Note:
   1.   "Places of worship" with educational facilities, whether primary or
secondary, shall be classified as "educational facilities, primary/secondary"
and subject to the requirements for such in the G/E district. In such case, the
associated "place of worship" shall also be considered a permitted use. "Places
of worship" with daycare facilities or weekly religious instruction shall not
be considered an "educational facilities, primary/secondary", but rather only a
"place of worship" and not included in the G/E district.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 3-17-2025)
6-9-3: YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS:
Table 10, "Specific Use Districts Yard And Bulk Regulations", of this section
establishes yard and bulk regulations for the specific use districts.
   TABLE 10
   SPECIFIC USE DISTRICTS YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS
 OS G/E
                               OS      G/E
Bulk Regulations:
   Lot area, minimum        None    None
   Lot width, minimum       None    None
   Building height, maximum 35 feet 60 feet
Yard Regulations1:
   Front yard, minimum      20 feet 20 feet
   Rear yard, minimum       25 feet 25 feet
   Interior side yard, minim10 feet 10 feet
   Corner side yard, minimum15 feet 15 feet
 
Note:
   1.   For the OS district, yard regulations apply only to those uses with
buildings or structures.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-9-4: GENERAL STANDARDS OF APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses: See section
6-11-3, "Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses", of this title for
standards covering accessory buildings, structures, and uses.
   (B)   Environmental Performance Standards: See section
6-11-5, "Environmental Performance Standards", of this title for standards
governing environmental performance standards.
   (C)   Landscaping And Screening: See chapter 14, "Landscaping And
Screening", of this title for standards governing landscaping and screening.
   (D)   Off Street Parking And Loading: See chapter 12, "Off Street Parking
And Loading", of this title for standards governing off street parking and
loading.
   (E)   Permitted Encroachments: See section
6-11-4, "Permitted Encroachments", of this title for standards governing
encroachments.
   (F)   Signs: See chapter 13, "Signs", of this title for standards governing
signs.
   (G)   Temporary Uses: See section
6-10-3, "Temporary Uses", of this title for standards governing temporary uses.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 10
USE STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-10-1: Use Of Land And Buildings
6-10-2: Use Standards Enumerated
6-10-3: Temporary Uses
6-10-1: USE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS:
No building, structure, or premises shall be used or occupied except in
conformity with the regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
No building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed, extended, enlarged,
altered, or moved except in conformity with the regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-10-2: USE STANDARDS ENUMERATED:
In addition to the use standards below, all uses are required to comply with
the provisions of this title including, but not limited to, chapter 11, "Site
Development Standards", chapter 12, "Off Street Parking And Loading", chapter
13, "Signs", and chapter 14, "Landscaping And Screening", of this title, as
well as all applicable village ordinances.
   (A)   Residential Uses:
      1.   Dwelling, Multi-Unit And Dwelling, Townhouse:
         (a) All townhouse developments and multi-unit dwellings shall be
designed with the front facade facing the street. When the side walls of a
townhouse development and multi-unit dwelling also face the street, building
facades shall be designed with elements of a front facade, including doors and/
or windows, to avoid the appearance of blank walls.
         (b) There shall be a minimum separation of ten feet (10') between side
walls among rows of townhouse developments and multi-unit dwellings. (See
figure 1, "Sidewall Separation", of this section.) Where the front or rear wall
of a row of townhouse developments and multi-unit dwellings faces the front or
rear wall of another row of townhouse developments and multi-unit dwellings,
the minimum required separation between such buildings shall be a minimum of
thirty feet (30'). Driveways and parking areas may be located within this
minimum separation area. The minimum separation at the ground floor may be
reduced to twenty feet (20') for interior drives with garage doors facing
garage doors, provided that the upper story living spaces comply with the
thirty foot (30') separation requirements. (See figure 2, "Upper Floor
Separation", of this section.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4485.png]
 
         (c) No more than six (6) townhouse dwelling units shall be attached to
one another in a row.
         (d) Townhouses should be designed with either detached garages located
in the rear yard, or attached garages oriented to the rear or side of the
units.
         (e) Private yards a minimum of two hundred (200) square feet in area
shall be required for each townhouse dwelling unit. This private yard may be
located adjacent to a front wall, rear wall, or side wall, provided that it is
immediately adjacent to the townhouse unit it serves and directly accessible
from the townhouse unit by way of a door or stair. Required private yards must
be at grade or, if located on a terrace or patio, within four feet (4') of
grade. All private yards must be landscaped with turf, ground cover, shrubs,
trees or other landscape improvements, including hardscape such as patios.
      2.   Group Home: Group homes shall meet all federal, state and local
requirements including, but not limited to, licensing, health, safety and
building code requirements. In addition, the following criteria shall be
considered:
         (a) The cumulative effect of such uses will not alter the residential
character of the neighborhood.
         (b) The facility shall retain a residential, rather than
institutional, character.
         (c) The operation of the facility shall not adversely impact
surrounding properties.
         (d) Each operator shall make available to the village fire department
and police department, upon request, a list indicating the names, addresses and
phone numbers of all residents within the group home.
      3.   Live/Work Dwelling: Any use permitted in the district in which the
live/work dwelling is located is permitted as part of the live/work dwelling.
In addition, arts related activities, such as painting, photography, sculpture,
music and film, conducted within a dwelling and where one-third (1/3) of the
gross floor area is devoted to such work or studio space are also permitted.
All live/work dwellings are subject to the standards for the individual uses
contained within this section and this title, as well as the requirements of
section
6-11-5, "Environmental Performance Standards", of this title.
   (B)   Cultural And Religious Uses:
      1.   Cultural Facility: Cultural facilities shall be designed so that the
location of entrances and exits, exterior lighting, service areas, and parking
and loading facilities will minimize traffic congestion, pedestrian hazards,
and adverse impacts on adjoining properties.
      2.   Place Of Worship: Places of worship shall be designed so that the
location of entrances and exits, exterior lighting, service areas, and parking
and loading facilities will minimize traffic congestion, pedestrian hazards,
and adverse impacts on adjoining properties.
   (C)   Recreational And Entertainment Uses:
      1.   Indoor Entertainment And Indoor Recreation: Indoor entertainment and
indoor recreation facilities shall be designed so that the location of
entrances and exits, exterior lighting, service areas, and parking and loading
facilities will minimize traffic congestion, pedestrian hazards, and adverse
impacts on adjoining properties.
      2.   Outdoor Entertainment And Outdoor Recreation: Outdoor entertainment
and outdoor recreation facilities shall be designed so that the location of
entrances and exits, exterior lighting, service areas, and parking and loading
facilities will minimize traffic congestion, pedestrian hazards, and adverse
impacts on adjoining properties.
      3.   Social Club Or Lodge:
         (a) Social clubs or lodges shall be designed so that the location of
entrances and exits, exterior lighting, service areas, and parking and loading
facilities will minimize traffic congestion, pedestrian hazards, and adverse
impacts on adjoining properties.
         (b) No more than twenty percent (20%) of the gross floor area may be
used as office space.
         (c) Social clubs and lodges are permitted to serve food and meals on
the premises provided that adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities
are available.
         (d) The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests is
permitted provided it is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some
other common objective by the organization, and further provided that such sale
of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with all applicable federal, state and
local laws.
   (D)   Retail And Service Uses:
      1.   Adult Use: Adult uses shall be subject to the following standards:
         (a) No adult use shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
any residential district, school, place of worship, or other adult use.
         (b) The adult use shall be so designed, located and proposed to be
operated so that the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare will be protected.
         (c) It shall not cause substantial injury to the value of other
property in the neighborhood in which it is located.
         (d) It shall not unduly increase traffic congestion in the public
streets and highways in the area in which it is located.
         (e) It shall not cause additional public expense for fire or police
protection.
         (f) No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the
observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" from any public way or from
any adjacent property. This provision shall apply to any display, decoration,
sign, show window or other opening.
      2.   Assisted Living Facility, Independent Living Facility, And Nursing
Home: Assisted living facilities, independent living facilities, and nursing
homes shall meet all federal, state and local requirements including, but not
limited to, licensing, health, safety and building code requirements. Upon
request, each operator shall provide the village fire department and/or police
department a list of all residents of the facility. In addition, the following
criteria shall be considered:
         (a) The location, design, and operating characteristics of the
facility shall be compatible with, and shall not adversely affect, adjacent
properties and the surrounding area.
         (b) The facility shall be harmonious with surrounding buildings with
respect to scale, architectural design, and building placement.
         (c) The street network shall be capable of accommodating the traffic
generated by the facility.
      3.   Currency Exchange: Currency exchanges shall be located one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') from any existing currency exchange or payday or
title loan agency.
      4.   Daycare Center, Adult And Daycare Center, Child: Daycare centers
shall meet all federal, state and local requirements including, but not limited
to, licensing, health, safety and building code requirements. Upon request of
the village fire department and/or police department, each operator shall
provide the village fire department and/or police department a list of all
adults or children being cared for, including names, addresses and phone
numbers. In addition, the following criteria shall be considered:
         (a) The provision of adequate on site drop off zones, sidewalks, and
exterior lighting.
         (b) The amount of traffic or noise to be generated.
         (c) The provision of adequate open space.
      5.   Daycare Home, Adult And Daycare Home, Child: Daycare homes shall
meet all federal, state and local requirements including, but not limited to,
licensing, health, safety and building code requirements. Upon request of the
village fire department and/or police department, each operator shall provide
the village fire department and/or police department a list of all adults or
children being cared for, including names, addresses and phone numbers. In
addition, the following criteria shall be considered:
         (a) The provision of adequate on site drop off zones, sidewalks, and
exterior lighting.
         (b) The amount of traffic or noise to be generated.
         (c) The provision of adequate open space.
         (d) The daycare home shall retain a residential character and the
effect of the daycare home will not alter the residential character of the
neighborhood.
         (e) The operation of the daycare home shall not adversely impact
surrounding properties.
      6.   Drive-Through Facility: A drive-through facility is considered a
separate use, rather than accessory to the principal use. For the purposes of
this title, car washes, gas stations and motor vehicle service and repair
facilities shall be exempt from the following standards.
         (a) Drive-through facilities shall provide adequate stacking spaces,
in accordance with chapter 12, "Off Street Parking And Loading", of this title.
         (b) All drive-through lanes must be located and designed to ensure
that they will not adversely affect the safety and efficiency of traffic
circulation on adjoining streets.
         (c) The volume on all intercom menu displays shall be maintained at a
level so as not to create a public nuisance for adjoining residential
districts.
         (d) The operator of the drive-through facility shall provide adequate
on site outdoor waste receptacles and shall provide daily litter cleanup along
the rights of way abutting the property.
      7.   Gas Station:
         (a) Gas station canopies shall be designed with luminaires recessed
under the canopy to minimize light pollution. Light intensity directly under
the canopy shall not exceed ten (10) foot-candles at any location. All lighting
mounted under the canopy, including auxiliary lighting within signage and
panels over the pumps, shall be included in the ten (10) foot-candle limit.
         (b) All gas station driveways must be located and designed to ensure
that they will not adversely affect the safety and efficiency of traffic
circulation on adjoining streets.
         (c) Gas stations may offer convenience items for sale as a secondary
activity and may also include an automatic car wash.
         (d) In addition, gas stations may be included as part of a minor motor
vehicle repair and service shop. These gas stations shall be subject to the
provisions of this section and the standards of subsection (D)11 of this
section.
      8.   Home Occupation: The following standards are intended to ensure that
home occupations, conducted in a dwelling unit, are compatible with the
neighborhoods in which they are located and do not interfere with the rights of
the surrounding property owners to enjoy the established character of the
neighborhood:
         (a) The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the
dwelling unit.
         (b) A home occupation shall not be established prior to the member(s)
of the family conducting the home occupation taking possession of, and residing
in, the dwelling unit.
         (c) Only one nonresident of the premises may be employed to work at or
from the premises.
         (d) The home occupation shall not generate excessive vehicular or
pedestrian customer traffic.
         (e) A home occupation shall not generate noise, solid waste,
vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference beyond what normally
occurs in a residential use.
         (f) No outside storage or display of materials, merchandise, inventory
or heavy equipment shall be permitted.
         (g) No exterior building signs shall be permitted unless authorized by
the sign regulations for the district.
         (h) Any type of motor vehicle service and repair is a prohibited home
occupation.
         (i) Daycare homes are not considered a home occupation and are subject
to the standards of subsection (D)5, "Daycare Home, Adult And Daycare Home,
Child", of this section.
      9.   Kennel:
         (a) Enclosures and runs shall provide protection against weather
extremes. Floors of runs shall be made of impervious material to permit proper
cleaning and disinfecting.
         (b) Kennels shall provide an exercise area of a size equal to that
required by the maximum number of animals that can be kept on premises at one
time.
         (c) All animal quarters and runs are to be kept in a clean, dry, and
sanitary condition.
         (d) Fencing surrounding exercise areas and/or runs shall be of a
sufficient height to discourage jumping and shall be buried (as part of
installation) to discourage digging beneath the fence posts.
      10.   Motor Vehicle Dealership And Motor Vehicle Rental Establishment:
Newly established motor vehicle dealerships or rental establishments shall have
a minimum lot size of fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
      11.   Motor Vehicle Service And Repair, Major And Motor Vehicle Service
And Repair, Minor:
         (a) Minor motor vehicle service and repair shops may not store the
same vehicles outdoors on the site for longer than five (5) days. Major motor
vehicle service and repair shops may not store the same vehicles outdoors on
the site for longer than thirty (30) days.
         (b) All driveways must be located and designed to ensure that they
will not adversely affect the safety and efficiency of traffic circulation on
adjoining streets.
         (c) All repair operations shall be fully enclosed. Wrecked or junked
vehicles shall not be stored for longer time periods than those specified above
and shall be screened from the public right of way and any adjacent residential
districts.
         (d) Minor motor vehicle service and repair shops may also include gas
stations as a secondary use. All gas stations which are part of such an
establishment must comply with the regulations of subsection (D)7, "Gas
Station", of this section.
      12.   Outdoor Dining: Outdoor dining is considered a separate use, rather
than accessory to the principal use.
         (a) Outdoor dining areas shall not interfere with the use of parking
spaces and aisles.
         (b) Outdoor dining areas shall not be located in any required yard
that abuts a residential use or district, unless an alley is located between an
abutting commercial use and a residential use or district.
         (c) Outdoor dining is permitted on a public sidewalk, subject to
approval by the planning and zoning administrator. Any property owner
requesting an outdoor dining area on a public sidewalk shall provide proof of
insurance, naming the village as additionally insured in the form and amount
acceptable to the village attorney.
      13.   Payday Or Title Loan Agency: Payday or title loan agencies shall be
located one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') from any existing payday or
title loan agency or currency exchange.
      14.   Tattoo Parlors And/Or Body Piercing Studios: Tattoo parlors and/or
body piercing studios shall be subject to the following standards:
         (a) Tattoo parlors and/or body piercing studios shall comply with all
state, county and municipal regulations.
         (b) No tattoo parlor and/or body piercing studio shall be located
within one thousand feet (1,000') of any residential district, school, or other
tattoo parlor and/or body piercing studio.
   (E)   Transportation Uses:
      1.   Motor Vehicle Operations Facility: All repair operations and service
bays shall be fully enclosed.
      2.   Parking Structure:
         (a) Parking structures located in the C1 or C2 district shall be faced
with commercial uses along seventy five percent (75%) of the length of the
facade adjacent to the public right of way.
         (b) Where there is no storefront, parking structures shall provide a
landscaped yard of ten feet (10') along any facade adjacent to a public right
of way.
   (F)   Manufacturing, Storage And Research Uses:
      1.   Manufacturing, Light And Manufacturing, Medium: All manufacturing
activities shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
   (G)   Other:
      1.   Wireless Telecommunications Antenna, Facility And Tower:
         (a) Purpose: The following standards for wireless telecommunications
antennas, facilities, and towers are intended to:
            (1) Ensure public health, safety, convenience, comfort, and general
welfare.
            (2) Ensure access to reliable wireless telecommunications services
throughout all areas of River Grove.
            (3) Encourage the use of existing towers and other structures for
the collocation of wireless telecommunications antennas.
            (4) Encourage the location of towers, to the extent possible, in
areas where the adverse impact on the village will be minimal and preferably in
nonresidential, as opposed to residential, districts.
            (5) Minimize the potential adverse effects associated with the
construction of wireless telecommunications towers through the implementation
of reasonable design, landscaping, and construction practices.
         (b) Application Requirements: In addition to the requirements for a
special use permit, all applications to erect, construct or modify any part of
a wireless telecommunications antenna, facility, or tower shall include the
following items, unless waived by the village:
            (1) A site plan showing:
               A.The location, size, screening, and design of all buildings and
structures, including fences.
               B.The location and size of all outdoor equipment.
               C.The location, number, and species of proposed landscaping.
            (2) A maintenance plan, and any applicable maintenance agreement,
designed to ensure long term, continuous maintenance to a reasonably prudent
standard.
            (3) A disclosure of what is proposed, demonstrating the need for
the proposed wireless telecommunications tower to be located as proposed based
upon one or more of the following factors:
               A.Proximity to a major thoroughfare.
               B.Areas of population concentration.
               C.Concentration of commercial or other business centers.
               D.Areas where signal interference has occurred due to buildings,
masses of trees, or other obstruction.
               E.Topography of the proposed facility location in relation to
other facilities with which the proposed facility is to operate.
            (4) The reason or purpose for the placement, construction or
modification with specific reference to the provider's coverage, capacity, and/
or quality needs, goals, and objectives.
            (5) The service area of the proposed wireless telecommunications
facility.
            (6) The nature and extent of the provider/applicant's ownership,
easement or lease interest in the property, building or structure upon which
facilities are proposed for placement, construction or modification.
            (7) The identity and address of all owners and other persons with a
real property interest in the property, building, or structure upon which
facilities are proposed for placement, construction, or modification.
            (8) A map showing existing and proposed wireless telecommunications
antennas, facilities and towers within the village and within areas surrounding
the borders of the village relevant in terms of potential collocation and/or in
demonstrating the need for the proposed facility.
            (9) Certification by a state of Illinois licensed and registered
professional engineer regarding the manner in which the proposed structure will
fail. The certification may be utilized, along with other criteria such as
applicable regulations for the district in question, in determining if
additional setback should be required for the structure and other facilities.
            (10) The village board shall have the discretion to require the
applicant to provide a visual simulation or rendering of the proposed support
structure that illustrates the relationship between the height and the visual
appearance of the structure. If required, the visual simulation shall be
provided from two (2) different perspectives and accurately depict the scale of
the proposed structure in the context of the surrounding area.
            (11) Collocation shall be deemed to be feasible for purposes of
this subsection (G)1 where all of the following are met:
               A.   The wireless telecommunications provider under
consideration for collocation will provide fair compensation for collocation.
               B.   The site on which collocation is being considered, taking
into consideration reasonable modification or replacement of a facility, is
able to provide structural support.
               C.   The collocation being considered is technologically
feasible, where the collocation will not result in unreasonable interference,
given appropriate physical and other adjustments in relation to the tower,
antenna and the like.
               D.   The height of the structure necessary for collocation shall
not exceed the maximum height allowed by this subsection (G)1.
         (c) Setback:
            (1) Wireless telecommunications towers shall be set back from all
property lines a distance equal to their height as measured from the base of
the structure to its highest point. The village board may reduce or waive any
required setback, upon the request of the applicant, if the tower will be less
visible as a result. The village board must find that the reduction or waiver
of the setback is consistent with the purposes and intent of this subsection
(G)1 and this title. In all cases, the tower must at least meet the underlying
setback requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
            (2) Wireless telecommunications facilities shall be set back from
all property lines in accordance with the minimum setback requirements in the
zoning district.
         (d) Height: The maximum height of a wireless telecommunications tower
shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet (150'), including all attachments
(antennas, lightening rods, arrays, etc.). A special use application for
approval of a wireless telecommunications tower shall demonstrate that the
tower does not exceed the maximum height requirement necessary to function
satisfactorily.
         (e) Lighting And Marking: Wireless telecommunications antennas, towers
and facilities shall not be lit or marked unless required by the federal
communications commission (FCC) or the federal aviation administration (FAA).
         (f) Landscaping: Landscaping is required to enhance compatibility with
adjacent land uses. A fence six feet (6') in height must be erected around the
wireless telecommunications tower and/or facility. Landscaping shall be
installed on the outside of fencing in accordance with the following:
            (1) One shade tree shall be provided for every twenty five feet
(25') of fence length, not including gates or other fence openings.
            (2) One shrub for every five (5) linear feet of fence length, not
including gates or other fence openings.
            (3) The landscaping may be flexible in its arrangement by
appropriately aggregating the required plant materials and maintaining open
areas around gates or other fence openings.
         (g) Additional Standards For Wireless Telecommunications Antennas:
            (1) Wireless telecommunications antennas do not include satellite
dishes, as regulated in subsection
6-11-3(J), "Satellite Dish Antennas", of this title.
            (2) Antennas shall be of a color that is identical or similar to
the color of the supporting structure to make the antenna visually unobtrusive.
            (3) No antenna shall increase the height of any structure on which
it is mounted by more than ten percent (10%), or ten feet (10'), whichever is
less.
         (h) Additional Standards For Wireless Telecommunications Facilities:
            (1) Any buildings, cabinets, or shelters shall only house equipment
and supplies for operation of the wireless telecommunication tower. Any
equipment not used in direct support of such operation shall not be stored on
the site.
            (2) Signs for the wireless telecommunications facility shall be
limited to ownership and contact information, FCC antenna registration number
(if required), and any other information required by government regulation.
Commercial advertising is strictly prohibited.
         (i) Additional Standards For Wireless Telecommunications Towers:
            (1) Wireless telecommunications towers shall be designed to
accommodate at least three (3) telecommunications providers.
            (2) The area surrounding a tower must be of a sufficient size to
accommodate wireless telecommunications facilities for at least three (3)
telecommunications providers.
            (3) Unless otherwise required by the federal communications
commission, the federal aviation administration or the village, towers shall
have a galvanized silver or gray finish.
         (j) Stealth Design: Stealth design is encouraged and shall comply with
the following regulations:
            (1) To qualify as a stealth design, wireless telecommunications
antennas and towers must be enclosed, camouflaged, screened, obscured, or
otherwise not readily apparent to a casual observer.
            (2) Antennas located on structures already permitted within zoning
districts, such as flagpoles, bell towers, clock towers, crosses, monuments,
smokestacks, parapets and steeples, and designed to blend into the structure
are considered stealth design.
            (3) Setbacks for any stealth design tower shall be governed by the
setback requirements of the zoning district.
            (4) Stealth design shall accommodate the collocation of other
antennas where economically and technically feasible or aesthetically
appropriate, as determined by the village board.
         (k) Abandonment: Any wireless telecommunications tower or facility
that is not operated for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months shall be
considered abandoned. The owner shall remove the tower or facility within six
(6) months of its abandonment. The village shall ensure and enforce removal by
means of its existing regulatory authority.
         (l) Nonconformities:
            (1) Nonconforming Wireless Telecommunications Antennas Or
Facilities: Ordinary maintenance may be performed on nonconforming antennas or
facilities. However, if the proposed alteration would intensify a nonconforming
characteristic of the antenna or facility, a special use permit is required.
            (2) Nonconforming Telecommunications Towers:
               A.   Ordinary maintenance may be performed on nonconforming
towers.
               B.   Collocation of antenna on an existing nonconforming tower
is permitted upon approval of the building commissioner, provided that the
addition of the antenna and any additional wireless telecommunications
facilities do not intensify the nonconformity. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-10-3: TEMPORARY USES:
   (A)   Temporary Use Permit Application:
      1.   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to obtain a temporary use
permit, as required by this title, shall file a written application with the
building commissioner on a form provided by the village, together with an
application fee as established from time to time by resolution of the village
board.
      2.   The building commissioner shall grant temporary use permits for
those uses listed in subsection (C) of this section so long as he/she
determines that the proposed use, including the erection of any temporary
building or structure, complies with the requirements of this section and this
title. Unless expressly provided in this section, every temporary use shall
comply with the bulk requirements applicable in the district in which the
temporary use is located.
      3.   Temporary uses not specifically listed herein shall require the
specific approval of the village board. Such uses may be allowed in any zoning
district, provided that such temporary use is consistent with the purpose and
intent of this title and the zoning district in which it is located.
      4.   Every temporary use shall comply with, and the building commissioner
or village board may impose, such other conditions, as part of the temporary
use permit approval, as may reasonably be necessary to achieve the purposes of
this title, and to protect the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare. No temporary use shall be permitted in any district if it
would have a significant negative impact on any adjacent property or on the
area as a whole.
   (B)   General Provisions: Every temporary use shall comply with all the
requirements listed below:
      1.   No temporary use shall be permitted that causes, or threatens to
cause, an on site or off site threat to the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare.
      2.   Every temporary use shall be operated in accordance with such
restrictions and conditions as the fire department may require. If required by
the village, the operator of the temporary use shall employ appropriate
security personnel.
      3.   No temporary use shall be permitted if the additional vehicular
traffic reasonably expected to be generated by such use would have undue
detrimental effects on surrounding streets and uses.
      4.   No temporary use shall be authorized that would unreasonably reduce
the amount of parking spaces available for use in connection with permanent
uses located on the lot in question. The building commissioner may make an
assessment of the total number of parking spaces that will be reasonably
required in connection with a proposed temporary use, on the basis of the
particular use, its intensity and the availability of other parking facilities
in the area. The building commissioner shall approve such temporary use only if
such parking spaces are provided.
      5.   No temporary use shall be permitted if such use would conflict with
another previously authorized temporary use.
      6.   Signs shall be permitted only in accordance with chapter 13,
"Signs", of this title.
   (C)   Permitted Temporary Uses:
      1.   Carnivals/Circuses: Carnivals/circuses are allowed in any zoning
district. Any such use shall be evaluated on the basis of the adequacy of the
parcel size, parking provisions, traffic access, and the absence of undue
adverse impact, including noise, on other properties. Such use need not comply
with the yard requirements and the maximum height requirements of this title.
The concessionaire responsible for the operation of any such use shall:
         (a) Submit, in advance of the event, a site layout displaying adequate
ingress and egress routes for emergency vehicles with no dead end aisles.
         (b) Provide fire extinguishers of a type, and at site locations,
approved by the fire department.
         (c) Provide, and service, refuse containers in the number and
locations required by the building commissioner.
         (d) Provide for thorough cleanup of the site at the completion of the
event.
         (e) Provide proof that all amusement devices have been state
inspected.
         (f) Upon written notice from the village, immediately stop the use of
any amusement device or structure found by the village to pose a threat to the
public safety.
      2.   Christmas Tree Sales Lot And Pumpkin Sales Patch: Christmas tree
sales and pumpkin sales patches are allowed in any nonresidential zoning
district. Any such use shall be evaluated based on the adequacy of the parcel
size, parking provisions, traffic access, and the absence of undue adverse
impact on other properties. Such use shall be limited to a period not to exceed
forty five (45) days. Display of Christmas trees need not comply with the yard
requirements of the district in which the lot is located.
      3.   Farmstands And Farmers' Markets: Farmstands and farmers' markets are
allowed in any nonresidential district. No product may be exhibited or offered
for sale except the following: fresh dairy goods, fruits, vegetables, juices,
flowers, plants, herbs, and spices produced or grown by the vendor and baked
goods made by the vendor(s).
      4.   House, Apartment, Garage And Yard Sales: Such sales are allowed in
any residential district, but only when limited to personal possessions of, or
arts and crafts made by, the owner or occupant of the dwelling unit where the
sale is being conducted. Such use shall be limited to a period not to exceed
three (3) consecutive days and no more than two (2) such sales shall be
conducted from the same residence in any twelve (12) month period.
      5.   Arts And Crafts Shows, And Plant Shows (Indoor And Outdoor): Such
sales are allowed in any zoning district. Any such sale shall be evaluated
based on the adequacy of the parcel size, parking provisions, traffic access,
and the absence of undue adverse impact on other properties. In residential
districts, such sales shall be limited to a period not to exceed three (3) days
and no more than two (2) such sales shall be permitted in any twelve (12) month
period.
      6.   Sidewalk Sales: Sidewalk sales must be in conjunction with, and
clearly incidental to, an existing permanent use on site. Sidewalk sales are
allowed in any nonresidential district, and are permitted to display and sell
merchandise that is found in stores participating in the sidewalk sale only. No
such sale shall be permitted for a period of more than five (5) successive days
and no more than two (2) such sales shall be permitted in any twelve (12) month
period.
      7.   Temporary Contractor Trailers And Real Estate Model Units:
Contractor trailers and real estate model units are allowed in any zoning
district when accessory to a construction project or a new development,
respectively. Such use shall be limited to a period not to exceed the duration
of the active construction phase of such project or the active selling and
leasing of space in such development, respectively. No such use shall contain
any sleeping or cooking accommodations, except those located in a model unit
used for demonstration purposes only. No such trailer, unit, or office shall be
used as the general office or headquarters of any firm.
      8.   Temporary Outdoor Sales And Display: Retail goods establishments are
permitted temporary outdoor sales and display of merchandise, by either a store
owner or occupant, outside the store and within the same lot. Any lawfully
existing commercial use shall be permitted to display and sell its merchandise
outdoors under the following conditions:
         (a) No display, sales or additional parking is permitted in any street
right of way. In addition, no display, sales or additional parking shall
obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
         (b) All display and sales areas shall comply with the minimum required
yard setbacks.
         (c) No more than ten percent (10%) of the required parking area for
the existing commercial use may be used for the temporary outdoor sales and
display, unless approved by the building commissioner. The use of the parking
area for such outdoor sales and display shall only be used on a temporary
basis.
      9.   Temporary Storage Trailers And Temporary Storage Containers:
         (a) Temporary storage trailers and temporary storage containers shall
not be used for permanent storage. They shall not serve as a substitute for
permanent storage needs on the site on which they are located.
         (b) Temporary storage trailers and temporary storage containers shall
not be permanently attached to the ground, serviced with permanent utilities or
stacked on the site.
         (c) Temporary storage trailers are not permitted in residential
districts. Temporary storage trailers shall only be permitted when they are
located within a loading dock or bay or within the rear yard, or are in the
process of being loaded or unloaded within an approved designated loading area.
If a business is in need of any additional accommodations for temporary storage
trailers, they can request a variation to these standards from the plan
commission/zoning board of appeals.
         (d) Temporary storage containers are permitted in any district. Such
containers shall be permitted within the driveway or on the street for no
longer than twenty four (24) hours. Temporary storage containers may not
encroach into front, corner side or interior side yards, except on preexisting
driveways or other paved surfaces. Temporary storage containers are permitted
in rear yards for no longer than five (5) days only if they are screened from
view and are located five feet (5') from any lot line. However, temporary
storage containers shall not serve as a substitute for permanent storage needs
on the site on which they are located.
         (e)   Portable Storage Units (PODs).
            (1)   Definitions:
               (i)   Portable Storage Unit shall mean any container designed
for the outside storage of personal property which is typically rented to
owners or occupants of residential property for their temporary use on the
exterior of the property and which is delivered to the property and removed by
vehicle.
               (ii)   Site shall mean a tract, or plot of residential real
estate occupied or that may be occupied.
               (iii)   User shall mean the owner or occupant of residential
real estate entering into an agreement with a portable storage unit company for
the placement of a portable storage unit on a residential site located in the
Village.
            (2)   Location of Portable Storage Units:
               (i)   portable storage units may be temporarily located in
single-family or multi-family zoning districts provided the portable storage
unit shall be placed only on a driveway or on the street in front of owner's
house and not to obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic; and
               (ii)   portable storage units may be allowed in multi-family
zoning districts in a location so long as such location still provides adequate
parking, public safety access, and complies with all health, safety and welfare
concerns.
            (3)   Dimensions of Portable Storage Units. A portable storage unit
shall be no larger than one hundred and thirty (130) square feet in area and no
higher than ten (101 feet from grade.
            (4)   Condition, Usage and Maintenance of Portable Storage Units:
               (i)   the exterior of a portable storage unit shall be
constructed of weather proof material.
               (ii)   a portable storage unit shall have no signage other than
the name, address and telephone number of the person or firm engaged in the
business of renting or otherwise placing the portable storage unit and the
signage must be permanently adhered to, or painted on, the portable storage
unit.
               (iii)   the user shall, at all times while the portable storage
unit is located at the site, be responsible for ensuring that the portable
storage unit is maintained in good condition, free from evidence of
deterioration, weathering, graffiti, rust or other holes or breaks.
               (iv)   no portable storage unit shall be used to store solid
waste, construction debris, demolition debris, recyclable materials, business
inventory, commercial goods, goods or property other than at the residential
property where the portable storage unit is located or any other illegal or
hazardous material, and upon reasonable notice to the user and upon reasonable
cause to believe the portable storage unit is being used in violation of the
provisions of this section, the village may inspect the contents of any
portable storage unit at any reasonable time.
               (v)   a portable storage unit may remain at a site for a period
not to exceed five (5) consecutive days unless otherwise approved by the
Building Commissioner or designee.
            (5)   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation or other entity to use, have or cause a portable storage unit to be
delivered to any residential property within the village without having first
secured a building permit from the village therefore in accordance with the
requirements of this section.
            (6)   Permit Fees. The fee for a temporary portable storage unit
shall be $150.00 if located upon a street, or $50.00 if located upon the lawful
and approved driveway of the property.
            (7)   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not less than seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
violation with each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006; Ord. 2025-05, 3-17-2025)
CHAPTER 11
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Use Of Land And Buildings
6-11-2: Exterior Lighting
6-11-3: Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses
6-11-4: Permitted Encroachments
6-11-5: Environmental Performance Standards
6-11-1: USE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Number Of Buildings On A Lot: In the R1, R2 and R3 districts there
shall be no more than one principal building per lot. In all other districts,
more than one building may be erected on a single lot, provided that all yard
and bulk requirements hereof shall be met for each building as though it were a
principal building on an individual lot.
   (B)   All Activities Within An Enclosed Building: Within all districts, all
activities shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building, with the
exception of the following activities and uses:
      1.   Off street parking and loading in accordance with chapter 12, "Off
Street Parking And Loading", of this title.
      2.   Outdoor businesses, and those businesses with a required outdoor
component, including, but not limited to, outdoor entertainment, outdoor
recreation, outdoor dining, car washes, kennels and similar business. Such
businesses may be limited or outdoor components prohibited as a condition of a
special use permit.
      3.   Outdoor storage and display areas in accordance with subsection
6-11-3(G), "Outdoor Storage And Display", of this chapter.
      4.   Temporary uses in accordance with section
6-10-3, "Temporary Uses", of this title.
   (C)   Frontage On A Public Or Private Street: All lots shall front on a
public or private street.
   (D)   Maintenance Of Required Yards: No lot shall be reduced in area so that
the yards become less than required by this title. The yards of a building or
structure shall not be considered yard space for any other building or
structure.
   (E)   Applicability Of Bulk Requirements: All buildings and structures
erected after the effective date hereof shall meet the requirements for the
zoning district in which the building or structure is located. No existing
building shall be enlarged, altered, reconstructed, or relocated in such a
manner that conflicts with the requirements of the zoning district in which the
building or structure shall be located.
   (F)   Applicability Of Use Restrictions: No building, structure, or land
shall be used for any use other than one allowed as either a permitted or
special use in the zoning district in which such building, structure or land is
located. Buildings, structures, or land may also be used for a temporary use or
accessory use, in accordance with the requirements of section
6-10-3, "Temporary Uses", of this title and section
6-11-3, "Accessory Buildings, Structures, And Uses", of this chapter.
   (G)   View Obstruction: Notwithstanding any provisions relating to height
hereinbefore stated, the visional clearance area at the intersection of two (2)
streets, which shall be defined as a triangular area of a corner lot measured
twenty feet (20') on the front lot line and twenty feet (20') on the corner
side lot line, and shall not be obstructed by any sign, wall, fence, hedge,
shrub or other object which exceeds thirty six inches (36") in height. In the
event that the grade of a lot is higher than the street grade, the height of
the wall, fence, hedge, or shrub shall be reduced so that the visional
clearance is not obstructed thirty six inches (36") over the grade of the
street. The vision clearance area is illustrated in figure 3, "View
Obstruction", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4487.png]
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-11-2: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
   (A)   Light Trespass:
      1.   No exterior lighting shall glare into, or upon, the surrounding area
or any residential premises. In addition, no exterior lighting may be used in
any manner that could interfere with the safe movement of motor vehicles on
public thoroughfares. The light level shall be no greater than one-half (0.5)
foot- candle at a residential property line and one foot-candle at any
nonresidential property line or public right of way line.
      2.   Specifically, the following types of light trespass are prohibited:
         (a) Any light not designed for roadway illumination that produces
direct or reflected glare that could disturb the operator of a motor vehicle.
         (b) Any light that may be confused with, or construed as, a traffic
control device, except as authorized by state, federal or local government.
   (B)   Unshielded Lighting: The use of unshielded lighting, including
incandescent light bulbs hung or strung on poles, wires, or any other type of
support, to illuminate buildings, structures, outdoor sales areas, or outdoor
storage or display areas is prohibited except on a temporary basis in areas
where carnivals, fairs, or other similar activities are held and only when such
activities are taking place.
   (C)   Light Pole Heights: The maximum height of light poles on private
property, as measured from grade at the base to the bottom of the luminaire,
shall be as specified below. Building mounted fixtures may exceed these height
limitations, provided that they are fully shielded. These standards do not
apply to roadway lighting (that controlled by the Illinois department of
transportation). Permitted light pole heights shall be as follows:
      1.   Nonresidential Districts: Light poles shall be designed with fully
shielded luminaires which shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height in the
C1 and C2 districts, and thirty five feet (35') in height in all other
nonresidential districts. Light poles on school sites or that light public
outdoor recreational facilities shall not exceed sixty feet (60') in height.
      2.   Residential Districts: Light poles for single-, two- and three-unit
uses shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height. Light poles for
nonresidential, multi-unit and townhouse residential uses shall not exceed
twelve feet (12') in height. Light poles on school sites or that light public
outdoor recreational facilities shall not exceed sixty feet (60') in height.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-11-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND USES:
All accessory buildings, structures, and uses, as defined in chapter 16,
"Definitions", of this title shall be subject to the requirements of this
section and the requirements of section
6-11-4, "Permitted Encroachments", of this chapter.
   (A)   Accessory Buildings; Detached Garages, Private Greenhouses, Gazebos
And Sheds:
      1.   No accessory building shall be constructed prior to construction of
the principal building to which it is accessory.
      2.   Accessory buildings are prohibited within the required front, corner
side or side yard of any lot.
      3.   The maximum height of any detached accessory structure, with the
exception of detached garages, shall be ten feet (10') as measured to the peak
of the roof. A detached garage shall not exceed sixteen feet (16') in height as
measured to the peak of a pitched roof, but the maximum height of the side wall
shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height. Garage doors shall not exceed eight
feet (8') in height. See figure 4, "Accessory Building Height", of this
section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4489.png]
 
      4.   The combined square footage of all detached accessory buildings
located in the rear yard shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the
required rear yard. See figure 5, "Accessory Buildings", of this section.
      5.   Detached accessory buildings, including detached garages, must be
located five feet (5') from a rear lot line and three feet (3') from any side
lot line. See figure 5, "Accessory Buildings", of this section. However, those
lots zoned R1 located along the 2900 block of Beulah Avenue, as bordered by
Chestnut Avenue to the south and Franklin Avenue to the north, in accordance
with section
6-6-6, "Beulah Avenue Existing Lots Of Record", of this title are permitted to
locate rear garages on the rear lot line due to their unique angled
configuration.
      6.   Accessory buildings shall be located a minimum of ten feet (10')
from the principal building on a lot. See figure 5, "Accessory Buildings", of
this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4491.png]
 
      7.   Secondary living units shall be prohibited. Existing secondary
living units shall be deemed a legal nonconformity and shall be controlled by
the provisions of chapter 15, "Nonconformities", of this title. In the case of
detached secondary living units (such as "coach houses"), such units shall be
deemed nonconforming structures, and in the case of living space located within
and/or above a detached garage, such use shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
Existing secondary living units are deemed a legal nonconformity but must be
removed or discontinued within ten (10) years of the date of adoption hereof
due to issues of safety, proper egress, lack of adequate parking and
overcrowding within residential neighborhoods.
      8.   All new or replacement detached accessory structures shall require a
concrete floor and footing as determined by the Building Commissioner or
designee.
   (B)   Amateur (Ham) Radio Equipment: Towers that solely support amateur
(ham) radio equipment and conform to all applicable performance criteria as set
forth in section
6-11-5, "Environmental Performance Standards", of this chapter shall be
permitted in the rear yard of residential districts. Ham radio towers shall be
limited to the minimum height that is technically necessary to engage
successfully in amateur radio communications as approved by the building
commissioner.
   (C)   Arbors: Arbors are permitted encroachments into rear, front and corner
side yards, provided they comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Each surface of the arbor or trellis shall be at least fifty percent
(50%) open.
      2.   The arbor or trellis shall be set back a minimum of one foot (1')
from any public right of way.
      3.   The maximum height shall be eight feet (8'), the maximum length six
feet (6') and the maximum depth three feet (3').
      4.   Arbors and trellises are not permitted encroachments in interior
side yards.
   (D)   Fences And Walls: As used in this Section, the following words shall
have the meanings, respectively ascribed to them:
      FENCE: A structure erected along or within three feet (3') from the
boundary of any lot and forming a barrier or division between lots, a lot and a
street or a lot and an alley.
      SOLID FENCE: A fence so constructed that less than thirty percent (30%)
of the area thereof consists of uniformly distributed apertures.
      COMBUSTIBLE FENCE: A fence not constructed of entirely non-combustible
material.
      GRADE: The average ground level at any point along the boundary of a lot.
      1.   Building Permit Required: No fence or wall shall be erected or
replaced within the city without first obtaining a building permit.
      2.   Swimming Pool Fences: Swimming pool fences shall comply with the
requirements of subsection (K) of this section.
      3.   Height: Fences and walls shall be constructed so as not to exceed
the following heights:
         (a) Residential Districts: In any yard adjoining a street, height
shall be limited to three and one-half feet (31/2') above grade, except in
those cases where the fence or wall is located within the vision clearance area
where they are limited to three feet (3') (see subsection
6-11-1(G) of this chapter). On all other lot lines or portions of lot lines the
height of the fence or wall shall not exceed six feet (6') above grade. See
figure 6, "Fence Or Wall Height", of this section for these dimensions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4493.png]
 
         (b) Commercial Districts:
            (1) In the C1 and C2 districts, fences or walls are prohibited in
the front and corner side yards. In rear and interior side yards, fences or
walls shall be limited to six feet (6') above grade.
            (2) In the C3 and C4 districts, fence or wall height in any yard
shall be limited to ten feet (10') above grade.
         (c) Manufacturing Districts: Fence or wall height shall be limited to
ten feet (10') above grade in all manufacturing districts.
      4.   Fence Location: Fences that are not located within two inches (2")
of the property line shall be located at least three feet (3') from the
property line. Any space along the perimeter of the lot, between the fence and
the property line, shall be properly maintained. See figure 7, "Fence Property
Line Setback", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4495.png]
 
      5.   Construction And Design Requirements:
         (a)   All fence posts shall be placed on the inside of the fence.
         (b)   A fence or wall, including all posts, bases, and other
structural parts shall be located completely within the boundaries of the lot
on which it is located.
         (c)   Fences shall be designed and constructed to resist a horizontal
wind pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot in addition
to all other forces to which they may be subject.
      (6)   Fence on Fence Regulations. Fence on fence installations between
adjacent and neighboring properties are prohibited unless an applicant
proposing to install a fence less than three feet (3') to an adjacent existing
fence includes a proposed maintenance plan for any space under and between the
existing fence and proposed fence which is approved by the building
commissioner or his or her designee. The maintenance plan shall include a
drainage plan so that surface precipitation does not to drain onto or into the
adjacent property in any manner.
   (E)   Mechanical Equipment:
      1.   In residential districts, all ground based mechanical equipment
including, but not limited to, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning units
(HVAC), shall be located in the rear yard. In commercial and manufacturing
districts, all ground based mechanical equipment shall be located in the rear
or interior side yard.
      2.   In cases where it is impractical to locate mechanical equipment
within the permitted yard, the building commissioner may approve an alternative
location, which must be properly screened with landscaping, hedges, and/or
fencing. Screening materials shall include masonry, wood, landscaped hedges or
other opaque material.
      3.   All approved ground based mechanical equipment, including, but not
limited to, heating, ventilating and air conditioning units (HVAC), shall be
completely screened from public view. Screening materials may be solid
concrete, masonry, wood, landscaped hedges or other opaque material, and shall
effectively screen mechanical equipment so no portion is visible from a street
or adjoining lot. Color and texture of a concrete or masonry screen wall shall
be compatible with the color and texture of the primary buildings on the site.
      4.   Any heating, ventilation, or air conditioning equipment located on
the roof of any structure in any zoning district shall be screened either by an
architectural element of at least six feet (6') from any supporting wall of the
building to permit safe access to the roof by the fire department.
      5.   Pool equipment is subject to the provisions of subsection (K),
"Swimming Pools (Private)", of this section.
   (F)   Outdoor Fireplaces And Fire Pits: Permitted outdoor fireplaces and
fire pits shall comply with section
8-1-11 of this code.
   (G)   Outdoor Storage And Display:
      1.   Retail goods establishments are permitted temporary outdoor sales
and display areas in accordance with subsection
6-10-3(C)8, "Temporary Outdoor Sales And Display", of this title, which is
distinct from the provisions of this section.
      2.   The following uses are permitted to have outdoor storage and display
areas in accordance with the provisions of this subsection, and the screening
requirements of chapter 14, "Landscaping And Screening", of this title:
Greenhouse/nursery, including the growing of plants in the open.
Heavy retail and service establishment.
Manufacturing, light.
Manufacturing, medium.
Motor vehicle dealership.
Motor vehicle operations facility.
Motor vehicle rental establishment.
Motor vehicle service and repair, major.
Motor vehicle service and repair, minor.
Additional accessory outdoor storage and display areas may be approved by the
building commissioner.
      3.   All manufacturing, assembly, repair or work activity shall take
place inside an enclosed building. No work shall take place outdoors.
      4.   No required parking area shall be used as an outdoor storage or
display area.
      5.   No materials stored or displayed outdoors shall be of a greater
height than that of the required screening.
   (H)   Porches:
      1.   Unenclosed porches are permitted encroachments into a rear yard but
must be located five feet (5') from a rear lot line and three feet (3') from
any side lot line.
      2.   Enclosed porches must meet all setback requirements.
      3.   Steps and stoops are not considered porches.
      4.   Unenclosed Porches are permitted encroachments into a front yard but
must: (i) be located no more than six feet (6') from front of house and not
exceed the width of the existing residential home; (ii) comply with current
set-backs; and (iii) have a roof and not be enclosed in any manner.
   (I)   Retaining Walls:
      1.   If the face of a building is within fifteen feet (15') of a
retaining wall, the height of the retaining wall shall be included in the
building height calculation. The combination of the retaining wall height and
the remainder of the building height above the wall shall not exceed the
maximum building height limitation.
      2.   Retaining walls shall not encroach into any public right of way.
      3.   Retaining walls and terracing (in terms of landscaping) over two
feet (2') shall not encroach into any front yard, unless deemed necessary by
the village engineer.
   (J)   Satellite Dish Antennas:
      1.   General Requirements:
         (a) Satellite dish antennas shall be permanently installed on a
building, in the ground or on a foundation, and shall not be mounted on a
portable or movable structure.
         (b) Subject to operational requirements, the dish color shall be of a
neutral color, such as white or grey, and shall blend with the surroundings as
best as possible. No additional signs or advertising shall be permitted on the
satellite dish itself, aside from the logos of the satellite dish service
provider or dish manufacturer.
         (c) Cables and lines serving ground mounted satellite dish antennas
shall be located underground.
         (d) Compliance with all federal, state and local regulations shall be
required in the construction, installation, and operation of satellite dish
antennas.
         (e) All exposed surfaces of the antenna shall be kept clean and all
supports shall be painted to maintain a well kept appearance. Antennas no
longer in use must be removed.
      2.   Small Satellite Dish Antennas (Three Feet Or Less In Diameter):
Small satellite dish antennas, which are three feet (3') or less in diameter,
shall be subject to the general requirements of subsection (J)1 of this
section. Every effort shall be made to install small satellite dish antennas in
locations that are not readily visible from neighboring properties or from the
public right of way.
      3.   Large Satellite Dish Antennas (More Than Three Feet In Diameter):
         (a) Residential Districts:
            (1) Large satellite dish antennas shall be located in the rear yard
and shall be set back a distance from all lot lines that is at least equal to
the height of the dish, but in no case less than five feet (5') from any lot
line.
            (2) The overall height of a large satellite dish antenna shall not
exceed twelve feet (12').
            (3) A large satellite dish antenna shall be located and screened so
that it cannot be readily seen from public streets or adjacent properties.
Screening shall include fences, plant materials, and/or earth berms located to
conceal the sides and rear of the antenna and its support structure. Plants
shall be at minimum five feet (5') tall at the time of installation.
         (b) Commercial And Industrial Districts:
            (1) A large satellite dish antenna shall be located in the rear or
side yard, and shall be set back a distance from all lot lines that is at least
equal to the height of the dish, but in no case less than five feet (5') from
any lot line.
            (2) Roof mounting shall be permitted only if the satellite dish
antenna is in scale with the overall building mass and location, as determined
by the building commissioner, and shall be screened by an architectural
feature. The visible portion of the dish should not comprise more than twenty
five percent (25%) of the corresponding height or width of the screen.
            (3) Ground mounted satellite dish antennas shall provide screening,
which includes fencing, berming, or landscaping to accomplish the following:
               A.   All ground mounted accessory equipment and the lower part
of the support structure shall be completely screened.
               B.   Where feasible, trees shall be installed to the side and
rear of the antenna and at a height/elevation equal to the tallest portion of
the dish.
   (K)   Swimming Pools (Private): It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain,
install, or enlarge any swimming pool in the village except in compliance with
all the provisions of title IV, chapter 19, "Private Swimming Pools", of this
code. In addition, accompanying pool equipment is subject to the regulations of
title IV, chapter 19 of this code.
   (L)   Tents: Tents shall comply with this code. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006;
amd. Ord. 2025-06, 3-17-2025)
6-11-4: PERMITTED ENCROACHMENTS:
An encroachment is the extension or placement of any structure or building, or
component of such, into a required yard. Permitted encroachments are found in
table 11, "Permitted Encroachments", of this section.
   TABLE 11
   PERMITTED ENCROACHMENTS
   Y = Encroachment PermittedN = Encroachment Prohibited
             Yards
Encroachment Front Yard And Corner Side Yard Interior Side Yard Rear Yard
                                                                                Yards
                                                                                Front
                                                                                Yard And Interior Side Rear
Encroachment                                                                    Corner   Yard          Yard
                                                                                Side
                                                                                Yard
Accessibility ramps                                                             Y        N             Y
Accessory buildings
-   Subject to subsection                                                    N        N             Y
6-11-3(A) of this chapter
Air conditioner window units                                                    Y        Y             Y
-   Project no more than 18 inches into any required yard
Amateur radio (ham) equipment
-   Subject to subsection                                                    N        N             Y
6-11-3(B) of this chapter
Arbors
-   Subject to subsection                                                    Y        N             Y
6-11-3(C) of this chapter
Awnings and canopies                                                            Y        Y             Y
-   Project no more than 24 inches into the required yard
Balconies
-   Project no more than 24 inches into any required yard                    Y        N             Y
-   At least 7 feet above grade
                                                                                Y, but                 Y, but
                                                                                project  Y, but        project
                                                                                no more  project no    no more
Bay windows                                                                     than 2   more than 6   than 2
                                                                                feet     inches into a feet
                                                                                into a   required yard into a
                                                                                required               required
                                                                                yard                   yard
Chimneys                                                                        Y        Y             Y
-   Project no more than 18 inches into a required yard
Compost piles                                                                   N        N             Y
                                                                                                       Y, but
                                                                                                       must be
                                                                                                       5 feet
                                                                                                       from a
Decks                                                                           N        N             rear lot
                                                                                                       line and
                                                                                                       3 feet
                                                                                                       from any
                                                                                                       side lot
                                                                                                       line
Eaves, including gutters                                                        Y        Y             Y
-   Project no more than 18 inches into the required yard
Fences and walls
-   Subject to subsection                                                    Y        Y             Y
6-11-3(D) of this chapter
Fire escapes (open)                                                             N        N             Y
Firewood storage                                                                N        N             Y
Flagpoles                                                                       Y        N             Y
                                                                                                       Y, but
                                                                                                       must be
                                                                                                       5 feet
Gazebos and pergolas                                                                                   from a
-   Each surface of the gazebo shall be at least 25 percent open             N        N             rear lot
-   Each surface of the pergola shall be at least 50 percent open                                   line and
                                                                                                       3 feet
                                                                                                       from any
                                                                                                       side lot
                                                                                                       line
                                                                                         Y in
Ground or roof mounted mechanical equipment                                              commercial
-   Subject to subsection                                                    N        and           Y
6-11-3(E) of this chapter                                                                manufacturing
                                                                                         districts
                                                                                         only
Laundry drying equipment (clotheslines and poles)                               N        Y             Y
Lawn furniture and decorations (benches, statues, birdbaths, sculptures, etc.)  Y        N             Y
Outdoor fireplaces
-   Subject to subsection                                                    N        N             Y
6-11-3(F) of this chapter
                                                                                                       Y, but
                                                                                                       must be
                                                                                                       5 feet
                                                                                                       from a
Patios                                                                          N        N             rear lot
                                                                                                       line and
                                                                                                       3 feet
                                                                                                       from any
                                                                                                       side lot
                                                                                                       line
                                                                                Y,
                                                                                provided
                                                                                they are               Y, but
                                                                                located                must be
Playground and recreational equipment and playhouse (excluding equipment        no       N             5 feet
located on park/playground, school or daycare center sites)                     closer                 from any
                                                                                than 5                 lot line
                                                                                feet
                                                                                from any
                                                                                lot line
Porches, enclosed
-   Subject to subsection                                                    N        N             N
6-11-3(H) of this chapter
                                                                                                       Y, but
                                                                                                       must be
                                                                                                       5 feet
Porches, unenclosed                                                                                    from a
-   Subject to subsection                                                    N        N             rear lot
6-11-3(H) of this chapter                                                                              line and
                                                                                                       3 feet
                                                                                                       from any
                                                                                                       side lot
                                                                                                       line
Retaining walls
-   Subject to subsection                                                    Y        Y             Y
6-11-3(I) of this chapter
Satellite dish antenna
-   Subject to subsection                                                    Y        Y             Y
6-11-3(J) of this chapter
Sidewalks and private walkways                                                  Y        Y             Y
Signs                                                                           Y        Y             Y
-   Subject to chapter 13, "Signs", of this title
Steps and stoops
-   Do not extend more than 3 feet into the required yard where permitted
-   If there is a front porch, do not extend more than 3 feet from the porch Y        N             Y
-   If required by the building code, the encroachment may exceed 3 feet to
meet the minimum requirements of the building code
Swimming pools (private), including pool equipment
-   Subject to subsection                                                    N        N             Y
6-11-3(K) of this chapter
                                                                                                       Y,
                                                                                                       provided
                                                                                                       they are
                                                                                                       located
Tennis courts (excluding those located within parks or school sites)            N        N             no
                                                                                                       closer
                                                                                                       than 10
                                                                                                       feet
                                                                                                       from any
                                                                                                       lot line
Tents
-   Subject to subsection                                                    N        N             Y
6-11-3(L) of this chapter
Trash receptacles                                                               N        N             Y
-   Does not include those temporarily placed on the lot for trash collection
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-11-5: ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
All uses shall comply with the performance standards established in this
section unless any federal, state, county or local law, ordinance or regulation
establishes a more restrictive standard, in which case, the more restrictive
standard shall apply.
   (A)   Noise: No activity or use shall be conducted in a manner that
generates a level of sound, as measured on another property, in violation of
title IV, chapter 22, "Noise", of this code. The limits shall not apply to
construction noises, noises emanating from safety signals or warning devices,
noises not directly under the control of the owner or occupant of the property
and transient noises from moving sources, such as motor vehicles, railroads,
and aircraft.
   (B)   Glare And Heat: Any activity or the operation of any use that produces
glare or heat shall be conducted so that no glare or heat from the activity or
operation shall be detectable at any point off the lot on which the use is
located. Flickering or intense sources of light shall be controlled or shielded
so as not to cause a nuisance across lot lines.
   (C)   Vibration: No earthborn vibration from the operation of any use shall
be detectable at any point off the lot on which the use is located.
   (D)   Dust And Air Pollution: Dust and other types of air pollution, borne
by the wind from sources, such as storage areas, yards, roads, conveying
equipment and the like, within lot boundaries, shall be kept to a minimum by
appropriate landscaping, screening, sheltering, paving, fencing, wetting,
collecting, or other acceptable means. No persons shall cause, or allow, the
emission of fugitive particulate matter across lot lines visible to an observer
looking generally toward the zenith, beyond the property line.
This requirement shall not apply when the wind speed is greater than twenty
five (25) miles per hour. Determination of wind speed for the purposes of this
rule shall be by a one hour average or hourly recorded value at the nearest
official station of the U.S. weather bureau or by wind speed instruments
operated on the site.
   (E)   Discharge And Disposal Of Radioactive And Hazardous Waste: The
discharge of fluid and the disposal of solid radioactive and hazardous waste
materials shall comply with applicable federal, state and local laws and
regulations governing such materials or waste. No operation that produces
radioactive or hazardous waste material shall commence without prior notice to
the city. Notice shall be given at least three (3) weeks before the operation
is commenced. Radioactive and hazardous material waste shall be transported,
stored, and used in conformance with all applicable federal, state and local
laws.
   (F)   Electromagnetic Interference: Electromagnetic interference from any
operation of any use in any district shall not adversely affect the operation
of any equipment located off the lot on which such interference originates.
   (G)   Odors: Any condition or operation which results in the creation of
odors of such intensity and character as to be detrimental to the health and
welfare of the public, or which interferes unreasonably with the comfort of the
public, shall be removed, stopped, or modified so as to remove the odor.
If, in a particular circumstance, a determination of an odor being qualified as
a nuisance is inconclusive, the standard shall be that the emission of odors is
prohibited when emitted in such quantities that it is detectable at any point
along a lot line when diluted in the ratio of one volume of odorous air to two
(2) volumes of clean air, as measured with a calibrated field olfactometer.
   (H)   Toxic Substances: The storage, handling, or transport of toxic
substances shall comply with the state of Illinois pollution control board
rules and regulations.
   (I)   Water Pollution: All uses shall comply with the state of Illinois
pollution control board rules and regulations.
   (J)   Fire And Explosion Hazards: Materials that present potential fire and
explosion hazards shall be transported, stored and used only in conformance
with all applicable federal, state and local laws. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 12
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
6-12-1: General Provisions
6-12-2: Computation
6-12-3: Construction Of Parking And Loading Facilities
6-12-4: Collective Provisions
6-12-5: Shared Parking
6-12-6: Location Of Off Street Parking Spaces
6-12-7: Ownership And Control
6-12-8: Design Of Off Street Parking Spaces
6-12-9: Accessible Parking
6-12-10: Stacking Spaces For Drive-Through Facilities
6-12-11: Commercial Vehicles In Residential Districts
6-12-12: Recreational Vehicles In Residential Districts
6-12-13: Required Off Street Parking Spaces
6-12-14: Required Off Street Loading Spaces
6-12-15: Design Of Off Street Loading Spaces
6-12-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply as follows:
   (A)   Existing Facilities:
      1.   Existing off street parking and loading facilities shall not be
reduced below the requirements of this chapter. If such existing facilities are
already less than the requirements of this chapter they shall not be further
reduced.
      2.   Existing off street parking and loading facilities which do not
conform to the requirements of this chapter, but were in conformance with the
requirements of this title at the time the parking or loading facilities were
established, are permitted to continue as legal nonconforming uses.
      3.   Where a building permit has been issued prior to the effective date
hereof, and provided that construction is commenced within one hundred eighty
(180) days of such date and diligently pursued to completion, parking and
loading facilities shall be provided in the amounts required for the issuance
of said building permit, regardless of the amount required by this chapter.
   (B)   Damage Or Destruction: When a building is reconstructed or repaired
after being damaged or destroyed by over fifty percent (50%), off street
parking and loading facilities shall be restored in conformance with the
requirements of this title. However, it shall not be necessary to restore or
maintain parking and loading facilities in excess of the applicable
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Change In Land Use: When an existing use of a building, structure or
parcel of land is changed to a new use, parking and loading spaces shall be
provided as required for such new use. Additional parking or loading spaces
shall be required in the amount by which the requirements for the new use
exceed the requirements for the existing use.
   (D)   Change In Intensity Of Use:
      1.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or parcel of
land is increased, additional parking and loading spaces shall be provided. The
number of additional parking and loading spaces shall be based on the increase
in the number of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, or other
unit of measurement used to calculate the required number of parking or loading
spaces.
      2.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or parcel of
land is decreased, the number of parking and loading spaces may be reduced so
long as the parking requirements of this chapter are met for the entire
building, structure, or parcel of land as modified.
   (E)   Provision Of Additional Spaces: Nothing in this chapter shall be
deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of off street parking or loading
facilities, provided that all regulations governing the location, design, and
control of such facilities shall be in accordance with this chapter.
   (F)   Limitations On Use: No motor vehicle repair or cleaning of any kind
shall be permitted in any parking space, parking lot, or loading berth. No
gasoline, motor oil, or any other accessory or similar product shall be sold or
dispensed in such areas. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-2: COMPUTATION:
The total number of required parking and loading spaces shall be based upon the
requirements for the principal use of the lot. However, when more than one use
occupies the same lot, the number of required spaces shall be the sum of the
separate requirements for each use. All off street parking facilities shall be
completed before occupancy of the building or structure served. In computing
the number of off street parking or loading spaces required by this chapter,
the following standards for computation shall apply:
   (A)   Space allocated to any off street loading space shall not be used to
satisfy the requirement for any off street parking space or access aisle, or
portion thereof. Conversely, the area allocated to any off street parking space
shall not be used to satisfy the replacement for any off street loading space
or portion thereof.
   (B)   A fraction of less than one-half (1/2) may be disregarded and a
fraction of one-half (1/2) or more shall be counted as one parking or loading
space.
   (C)   In places of assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches,
pews, or similar seating facilities, every twenty four inches (24") of such
seating facility shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of determining
the requirement for off street parking facilities.
   (D)   Except as otherwise specified, parking or loading spaces required on
an employee basis shall be based on the maximum number of employees normally
present on the premises at any one time. When the determination of the number
of parking spaces is based on the number of employees, the owner and/or manager
shall be counted as an employee(s).
   (E)   For commercial and industrial uses, where there is accessory office
space that serves the administrative functions for a commercial or industrial
use, this floor area shall be included in the gross floor area calculation for
the principal use, rather than be used to calculate the requirement separately
for office space. The exception shall be that any floor area devoted to office
space that exceeds three percent (3%) of the gross floor area shall be required
to meet the parking requirement for professional office space. (Ord. 2006-37,
12-21-2006)
6-12-3: CONSTRUCTION OF PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
   (A)   Site Plan Review Required: Site plan review, in accordance with
section
6-4-5, "Site Plan Review", of this title, is required prior to any
construction, alteration or addition of any parking facility providing four (4)
or more parking spaces, and for any loading facility. For purposes of this
section, construction, alteration or addition shall include all paving of
previously unpaved surfaces, replacement of pavement with new binder and
surface courses, construction of curbing, installation of new parking lot
landscaping, and similar activities. Construction, alteration or addition shall
not include maintenance activities such as replacement of existing landscaping,
repair of existing curbing, repairs, sealing, restriping, or placement of
surface course pavement over previously paved areas. No permit shall be
required for maintenance activities.
   (B)   Time Of Completion: Off street parking and loading facilities required
by this chapter shall be completed prior to the issuance of the occupancy
permit for the use they serve. If weather conditions do not permit such
completion, the building commissioner may issue a temporary occupancy permit in
accordance with the requirements of section
6-4-7, "Occupancy Permit", of this title. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-4: COLLECTIVE PROVISIONS:
Off street parking spaces for separate uses may be provided collectively if the
aggregate number of spaces provided is not less than the sum of the spaces
required for each use separately. No parking or loading space, or portion
thereof, shall serve as the required space for more than one use. (Ord. 2006-
37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-5: SHARED PARKING:
An off street parking facility may be shared between two (2) or more uses,
provided that use of such facility by each user does not occur at the same
time. No shared use of parking spaces shall be permitted unless:
   (A)   The users of the shared parking facility shall sign an agreement,
approved by the village attorney, expressing the intent to share parking
facilities and shall file this agreement with the village.
   (B)   Approval is obtained from the building commissioner that confirms that
the use of such facility by each user does not take place at the same hours
during the same days of the week.
   (C)   The location and design requirements of this chapter are met.
   (D)   Any subsequent change in ownership or use shall require proof that the
minimum parking requirements, per this chapter, have been met for each use. The
owner of a building or use shall have one hundred eighty (180) days within
which to accommodate all required off street parking or to apply for a
variation. If the owner is unable to accommodate the parking or fails to apply
for a variation, then the occupancy permit shall be revoked with respect to the
building or use for which the separate parking was required. The occupancy
permit shall be reinstated when all applicable provisions of this chapter are
complied with. As an alternative to a variation, a new shared parking agreement
may be arranged in accordance with this section. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-6: LOCATION OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
   (A)   All required parking spaces for residential uses shall be located on
the same lot as the building or use served. No parking is allowed in any
required yard except in the following cases:
      1.   Parking shall be permitted in driveways. No such parking may
encroach onto the public right of way.
      2.   Parking for three-unit or multi-unit dwellings in the R3 and R4
districts may be located within (i.e., may encroach into) the required rear
yard but is subject to site plan review in accordance with section
6-4-5, "Site Plan Review", of this title. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
   (B)   All required parking for nonresidential uses shall be located on the
same lot as, or within six hundred feet (600') walking distance of, the
building or use served. However, off street parking accessory to a
nonresidential use shall be permitted in an R1 or R2 residential zoning
district as a special use and only after compliance with all requirements as
set forth in section
6-4-3 of this title; and with respect to an R3 or R4 residential zoning
district, the accessory parking improvement may be upon contiguously owned lot
(s) immediately adjacent to and abutting or diagonal to the lot(s) being
served. Public thoroughfares shall be deemed to connect separate parcels and
not preclude a finding that parcels are adjacent, abutting, contiguous or
diagonal to each other. All such off street parking improved lots regardless of
the zoning district must and shall be subject to a covenant running with the
land upon which the parking improvement is located requiring that the parking
improved land must be sold or transferred with the nonresidential property it
is serving. Said covenant is specifically intended to ensure that there is
unified ownership of the principal lot(s) and accessory lot(s), and further
that the nonresidential property being served continues to have access to the
off street parking and that said off street parking is properly maintained by
the owner(s) of the nonresidential property being served. Accessory off street
parking permitted as a special use in an R1 or R2 district and as allowed by
this code in the R3 and R4 districts shall be subject to site plan review in
accordance with section
6-4-5, "Site Plan Review", of this title.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4497.png]
 
(Ord. 2012-08, 5-17-2012)
   (C)   In the C1 and C2 districts, off street parking lots are not permitted
at the front of the property (front lot line). (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-7: OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL:
   (A)   Where parking facilities are located on a lot separate from the
building or use served, the owner of the lot containing the building or use
shall demonstrate the right to maintain and use such parking by either of the
following:
      1.   The lot containing the building or use served and the lot containing
the parking shall have the same owner of record.
      2.   The owner of record of the lot containing the building or use served
shall have a recorded lease for the lot containing the parking.
   (B)   If the owner of a building or use no longer has the right to maintain
or use parking facilities on a separate lot (for example, when a lease expires
and is not renewed), the owner of a building or use shall have one hundred
eighty (180) days within which to accommodate all required off street parking
or to apply for a variation. If the owner is unable to accommodate the parking
or fails to apply for a variation, then the occupancy permit shall be revoked
with respect to the building or use for which the separate parking was
required. The occupancy permit shall be reinstated when all applicable
provisions of this chapter are complied with. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-8: DESIGN OF OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
All off street parking facilities shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   Dimensions: Off street parking spaces shall be at least eight and one-
half feet (8.5') in width and eighteen feet (18') in length. Parking spaces
shall have a minimum vertical clearance of seven feet (7'). See figure 8,
"Parking Space Dimensions", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4499.png]
 
   (B)   Access:
      1.   Minimal Interference: Each off street space shall open directly upon
an aisle or driveway of such width as will provide adequate means of vehicular
access to such parking space. All off street parking facilities shall be
provided with appropriate means of vehicular access in a manner that least
interferes with traffic movement and allows the driver of the vehicle to
proceed forward into traffic rather than back out.
      2.   Aisle Dimensions: All required off street parking facilities shall
have vehicular access from a street, alley, driveway or cross access
connection. Within off street parking facilities one-way traffic aisles shall
be at least sixteen feet (16') in width and two-way traffic aisles shall be at
least twenty four feet (24') in width.
      3.   Driveways:
         (a) Residential Driveways, Excluding Multi-Unit:
            (1) A residential driveway that provides access to a detached
garage shall be no more than twelve feet (12') in width. A driveway apron, the
width of the garage as measured from the garage walls, is permitted to extend
for a distance (depth) of twenty feet (20') from the garage doors before
tapering back to the required driveway width to allow access to the additional
spaces. See figure 9, "Detached Driveway Width", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4501.png]
 
            (2) A residential driveway that provides access to an attached
garage shall be no wider than the width of the garage. See figure 10, "Attached
Driveway Width", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4503.png]
 
            (3) Residential driveways must lead to garage access and must
comply with width standards as described above. In cases where a parking area,
whether enclosed (garage) or unenclosed (parking pad), is located in the rear
of a lot, a driveway may lead to the rear of a lot to access that parking area.
In such cases, the driveway width must comply with subsection (B)3(a)(1) of
this section. In no case shall a driveway be installed that does not lead to a
parking area.
         (b) Multi-Unit And Nonresidential Driveways: Except for access to
loading berths, no driveway across public property shall have a width exceeding
twenty four feet (24').
   (C)   Surfacing: All open off street parking areas shall be improved with a
hard surfaced, all weather dustless material as approved by the village
engineer. Semipervious materials such as grass crete and brick pavers may also
be used, subject to the approval of the village engineer.
   (D)   Striping: Parking lots of four (4) or more spaces shall delineate
parking spaces with paint or other permanent materials, which shall be
maintained in clearly visible condition. Parking spaces for handicapped persons
shall be identified with the appropriate sign and shall be visible at all times
of the year, regardless of snow cover, plant growth, or similar conditions.
   (E)   Curbing And Bumper Stops: Bumper stops, wheel stops, or curbing shall
be provided to prevent vehicles from damaging or encroaching upon any adjacent
parking or loading space, sidewalk, landscaped area or parking lot island,
fence, wall, or building. Curbing shall be at least six inches (6") in height.
Regardless of bumper stops or wheel stops, the length of the parking stall
shall be eighteen feet (18').
   (F)   Slope: Except for parking spaces accessory to a single-unit detached
dwelling, no area of any parking facility shall have a slope of more than five
percent (5%). No access ramp shall have a slope of more than eight percent
(8%).
   (G)   Lighting: Parking lot lighting shall be in accordance with section
6-11-2, "Exterior Lighting", of this title. Illumination of an off street
parking area shall be arranged so as to deflect the direct rays of light away
from adjacent properties and streets.
   (H)   Landscaping: All parking lots shall be landscaped in accordance with
chapter 14, "Landscaping And Screening", of this title. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-
2006)
6-12-9: ACCESSIBLE PARKING:
   (A)   Required Spaces: In all off street parking facilities where parking is
provided for employees, visitors, or both, parking spaces for disabled persons
shall be provided. The number of accessible parking spaces shall be included in
the total number of required parking spaces and shall be in accordance with the
applicable requirements of the Illinois accessibility code, as amended from
time to time, and all additional governing codes and applicable laws.
   (B)   Dimensions And Design: Such spaces shall comply with the design
standards presented in the state of Illinois accessibility code, provided that
in no instance shall the width of any one space be less than sixteen feet
(16'). Such spaces shall be identified by a sign and pavement markings
indicating parking for the disabled only. Such spaces shall be the spaces
closest to the entrance of the building or structure, and shall be connected by
a paved surface designed to provide safe and easy access. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-
2006)
6-12-10: STACKING SPACES FOR DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES:
   (A)   Design: Stacking spaces provided for drive-through uses shall be:
      1.   A minimum of nine feet (9') in width, as measured from any service
window to the edge of the driveway, and eighteen feet (18') in length. See
figure 11, "Stacking Space Design" and figure 12, "Drive Aisle Width", of this
section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4505.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4507.png]
 
      2.   Placed in a single line behind the drive-through facility.
      3.   Located so that, when in use, they do not obstruct ingress/egress to
the site and do not obstruct access to required parking or loading spaces.
      4.   For a car wash, stacking spaces shall begin behind the last vehicle
being washed. For all other drive-in uses, stacking spaces shall begin behind
the vehicle parked at a last point of service, such as a window.
   (B)   Required Spaces: Every drive-through facility shall provide a minimum
of three (3) stacking spaces per facility, unless otherwise required by table
12, "Required Off Street Parking", in section
6-12-13 of this chapter.
   (C)   Reduction Of Required Spaces: The number of required stacking spaces
may be reduced during the site plan review process if the petitioner presents a
study with quantifiable evidence (e.g., comparable information) which
demonstrates that a different requirement should be imposed. The approval of a
reduced number of stacking spaces shall apply only to the specific business for
which the study was conducted. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-11: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
The following restrictions shall apply to the parking or storage of commercial
vehicles on property zoned for residential use:
   (A)   No commercial vehicle shall be parked on any public right of way in a
residential district, except for vehicles engaged in loading or unloading, or
vehicles in connection with current work being done to the adjacent premises.
   (B)   No stored or parked commercial vehicle shall be occupied or used for
human habitation.
   (C)   Only standard sized, passenger vehicles including, but not limited to,
automobiles, vans, sport utility vehicles (SUVs) and pickup trucks are
permitted to be stored or parked outdoors overnight on residentially zoned
private property.
   (D)   Permitted commercial vehicles, as described in subsection (C) of this
section, shall include such vehicles that are owned and used for commercial
purposes by the occupant of a dwelling or guest, provided that the vehicle is
stored or parked in the permitted parking area; such permitted commercial
vehicles may include the logo of the commercial business painted on or applied
to the vehicle. All other commercial vehicles including, but not limited to,
semitruck tractor units, with or without attached trailers, commercial
trailers, buses, limousines, tow trucks, construction vehicles or other large
commercial or livery vehicles required to register for a "C-plate" in Illinois
or other classification for commercial vehicles, are not permitted to be stored
or parked outside overnight on residentially zoned property.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, “standard size” is defined as a vehicle
that does not exceed any of the following size criteria: twenty-two (22) feet
in length; eight (8) feet in width; or seven (7) feet, six (6) inches in
height; and “commercially enhanced” shall include without limitation such add-
ons as a snow plow, ladder rack, tool boxes, bar lights. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-
2006; amd. Ord. 2022-09, 5-5-2022)
6-12-12: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
For the purposes of this section, recreational vehicles shall include all
trailers, campers, motor homes, boats, popup campers, and trailers that
transport snowmobiles, wave runners, ATVs, etc.
   (A)   No recreational vehicle or trailer licensed to transport recreational
vehicles or equipment shall be parked in the public right of way or in the
driveway of a residential district for more than forty eight (48) hours.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles may be parked or stored in any zoning district
only when located in a fully enclosed permanent structure or completely
screened from view by a solid wood fence, masonry screen wall or slatted
chainlink fence at least six feet (6') in height. Temporary storage tents for
recreational vehicles shall not be considered such a structure.
   (C)   No recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes in any zoning district.
   (D)   This section does not apply to recreational vehicles offered for sale
in an approved outdoor sales and display area of a motor vehicle dealership.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-13: REQUIRED OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
   (A)   The minimum number of off street parking spaces to be provided for the
designated uses shall be as follows in table 12, "Required Off Street Parking",
of this section. Table 12 of this section lists parking requirements for the
generic uses listed within the districts. In some cases, uses which are
considered part of a generic use category are listed with specified parking
requirements. These specific uses are listed only for the purposes of this
section and do not indicate whether such uses are permitted or special uses
within any district. Certain generic uses listed within the districts do not
have parking requirements. These types of uses are not listed within table 12
of this section.
   (B)   Businesses under one thousand (1,000) square feet in gross floor area
in the R4, C1 and C2 districts are exempt from the parking requirements of
table 12 of this section. Only those businesses within the following use
categories of table 12 of this section are exempt: cultural and religious uses,
recreational and entertainment uses, and retail and service uses. Those
businesses under one thousand (1,000) square feet in gross floor area located
within a shopping center configuration (i.e., a "strip mall") shall not be
eligible for this exemption and must provide the required parking. (Ord. 2006-
37, 12-21-2006)
   (C)   In the R3, R4, C1 and C2 Districts, on street/on right-of-way parking
spaces that are located along the front or side property line may be counted
toward required off street parking spaces. New on street/on right-of-way
parking spaces may be created to count toward required off street parking but
must be located along the side or front property line, must be accessible
twenty four (24) hours a day and must provide a sidewalk a minimum of five feet
(5') in width for public access. See figure 13, "On Right-Of-Way Parking", of
this section. At least fifty percent (50%) of the width of an on street space
must be located along the property line of the property under consideration in
order to count toward off street parking requirements. See figure 14, "On
Right-Of-Way Parking Space Consideration Standard", of this section. (Ord.
2016-18, 8-18-2016)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4509.png]
 
   TABLE 12
   REQUIRED OFF STREET PARKING
Use Parking Requirement
Use                                 Parking Requirement
Residential uses:
 Dwelling, multi-unit:              1.5 per dwelling unit
 1 or 2 bedroom dwelling unit       2 per dwelling unit
 3 bedroom or more dwelling unit
 Dwelling, single-unit              2 per dwelling unit, maximum of 4
                                    spaces
 Dwelling, townhouse                2 per dwelling unit
 Dwelling, three-unit               5 spaces
 Dwelling, two-unit                 3 spaces
 Group home                         0.25 per bed, plus 1 per 2 employees
 Live/work dwelling                 2 per dwelling unit
Cultural and religious uses:
 Art gallery                        2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Convent/monastery                  1 per 1,000 square feet of residential
                                    living area
 Cultural facility                  4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Place of worship                   1 per 4 seats of maximum seating
                                    capacity
Recreational and entertainment uses:
 Club or lodge                      3 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Indoor entertainment               4 per 1,000 square feet of public use
                                    area
    Movie theater                1 per 4 seats for first 400 seats, plus
                                    1 per 6 additional seats
 Indoor recreation                  4 per 1,000 square feet of public use
                                    area
    Bowling alley                2 per lane
    Pool hall                    1 per table
 Live entertainment                 4 per 1,000 square feet of public use
                                    area
 Outdoor entertainment              2 per 1,000 square feet of public use
                                    area
 Outdoor recreation                 2 per 1,000 square feet of public use
                                    area
Government and educational uses:
 Educational facilities, college/   To be determined by the planning and
 university                         zoning administrator
 Educational facilities, primary/   To be determined by the planning and
 secondary                          zoning administrator
 Educational facilities, vocational To be determined by the planning and
 school                             zoning administrator
 Government facility                To be determined by the planning and
                                    zoning administrator
 Public safety facility             To be determined by the planning and
                                    zoning administrator
 Public works facility              To be determined by the planning and
                                    zoning administrator
Retail and service uses:
 Animal hospital                    1 per full time employee, plus 1 per 30
                                    square feet of waiting room area
 Assisted living facility           0.25 per bed, plus 1 per 2 employees
                                    1 per 2 employees, plus stacking spaces
 Car wash                           in accordance with section
                                    6-12-10 of this chapter
 Currency exchange                  4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Daycare center, adult or child     1 per 2 employees, plus 2 passenger
                                    loading spaces
                                    3 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area, plus stacking spaces in
 Financial institution              accordance with section
                                    6-12-10 of this chapter for drive-
                                    through banking facilities
                                    2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area of any accessory convenience
                                    retail and/or food service, plus
 Gas station                        stacking spaces in accordance with
                                    section
                                    6-12-10 of this chapter for accessory
                                    automatic car wash
                                    1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Greenhouse/nursery                 area of building, plus 2 per 1,000
                                    square feet of outdoor sales and
                                    display area
                                    4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Heavy retail and service           area, including outdoor sales and
                                    display area
 Hospital:                          1 per bed
 100 beds or less                   1.1 per bed
 101 to 300 beds                    1.2 per bed
 301 to 500 beds                    1.3 per bed
 500 beds or more
 Hotel/motel                        1.25 per room
 Independent living facility        0.5 per dwelling unit, plus 1 per 2
                                    employees
                                    1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Kennel                             area, plus 1 per 4 pet owners if animal
                                    training classes are taught on site
                                    (based on maximum class size)
 Medical/dental clinic              1.5 per exam room
 Motor vehicle dealership           1 per 1,000 square feet of sales and
                                    display area (indoor and outdoor)
 Motor vehicle rental establishment 1 per 1,000 square feet of display area
                                    (indoor and outdoor)
 Motor vehicle service and repair,  1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
 major or minor                     area
 Nursing home                       0.25 per bed, plus 1 per 2 employees
 Office business                    4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Payday or title loan agency        4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Personal services establishment    2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
                                    1 per 60 square feet of public seating
 Restaurant                         area (include any outdoor dining area
                                    in public seating area)
 Retail goods establishment         2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Tavern/bar                         1 per 60 square feet of public seating
                                    area
Transportation uses:
 Cargo terminal                     1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Motor vehicle operations facility  1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Passenger terminal                 1 per 1,000 square feet of terminal
                                    area
Manufacturing, storage and research uses:
 Manufacturing, light               3 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Manufacturing, medium              3 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Miniwarehouse                      1 per 10 storage units
 Research and development facility  4 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 Warehouse/distribution             1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
Open space uses:
 Cemetery                           1 per 250 square feet of office and/or
                                    chapel space
 Country club                       See applicable uses (golf course,
                                    driving range, restaurant, etc.)
 Driving range (principal use)      1 per tee
 Golf course                        4 per hole
 Zoo                                1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                    area
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-14: REQUIRED OFF STREET LOADING SPACES:
Off street loading spaces shall be provided for a building, structure, or use
which requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by
trucks or other vehicles larger than eighteen feet (18') in length, in
accordance with table 13, "Off Street Loading Requirements", of this section:
   TABLE 13
   OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
Use Type Number Of Spaces Required
Use Type                                                                       Number Of
                                                                               Spaces Required
Commercial, office or institutional uses:
   10,000 – 100,000 square feet of gross floor area                          1 loading
                                                                               space
   Each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area                     1 loading
                                                                               space
Industrial:
   5,000 – 10,000 square feet of gross floor area                            1 loading
                                                                               space
   10,001 – 40,000 square feet of gross floor area                           2 loading
                                                                               spaces
   40,001 – 100,000 square feet of gross floor area                          3 loading
                                                                               spaces
   For each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area over 100,001    1 loading
square feet of gross floor area                                                space
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-12-15: DESIGN OF OFF STREET LOADING SPACES:
   (A)   Location:
      1.   All off street loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as
the building or use served and shall not project into a street or alley.
      2.   Off street loading spaces shall be located at least twenty five feet
(25') from the intersection of any two (2) streets.
      3.   Off street loading spaces shall not be located in any front or
corner side yard.
      4.   All off street loading spaces shall be located a minimum of fifty
feet (50') from the lot line of any lot in a residential zoning district.
   (B)   Dimensions: All required off street loading spaces shall be at least
twelve feet (12') in width and at least thirty feet (30') in length, exclusive
of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a minimum vertical clearance of
at least fifteen feet (15').
   (C)   Surfacing: All off street loading spaces shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base or equal not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced
with not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some comparable all
weather, dustless material, and subject to the approval of the village
engineer.
   (D)   Access Control And Signage: Each required off street loading space
shall be designed with adequate means of vehicular access to a street or alley
in a manner which will minimize interference with traffic movement and shall be
subject to the approval of the building commissioner.
   (E)   Lighting: Loading facility lighting shall be in accordance with
section
6-11-2, "Exterior Lighting", of this title. Illumination of an off street
loading facility shall be arranged so as to deflect the direct rays of light
away from adjacent properties and streets.
   (F)   Landscaping And Screening: All loading facilities shall be landscaped
and screened in accordance with chapter 14, "Landscaping And Screening", of
this title. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 13
SIGNS
SECTION:
6-13-1: Purpose
6-13-2: Sign Permit Required
6-13-3: Sign Placement
6-13-4: Sign Dimension Computations
6-13-5: Prohibited Signs
6-13-6: Exempt Permanent Signs
6-13-7: Temporary Signs
6-13-8: General Design Standards
6-13-9: Sign Standards By Type
6-13-10: Additional Sign Standards By Zoning District
6-13-11: Master Sign Plan Required
6-13-12: Nonconforming Signs
6-13-13: Sign Area Illustrations
6-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a framework for a comprehensive
system of sign controls governing the display, design, construction,
installation, and maintenance of signs that will:
   (A)   Balance the right of individuals to identify their businesses and
convey their messages, and the right of the public to be protected against the
unrestricted proliferation of signs.
   (B)   Protect the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, and general
welfare.
   (C)   Reduce traffic hazards.
   (D)   Enhance the attractiveness of the village.
   (E)   Protect property values.
   (F)   Promote economic development.
   (G)   Preserve the right of free speech exercised through the use of signs
containing noncommercial messages. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-2: SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED:
Except as provided in section
6-13-6, "Exempt Permanent Signs", of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to erect, relocate, or structurally alter any sign or other advertising
structure as defined in this chapter, without first obtaining a sign permit
from the city in accordance with section
6-4-9, "Sign Permit", of this title, and making payment of the fee. The
building commissioner may revoke any sign permit where there has been a
violation of the provisions of this title or a misrepresentation of fact on the
sign permit application. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-3: SIGN PLACEMENT:
   (A)   Placing Signs On Public Property: No signs, other than those placed by
agencies of government or signs whose placement has been authorized by the
building commissioner, shall be erected on any public property. Any sign placed
on public property without authorization may be removed without notice.
   (B)   Placing Signs On Private Property: No signs shall be placed on any
private property without prior consent of the owner thereof and, where
applicable, issuance of a sign permit.
   (C)   View Obstruction: All signs shall comply with the view obstruction
provisions of subsection
6-11-1(G), "View Obstruction", of this title. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-4: SIGN DIMENSION COMPUTATIONS:
The following principles shall control the computation of sign dimensions:
   (A)   Computation Of Area Of Individual Signs: The area of a sign face shall
be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle or triangle, or
combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background or the display, or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but shall not include any supporting framework or bracing, unless such
framework or bracing is made part of the message or face of the sign. See
illustrations in section
6-13-13, "Sign Area Illustrations", of this chapter.
   (B)   Computation Of Area Of Multiple Faced Signs: The sign area for a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all
sign faces visible from any one point. When two (2) identical sign faces are
placed back to back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the
same time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are
not more than forty two inches (42") apart, the sign area shall be computed by
the measurement of one of the faces.
   (C)   Measurement Of Sign Height: Sign height shall be measured from a point
perpendicular to the street upon which the sign faces. This point
(perpendicular from the sign to the street) shall be at the curb level of the
street. See figure 15, "Sign Height", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4539.png]
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-5: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain the following signs:
   (A)   Advertising Benches: It shall be unlawful to erect advertising benches
that advertise a business, product, or service located on private or public
property.
   (B)   Banners: Permanent banner signs used to advertise a business, its
products or its services are prohibited. Banners may be used as temporary signs
in accordance with section
6-13-7, "Temporary Signs", of this chapter.
   (C)   Flashing Signs: No sign shall have blinking or flashing lights, or
other illuminating device that has a changing light intensity, brightness, or
color, traveling/chasing or blinking lights, or rotating beacons. Electronic
signs, which include time and temperature signs, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this subsection but shall comply with the requirements of
subsection
6-13-9(B), "Electronic Signs", of this chapter.
   (D)   Illegally Affixed Signs: Any sign painted, pasted, or otherwise
affixed to any tree, rock, utility pole, hydrant, bridge, sidewalk, curb or
street, bench or trash receptacle shall be prohibited. Logos and labels located
on mechanical equipment, recycling bins, trash containers or dumpsters, which
are part of the equipment as manufactured and/or installed, shall not be
considered illegally affixed signs.
   (E)   Moving Parts: No sign or other advertising structure shall have
moving, revolving, or rotating parts or visible mechanical movement of any
kind, unless the site plan review committee determines that such sign does not
constitute a traffic hazard. However, street clocks with movable hands, which
comply with the requirements of this title and this code, shall be permitted.
   (F)   Off Premises Signs: Off premises signs are prohibited.
   (G)   Painted On Signs: Signs painted directly on an exterior wall, fascia,
parapet, or chimney of a building or on a fence are prohibited.
   (H)   Roof Signs: Roof signs are prohibited.
   (I)   Signs Of An Offensive Nature: No sign or other advertising device
shall display any matter in which the dominant theme of the material taken as a
whole appeals to a prurient interest in sex, or is patently offensive because
it affronts contemporary community standards relating to the description or
representation of sexual matters, and is utterly without redeeming social
value.
   (J)   Signs On Parked Vehicles: Signs placed or painted on parked vehicles
where the primary purpose is to advertise a product or service, or to direct
the public to a business or activity located on or off the premises are
prohibited. Signs displayed on trucks, buses, or other vehicles, which are
being operated and stored in the normal course of a business, such as signs
indicating the owner or business that are located on delivery trucks, moving
vans and rental trucks, are permitted, provided that the primary purpose of
such vehicles is not the display of signs and that they are parked or stored in
areas appropriate to their use as vehicles. Temporary or permanent signs
resting on, or attached to, vehicles or trailers used as a means to circumvent
the provisions of this chapter are prohibited.
   (K)   Signs Which Constitute A Traffic Hazard: No sign or other advertising
structure, as regulated in this chapter, shall:
      1.   Obstruct free and clear vision at any street, intersection, parking
lot entrance or exit, or driveway.
      2.   Interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device because of its position, shape or
color.
      3.   Make use of the words "stop", "look", "detour", "danger" or any
other word, phrase, symbol or character in a manner that misleads, interferes
with, or confuses traffic.
      4.   No sign in direct line of vision of a traffic signal shall be
illuminated in red, green, or amber color, so as to resemble a traffic signal.
   (L)   Signs Which Obstruct Doors, Windows, Or Fire Escapes: No sign or other
advertising structure shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to
prevent free ingress to and egress from any door, window, or fire escape. No
sign of any kind shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
   (M)   Strobe Lights, Spotlights, And Floodlights: Strobe lights, spotlights,
and floodlights used to advertise a business or event are prohibited.
   (N)   Trailer And Portable Signs: Trailer and portable signs are prohibited.
   (O)   Unsafe Signs: No sign or other advertising structure shall constitute
a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate design, construction,
repair, or maintenance. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-18-2014)
6-13-6: EXEMPT PERMANENT SIGNS:
The following permanent signs, and sign alteration and maintenance activities
are exempt from the sign permit requirements of this title. If the limitations
set forth are violated, the penalty provisions of this title shall apply. No
exempt signs shall encroach upon the public right of way. All signs must comply
with the view obstruction requirements of subsection
6-11-1(G), "View Obstruction", of this title.
   (A)   Alteration And Maintenance Operations: The following activities shall
be exempt from sign permit requirements:
      1.   Changing of the advertising copy or message on an existing
changeable copy sign or similar approved sign, whether illuminated or
nonilluminated.
      2.   Painting, repainting, cleaning, changing permitted items of
information, or other normal maintenance and repair of a sign, not involving
structural changes or changes in the electrical components of the sign.
   (B)   Bulletin Boards: Bulletin boards not over twelve (12) square feet in
area for public, charitable or religious institutions, when located on the
premises of said institutions, shall be exempt from sign permit requirements.
   (C)   Directional Signs (Permanent): Directional signs shall be exempt from
sign permit requirements subject to the following:
      1.   Such signs shall identify the use only by means of a logo, shape, or
color with the exception of words such as "entrance" or "exit". Directional
signs shall not include words identifying or advertising the use. Directional
signs shall be located entirely on the property to which they pertain and shall
identify restrooms, public telephone, walkways, parking lot entrances and exits
and features of a similar nature.
      2.   One directional sign is permitted for each driveway access from a
public street. One additional directional sign is permitted for each
intersection of driveways within a site, to identify traffic routing,
entrances, and services, such as drive- in lanes.
      3.   Directional signs shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from
the public right of way.
      4.   Directional signs may have a maximum height of four feet (4') and a
maximum surface area of four (4) square feet.
   (D)   Flags: Flags of any government or governmental agency, or any
patriotic, religious, charitable, civic, educational, or fraternal organization
shall be exempt from sign permit requirements.
   (E)   Memorial Plaques: Memorial or commemorative plaques or tablets
denoting a building name and/or date of erection, or a location of historic
significance, and not exceeding four (4) square feet in area shall be exempt
from sign permit requirements.
   (F)   Miscellaneous Information Matter: Matter appearing on gasoline pumps,
newspaper vending boxes and other vending machines, automatic teller machines,
or matter appearing on or adjacent to entry doors such as "push", "pull",
"open" and/or "closed", or matter appearing on display windows or doors
denoting hours of operation, credit cards accepted, and similar information
shall be exempt from sign permit requirements. Service station rate signs and
the changing of copy of such signs, including the names of grades of fuel and
prices and conditions relating to prices such as full or self-service shall be
permitted without a permit.
   (G)   Municipal Signs: Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices,
railroad crossing signs, signs regulating vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or
designating or giving direction to streets, schools, historic sites or public
buildings, and such temporary emergency or nonadvertising signs shall be exempt
from sign permit requirements, but are subject to approval by the village
board. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
   (H)   Neon And/Or Light Emitting Diode ("LED") Window Signs: Neon and LED
window signs shall be exempt from sign permit requirements subject to the
following:
      1.   No neon or LED window sign or neon or LED lighting may occupy more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the total area of the window in which it is
displayed, measured by the height and width of the sign. Neon or LED window
signage shall be included in the calculation of permanent window signage in
accordance with subsection
6-13-9(H), "Window Signs (Permanent)", of this chapter, except where the neon
or LED device is used solely to outline the perimeter of the window.
      2.   Neon or LED window signage or lighting is prohibited in the R1, R2
and R3 districts. No neon or LED window signage or lighting shall be permitted
above the first floor in the R4 district. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-18-2014)
   (I)   Occupational Signs: Occupational signs denoting only the name and
profession of an occupant in a commercial building, public building or
residence, and not exceeding one square foot in area shall be exempt from sign
permit requirements.
   (J)   Warning Signs: "No Trespassing" or "No Dumping" signs, not exceeding
one and one-half (11/2) square feet per sign and not exceeding four (4) in
number per lot, shall be exempt from sign permit requirements except that
special permission may be obtained from the village for additional signs under
proven special circumstances. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-7: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs are permitted in accordance with the provisions of this
section, except that where other sections of this title regulate such signs,
the more restrictive regulation shall apply.
   (A)   Temporary Signs Exempt From Sign Permit Requirements: The following
types of temporary signs are exempt from sign permit requirements, however they
must comply with all requirements of this section and this title:
      1.   Construction and Developer Signs: Construction or developer signs
identifying the project, architect, engineer, developer, realtor and/or
contractor when placed upon a construction or development site shall be exempt
from sign permit requirements. Such signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet in area and eight feet (8') in height. Such signs shall not be erected
prior to approval of a site plan and construction signs shall be removed no
later than seven (7) days after issuance of an occupancy permit or completion
of the project, and developer signs promoting the project shall be removed
within nine (9) months following the first occupancy in the development or
within six (6) months after the completion of the development whichever is
sooner. Construction and developer signs shall be limited to one sign per
street frontage.
      2.   Directional Signs: Temporary directional signs for a real estate
open house or an event held in a public building, park, or educational
institution shall be exempt from sign permit requirements. Such signs shall be
posted no earlier than forty eight (48) hours prior to and removed no later
than twenty four (24) hours after the conclusion of the event to which the sign
relates.
      3.   Displays Or Decorations For Holidays And Special Occasions: Displays
of a primarily decorative nature, and customarily and commonly associated with
any national, local or religious holiday shall be exempt from sign permit
requirements.
      4.   "For Sale" And "For Rent" Signs:
         (a) "For Sale" And "For Rent" Property Signs: "For Sale" and "For
Rent" signs shall be exempt from sign permit requirements but shall not exceed
eight (8) square feet in area and shall only advertise the sale, rental, lease
or management of the premises upon which said signs are located. "For Sale" and
"For Lease" signs posted on commercial properties located in C3, C4, M1, or M2
district shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area and must comply
with subsection
6-13-5(K) of this chapter. Such signs shall be removed within twenty four (24)
hours of sale or lease.
         (b) "For Sale" Vehicle Signs: "For Sale" vehicle signs shall be exempt
from sign permit requirements subject to the following:
            (1) Vehicles that display a "For Sale" or similar sign shall be
parked in a lot where the sale of new or used vehicles is permitted.
            (2) A private individual may only park a vehicle with a "For Sale"
sign for display at that individual's home, including in the driveway. A
vehicle with a "For Sale" sign may not be maintained for display in the public
right of way.
            (3) A vehicle "For Sale" sign must be removed within twenty four
(24) hours of the vehicle's sale.
      5.   Garage Or Yard Sale Signs: Temporary residential garage or yard sale
signs shall be exempt from sign permit requirements provided they are limited
to no more than two (2) such signs and that such signs do not exceed four (4)
square feet each. One sign shall be permitted per lot frontage on the premises
containing the sale, or on another property with that property owner's or
tenant's permission, and are only in place when the garage or yard sale is
actually taking place.
      6.   Not For Profit Special Event Signs: Temporary signs in conjunction
with special events conducted by charitable, not for profit organizations of
the village, such as philanthropic campaigns or church activities, shall be
exempt from sign permit requirements subject to the following:
         (a) Such signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area.
         (b) Such signs shall not be erected earlier than thirty (30) days in
advance of the event and shall be removed within five (5) days of the
conclusion of the event.
      7.   Political Signs: Political signs shall be exempt from sign permit
requirements subject to the following:
         (a) Signs shall be no more than eight (8) square feet in area on each
side.
         (b) Signs shall not be posted on any public property.
         (c) Signs are to be posted on private property only, and only with the
permission of the property owner.
         (d) Such signs shall be posted no earlier than thirty (30) days prior
to, and removed no later than seven (7) days after the election or referendum
to which the sign refers.
      8.   Window Signs (Temporary): Temporary signs affixed to the inside of a
window advertising temporary commercial situations related to goods or services
sold on the premises shall be exempt from sign permit requirements, provided
that the total of all such signs shall occupy no more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the window's area. No such temporary window sign shall be in place
longer than thirty (30) days.
   (B)   Temporary Signs Requiring Sign Permit: Temporary signs which require a
sign permit shall include any sign or attention getting device such as a
banner, "A-frame" sign, pennant, balloon, advertising display constructed of
cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, or other light materials, or inflatable
advertising device, or projected video signs intended to be displayed for a
short period of time only.
      1.   Time Limit: Permits for temporary signs shall authorize the erection
or operation of said signs and their maintenance for a period not exceeding
thirty (30) days. A maximum of four (4) permits may be issued to an address per
year. There must be a minimum of thirty (30) days between permits.
      2.   Construction:
         (a) No temporary sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet in
area.
         (b) Temporary signs weighing in excess of fifty (50) pounds must be
approved by the building commissioner and must conform to the safety
requirements of the building code of the village of River Grove.
         (c) One temporary sign on each street frontage per lot shall be
permitted.
      3.   Permitted Advertising: The advertisement contained on any temporary
sign shall pertain only to the business, industry, or pursuit conducted on or
within the premises on which such sign is erected, displayed or maintained, and
shall be confined to the use, product or service, street address, phone
numbers, website, and logo or trademark associated with the primary business.
      4.   Setback: No temporary sign shall extend more than four inches (4")
over any public right of way. "A-frame" signs shall be placed in such a manner
as to allow a minimum of forty two inches (42") for pedestrian traffic to pass.
Any sign which is wholly or partially illuminated by floodlights is prohibited
unless such lights are completely concealed from view from street level. (Ord.
2014-18, 9-18-2014; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 3-17-2025)
6-13-8: GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
   (A)   Construction And Design Standards: All signs constructed, erected,
modified, or altered shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and the
requirements of this code.
   (B)   Wind Pressure And Direct Load Requirements: All signs shall be
designed and constructed to withstand a wind pressure of not less than thirty
(30) pounds per square foot of net surface area, and shall be constructed to
receive dead loads as required in this code.
   (C)   Illumination: Electronic signs, which include time and temperature
signs, shall be exempt from the provisions of this subsection but shall comply
with the requirements of subsection
6-13-9(B), "Electronic Signs", of this chapter.
      1.   No sign shall have blinking or flashing lights, or other
illuminating device that has a changing light intensity, brightness, or color,
traveling/chasing or blinking lights, or rotating beacons. No sign in direct
line of vision of a traffic signal shall be illuminated in red, green, or amber
color, so as to resemble a traffic signal.
      2.   Gooseneck reflectors and lights shall be permitted on freestanding
signs, roof signs, and wall signs; provided, however, the reflectors shall
concentrate the illumination upon the area of the sign so as to prevent glare
upon the street or adjacent property.
      3.   All sign illumination shall be designed, located, shielded, and
directed so as to prevent the casting of glare or direct light upon adjacent
publicly dedicated roadways and surrounding properties, or distract operators
of vehicles or pedestrians in the public right of way.
      4.   All illuminated signage shall be certified by the Underwriters
Laboratory (UL certified) or other nationally recognized testing laboratory.
   (D)   Landscape Requirements: Freestanding pole signs shall be landscaped at
the base of the sign in accordance with the following:
      1.   The landscaping shall extend a minimum of one foot (1') from the
sign base on all sides.
      2.   Freestanding pole signs shall be landscaped with shrubs, a minimum
of two feet (2') at planting. The remainder of the landscaped area shall be
planted with perennials, turf, or other live ground cover.
   (E)   Glass: Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be wired glass or
safety glass.
   (F)   Lettering: All letters, figures, characters, or representations in
cutout or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to, or
superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to
the sign structure.
   (G)   Limitation On Items Of Information:
      1.   So as not to create traffic hazards for passing motorists and to
minimize the cluttered appearance of signs, all signs shall limit the number of
items of information on any single sign face to no more than three (3) items.
Items of information may include: the name of the business, type of use,
product or service (if not part of the business name), street address, phone
number, website address, business logo, business slogan, or other business
information.
      2.   When more than one wall, awning, or canopy sign is proposed for any
existing building with multiple tenants, a master sign plan is required in
accordance with section
6-13-11, "Master Sign Plan Required", of this chapter.
      3.   Freestanding pole or monument signs for developments with multiple
tenants that are used to advertise which tenants are located within the
development shall be limited to one item of information per tenant within the
development, in addition to the address of the development.
   (H)   Sign And Premises Maintenance:
      1.   All signs, and the premises surrounding the sign, shall be
maintained in a clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition, and free and clear
of all noxious substances, rubbish, and weeds.
      2.   If the village shall find that any sign or other advertising
structure, as defined herein, is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the
public, or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, the village clerk shall immediately be
advised of such condition and he/she shall give written notice to the permittee
thereof. If permittee fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply
with the standards herein set forth, within twenty (20) days after such notice,
such sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this chapter, may be
removed by order of the corporate authorities at the expense of the permittee
or the owner of the property upon which it is located. The corporate
authorities may cause any other sign or other advertising structure which is an
immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and without
notice. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-9: SIGN STANDARDS BY TYPE:
All signs constructed, erected, modified, or altered shall comply with the
provisions of this title and the requirements of this code. All signs shall
comply with the additional regulations of section
6-13-10, "Additional Sign Standards By Zoning District", of this chapter.
   (A)   Awnings And Canopies:
      1.   No portion of an awning or canopy shall be less than ten feet (10')
above the level of the public sidewalk or thoroughfare over which it is
erected. No awning or canopy shall be permitted to extend beyond a point three
feet (3') inside the curb line, unless more restrictive state regulations
(Illinois department of transportation) apply along a public right of way
requiring the awning to be located entirely within property lines. See figure
16, "Awnings", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4537.png]
 
      1.   Awnings may extend to a point 3 feet inside the curb line, unless
more restrictive state regulations, such as those of the Illinois department of
transportation, apply along a public right of way requiring the awning to be
located entirely within property lines.
      2.   Awnings and canopies may be constructed out of metal, canvas or
canvaslike material, or other material approved by the building commissioner.
      3.   Awnings shall be securely attached to and supported by a building.
All frames and supports shall be made of metal or other similar rigid material.
Posts or columns beyond the building line shall not be permitted for awnings.
Canopy frameworks shall be designed by a structural engineer or manufacturer,
and approved by the building commissioner.
      4.   Only the name of the business, the service offered by such business
and/or logo may be placed on the awning and shall be limited to twenty five
percent (25%) of the surface of any side of an awning or canopy. The street
address number (no street name) may be in addition to the advertising copy and
is excluded from the twenty five percent (25%).
      5.   All awnings or canopies shall comply with the following design
standards:
         (a) Awnings and canopies shall be compatible in material and
construction to the style and character of the building. The color of the
awning or canopy shall be compatible with the overall color scheme of the
facade.
         (b) When feasible, awnings and canopies shall be generally aligned
with others nearby in order to maintain a sense of visual continuity.
         (c) Awnings and canopies shall be tailored to the opening of the
building and positioned so that distinctive architectural features remain
visible. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
   (B)   Electronic Signs:
      1.   Electronic Message Center Signs: Electronic message center signs
shall be permitted subject to the following:
         (a) Electronic message center signs shall be permitted only in the
commercial, manufacturing, and government and education districts. There shall
be only one electronic message center sign per lot.
         (b) Each message displayed on an electronic message center sign must
be static or depicted for a minimum of six (6) seconds. The continuous
scrolling of messages is prohibited.
         (c) Electronic message center signs shall be permitted as freestanding
monument signs, freestanding pole signs or wall signs, and shall be subject to
the requirements of this chapter for those sign types.
         (d) No electronic message center sign shall exceed thirty two (32)
square feet.
         (e) Electronic message center signs may be integrated into a
freestanding monument sign, freestanding pole sign or wall sign, but in no case
shall the combined sign area of such freestanding monument sign, freestanding
pole sign or wall sign and electronic message center sign exceed the permitted
maximum sign area for such freestanding monument sign, freestanding pole sign
or wall sign for that district.
         (f) The addition of an electronic message center sign to any
nonconforming sign shall be prohibited.
         (g) Electronic message center signs shall display messages including,
but not limited to, time, temperature, business name, business logo, greeting/
holiday greeting, business hours, and contact information, such as phone number
or address. No off premises advertising shall be permitted.
      2.   Electronic Display Screens: Electronic display screens shall be
permitted subject to the following:
         (a) Electronic display screens shall be permitted only in commercial,
manufacturing, and government and education districts. There shall be only one
electronic display screen per lot.
         (b) No illumination from any electronic display screen or electronic
sign shall glare into any residential premises, and commencing at dusk through
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, all such signs and display screens shall
reduce the luminous intensity of such sign or display screen to no more than
seventy five percent (75%) of the luminous intensity employed during full
daylight operation, and all such signs and display screens shall be turned off
from twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. if located
adjacent to a residential district. In addition, no illumination from such
signs shall interfere with the safe movement of motor vehicles on public
thoroughfares.
         (c) Electronic display screens shall be permitted as freestanding
monument signs, freestanding pole signs or wall signs, and are subject to the
requirements of this chapter for those sign types, except as follows:
            (1) Standalone electronic display screens shall be limited to
thirty two (32) square feet.
            (2) Electronic display screens may be integrated into a
freestanding monument sign, freestanding pole sign or wall sign, but in no case
shall the combined sign area of such freestanding monument sign, freestanding
pole sign or wall sign and electronic display screen exceed the permitted
maximum sign area for such freestanding monument sign, freestanding pole sign
or wall sign for that district.
         (d) Each image displayed on an electronic display screen must be
static or depicted for a minimum of ten (10) seconds. Animated images and
images which move or give the appearance of movement are prohibited. This
restriction shall not prohibit the dissolving or replacing of one image with
another image.
         (e) The conversion or addition of an electronic display screen to any
nonconforming sign shall be prohibited.
         (f) No electronic display screen shall display messages or images of
off premises advertising. (Ord. 2014-05, 4-17-2014)
   (C)   Freestanding Monument Sign: See figures 17, "Monument Sign Height",
and 18, "Monument Sign Setback", of this section.
      1.   In the residential, C1 and C2 districts, freestanding monument signs
shall be limited to six feet (6') in height and thirty two (32) square feet in
sign area. In all other districts, such signs shall be limited to eight feet
(8') in height and fifty (50) square feet in sign area.
      2.   There shall be only one freestanding monument sign per lot, except
that on a corner lot two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
All freestanding monument signs shall be set back from the curb line a minimum
of ten feet (10'). However, no part of any freestanding monument sign shall be
located on the public right of way. Directional signs, subject to the
requirements of subsection
6-13-6(C), "Directional Signs (Permanent)", of this chapter, are permitted in
addition to other freestanding monument signs on that lot.
      3.   Freestanding monument signs shall be mounted on either a decorative
masonry or natural stone base. Where a monument sign is to be constructed for a
nonresidential use located within a brick or decorative masonry building, the
sign base shall be constructed of a decorative masonry material. In addition,
the sign base of any monument sign shall be a minimum of seventy five percent
(75%) of the width of the sign face that is to be situated upon the base. See
figure 19, "Monument Sign Base", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4535.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4533.png]
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
   (D)   Freestanding Pole Sign: See figures 20, "Pole Sign Height", and 21,
"Pole Sign Setback", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4531.png]
 
      1.   Freestanding pole signs are prohibited in the residential, C1 and C2
districts.
      2.   The maximum height of freestanding pole signs shall be limited to
twenty five feet (25') in height.
      3.   Freestanding pole signs in the C4, M1, and M2 districts are limited
to seventy (70) square feet in sign area. Freestanding pole signs in the C3
district are limited to thirty two (32) square feet in sign area except in
those cases where they are located on a corner lot. Freestanding pole signs
located on a corner lot in the C3 district may be greater than thirty two (32)
square feet in sign area and limited to seventy (70) square feet in sign area
but must first be approved by the site plan review committee.
      4.   There shall be only one freestanding pole sign per lot, except that
on a corner lot two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted. All
freestanding pole signs shall be set back from the curb line a minimum of ten
feet (10'), unless otherwise permitted by this title. However, no part of any
freestanding pole sign shall be located on the public right of way. Directional
signs, subject to the requirements of subsection
6-13-6(C), "Directional Signs (Permanent)", of this chapter, are permitted in
addition to other freestanding pole signs on that lot.
      5.   The primary support of a freestanding pole sign shall be erected in
such a manner that at least forty two inches (42") of the length of the support
is underground. This requirement may be modified based upon the size of the
sign and the height of the sign, at the discretion of the building
commissioner. The building commissioner may require, in cases of signs over ten
feet (10') in height, proper documentation from a structural engineer or
manufacturer that indicates proper installation instructions for the sign, as
well as the sign's ability to withstand wind pressures.
   (E)   Projecting Sign:
      1.   All projecting signs over twenty (20) square feet in sign area are
subject to approval of the site plan review committee.
      2.   Projecting signs shall not project more than two feet (2') from the
face of the building or other structure to which it is attached, measuring from
the point on the sign nearest the wall, and shall not project beyond any
property line. No projecting sign affixed to a building shall project higher
than the building height, including sign support structure, unless approved by
the site plan review committee. Projecting signs shall be attached at least ten
feet (10') above a sidewalk or public thoroughfare. See figure 22, "Projecting
Sign", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4529.png]
 
      1.   Projecting signs may extend to a point 2 feet from the curb, unless
more restrictive state regulations, such as those of the Illinois department of
transportation, apply along a public right of way requiring the projecting sign
to be located entirely within property lines.
      3.   Projecting signs, including frames, braces, and supports shall be
designed by a structural engineer or manufacturer. No projecting sign shall be
secured with wire, strips of wood or nails nor shall any projecting sign be
hung or secured to any other sign. Any movable part of a projecting sign such
as the cover of a service opening shall be securely fastened by chains or
hinges.
      4.   Projecting signs exceeding ten (10) square feet in area or fifty
(50) pounds in weight shall neither be attached to, nor supported by, frame
buildings nor the wooden framework of a building. Such signs shall be attached
to a masonry wall with galvanized expansion bolts at least three-eighths inch
(3/8") in diameter, which shall be embedded in the wall at least five inches
(5").
      5.   If a projecting sign is illuminated from its exterior, any
reflectors shall concentrate the illumination upon the area of the sign and
prevent glare upon the street or adjacent property. No floodlight, spotlight or
reflectors of the gooseneck type shall be permitted on projecting signs.
Lettering or advertising designs illuminated from the interior shall be
composed of transparent or semitransparent materials approved by the building
commissioner.
      6.   V-shaped signs consisting of two (2) single face signs erected on a
roof shall not be permitted. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-18-2014)
   (F)   Street Clock:
      1.   The dial of street clocks shall be not more than forty two inches
(42") in diameter.
      2.   Any glass forming a part of a clock or the sign thereon shall be
safety glass, or plate glass at least one-fourth inch (1/4") thick, or an
approved plastic securely fastened thereto by metal hinges.
      3.   Clocks supported on any building or structures shall not be less
than fifteen feet (15') above the sidewalk, and shall not project from the face
or wall of the building or structure to a point more than two feet (2') inside
the curb line, unless more restrictive state regulations (Illinois department
of transportation) apply along a public right of way requiring the street clock
to be located entirely within property lines. See figure 23, "Street Clocks",
of this section.
      4.   No advertising shall be placed upon any street clock.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4527.png]
 
1.   Street clocks may extend 2 feet from the face of the building and over the
public right of way, unless more restrictive state regulations, such as those
of the Illinois department of transportation, apply along a public right of way
requiring the street clock to be located entirely within property lines.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
   (G)   Wall Sign:
      1.   Wall signs shall be constructed of wood or metal. Any other material
shall require approval by the building commissioner.
      2.   No wall sign, including sign support structure, affixed to a
building shall project beyond the ends or top of the wall to which it is
attached.
      3.   Wall signs shall be affixed flat against the building wall and shall
not project more than twelve inches (12") into the public right of way. No wall
sign shall cover wholly or partially any wall opening. See figure 24, "Wall
Sign", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4525.png]
 
      4.   A wall sign shall not exceed eighty (80) square feet in sign area.
      5.   Wall signs shall be safely and securely attached to the building
wall. All wall signs of solid face construction shall be safely and securely
attached to the building wall by means of metal anchors, bolts, or expansion
screws of not less than three- eighths inch (3/8") in diameter embedded in said
wall at least five inches (5"). However, such signs may rest in, or be bolted
to, strong, heavy metal brackets or saddles set not over six feet (6') apart,
each of which shall be securely fixed to the wall as hereinbefore provided. In
no case shall any wall sign be secured with strips of wood or nails.
   (H)   Window Signs (Permanent):
      1.   Permanent window signs affixed to or painted on the inside of a
window and advertising the business, the service offered by such business and/
or logo may occupy no more than twenty five percent (25%) of the surface of
each windowpane.
      2.   The total of all window signs, including both temporary and
permanent window signs, shall not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the
total window area. Temporary window signs shall be subject to the regulations
of subsection
6-13-7(A)8, "Window Signs (Temporary)", of this chapter.
      3.   Neon or LED window lighting shall be exempt from sign permit
regulations in accordance with subsection
6-13-6(H), "Neon And/Or Light Emitting Diode ("LED") Window Signs", of this
chapter. However, any neon or LED window signage shall be included in the
twenty five percent (25%) limitation of permanent window signage. (Ord. 2014-
18, 9-18-2014)
6-13-10: ADDITIONAL SIGN STANDARDS BY ZONING DISTRICT:
   (A)   Residential Districts:
      1.   Residential Nameplates: Residential uses are permitted nameplates,
subject to the following regulations:
         (a) Single-, Two- Or Three-Unit Dwelling Or Townhouse Dwelling: A
nameplate shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area and shall indicate only
the name or name and address of the occupant. There shall be no more than one
such nameplate for each dwelling, provided that it is affixed to the dwelling
flat against the door or on the wall adjacent thereto, or may be located
elsewhere on an accessory building or structure or piece of land within the
boundaries of the lot.
         (b) Multi-Unit Dwelling: For a multi-unit dwelling, a nameplate may
not exceed nine (9) square feet in area, provided it indicates only the name or
name and address of the building, but not located higher than one story, or
twenty feet (20') above curb level, whichever is lower. Such a nameplate may
also be in the form of a freestanding sign, provided it is no nearer to the
curb line than one-half (1/2) the depth of the required front yard and does not
exceed four feet (4') in height.
      2.   Nonresidential Uses In Residential Districts: The following signs
are permitted for nonresidential uses within residential districts:
         (a) Awnings And Canopies: Awnings and canopies shall be permitted in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b) Electronic Signs: Electronic message center signs shall be
permitted only in the R4 district in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. Electronic display screens shall be prohibited in all residential
districts.
         (c) Freestanding Monument Signs: Freestanding monument signs shall be
permitted in accordance with the provisions set forth in this chapter subject
to the following standards:
            (1) There shall be no more than one freestanding monument sign per
lot, except that on a corner lot two (2) such signs, one facing each street,
shall be permitted. All signs shall be located on the same lot as the principal
use.
            (2) No freestanding monument sign shall exceed thirty two (32)
square feet of display surface area.
            (3) The minimum setback from the curb line shall be ten feet (10').
            (4) Freestanding monument signs shall be limited to six feet (6')
in height.
         (d) Projecting Signs: Projecting signs shall be permitted only in the
R4 district in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (e) Street Clocks: Street clocks shall be permitted only in the R4
district in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (f) Wall Signs: Wall signs shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
         (g) Window Signs: Window signs (permanent) shall be permitted in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (h) Signs For Special Uses: Signs for special uses within residential
districts shall comply with any additional requirements set forth by the
village board at the time the special use was approved.
   (B)   Commercial Districts And G/E District: In the commercial districts and
the G/E district, the following signs are permitted:
      1.   Residential nameplates, in accordance with subsection (A) of this
section.
      2.   Awnings and canopies shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Electronic signs shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Freestanding monument signs shall be permitted in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Freestanding pole signs shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      6.   Projecting signs shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      7.   Wall signs shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      8.   Window signs (permanent) shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      9.   Street clocks shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      10.   In a unified shopping center in single ownership or control, one
additional sign may be erected. Such sign shall not exceed seventy (70) square
feet in area when in the C4 district and sixty (60) square feet in area in
other commercial, government and education districts, shall comply with the
height requirements of the district in which it is located, and shall not
display more than the name and location of the shopping center. (Ord. 2014-18,
9-18-2014)
   (C)   Manufacturing Districts: In the manufacturing districts, the following
signs are permitted only if accessory and incidental to a permitted or special
use:
      1.   Residential nameplates, in accordance with subsection (A) of this
section.
      2.   Awnings and canopies shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Electronic signs shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Freestanding monument signs shall be permitted in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Freestanding pole signs shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      6.   Projecting signs shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      7.   Wall signs shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      8.   Window signs (permanent) shall be permitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   OS District: Each use permitted in the OS open space district shall be
permitted one identification sign not to exceed sixty four (64) square feet in
sign area. The maximum height of any freestanding sign shall be ten feet (10').
The minimum setback from the curb line for freestanding signs shall be ten feet
(10'). (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-11: MASTER SIGN PLAN REQUIRED:
   (A)   When more than one wall sign, awning, or canopy is proposed on any
building with multiple tenants, the applicant shall submit a master sign plan
for review by the site plan review committee. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-18-2014)
   (B)   A master sign plan shall provide for coordinated design for all
building mounted signage and shall include, at a minimum, criteria and
specifications for general appearance, format of message, font size and style,
lighting, location, and construction materials. Where signs are to be located
on a wall of a multi-tenant shopping center, they shall be located at a
generally uniform height on the building wall and shall not cover or overhang
any architectural feature. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-12: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Any sign lawfully existing prior to the enactment of this chapter, but which
could not be erected in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed to be a legally nonconforming sign and may continue to be in existence
with the following conditions:
   (A)   The sign must be properly maintained in a safe condition. No
nonconforming sign shall have any changes made in the words or symbols used or
the message displayed on the sign unless the sign is specifically designed for
changeable copy. Any other changes made will be to bring the nonconforming sign
into conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No nonconforming sign shall be allowed to remain after the activity,
business, or use to which it relates has been discontinued.
   (C)   If a nonconforming sign is damaged in such a manner that the estimated
expense of repairs exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, the
sign shall not be allowed to remain and must be removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve the owner or user of a legal
nonconforming sign or structure, or the owner of the property on which it is
located, from the provisions of this chapter regarding safety, maintenance, and
repair of signs and structures. However, any repainting, cleaning, or other
normal maintenance or repair hereof shall not modify the sign, structure, or
copy in any way which makes it more nonconforming. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-13-13: SIGN AREA ILLUSTRATIONS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4523.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4521.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4519.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4515.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4513.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4511.png]
 
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 14
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
SECTION:
6-14-1: Purpose
6-14-2: Landscape Plan
6-14-3: Selection, Installation And Maintenance Of Plant Materials
6-14-4: Design Standards
6-14-5: On Lot Landscaping
6-14-6: Parkway Landscaping
6-14-7: Parking Lot Landscaping
6-14-8: Parking Lot Perimeter Landscape Yard
6-14-9: Interior Parking Lot Landscaping Design Guidelines
6-14-10: Buffer Yard Guidelines
6-14-11: Screening Requirements
6-14-1: PURPOSE:
The landscaping and screening requirements established herein are intended to
preserve and enhance the appearance, public health, safety, convenience,
comfort and general welfare of the village by fostering an aesthetically
pleasing development. Proper landscaping contributes to the village in many
ways: enhancing its character and scenic beauty, providing clean air, reducing
noise, preventing erosion of topsoil, reducing the rate of storm water runoff,
providing nesting areas for birds and habitat for other wildlife, conserving
energy, and providing shade and windbreaks. These regulations are also intended
to increase the compatibility of adjacent uses, and minimize the adverse impact
of noise, dust, motor vehicle headlight glare or other artificial light
intrusions, and other objectionable activities or impacts conducted on, or
created by, adjoining or neighboring uses. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-2: LANDSCAPE PLAN:
   (A)   Landscape Plan Required: A detailed landscape plan shall be submitted
to the village as part of site plan review and shall be approved prior to the
issuance of a building permit. Single-unit and two-unit dwellings are exempt
from landscape plan requirements.
   (B)   Content Of Landscape Plan:
      1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
property lines, easements, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights of way,
sidewalks, ground signs, refuse disposal and recycling areas, sidewalks,
bicycle paths and parking facilities, fences, electrical equipment,
recreational facilities, drainage facilities, and other freestanding
structures, as determined necessary by the building commissioner.
      2.   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and common, of
all existing plant materials, including trees and other material in the right
of way, and indicating plant material to be retained and removed.
      3.   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and common, of
all proposed plant material including, but not limited to, shade trees, shrubs,
ground cover, annuals/perennials and turf.
      4.   The existing and proposed grading of the site indicating contours at
two foot (2') intervals. Proposed berming shall be indicated using one foot
(1') contour intervals.
      5.   Elevations of all fences and retaining walls proposed for location
on the site.
      6.   Elevations, cross sections, and other details as determined
necessary by the building commissioner.
   (C)   Minor Changes To Approved Landscape Plans: Minor changes to the
landscape plan that do not result in a reduction in the net amount of plant
material as specified on the approved landscape plan shall be approved by the
building commissioner. Changes to the size and species of plant materials of an
approved landscape plan shall not be permitted. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-3: SELECTION, INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PLANT MATERIALS:
   (A)   Selection: All planting materials used shall be of good quality and of
a species capable to withstand the climate extremes of northeastern Illinois,
as well as the individual site microclimates. Size and density of plant
material, both at the time of planting and at maturity, are additional criteria
that shall be considered when selecting plant material. Where applicable, the
use of drought and salt tolerant plant material is preferred.
   (B)   Installation: All landscaping materials shall be installed in
accordance with the current planting procedures established by the American
Association of Nurserymen. To the extent possible, all plant materials shall be
free of disease and shall be installed so that sufficient soil and water are
available to sustain healthy growth.
   (C)   Required Element: Landscape materials depicted on landscape plans
approved by the village shall be considered to be required site plan elements
in the same manner as buildings, parking and other improvements. As such, the
owner of the premises, and any lessee, shall be jointly and severably
responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all landscape
materials, fences, and barriers over the entire life of the development.
   (D)   Maintenance: All landscaping materials shall be maintained in good
condition, shall present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance, and shall be
kept free of refuse and debris. Any dead, unhealthy, or missing plants shall be
replaced within six (6) months of notification by the village. Fences and
barriers shall be maintained in good repair. The owner of the premises shall be
responsible for the maintenance, repair, and replacement of all landscape
materials, fences, barriers, and refuse disposal areas. Irrigation systems, if
provided, shall be maintained in good operating condition to promote the health
of the plant material and the conservation of water. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
Landscape plans, as described above, shall be prepared, evaluated, and approved
based on the following design criteria:
   (A)   Scale And Nature Of Landscaping Material: The scale and nature of
landscaping materials shall be appropriate to the size of the structures.
   (B)   Selection Of Plant Material: Plant material shall be selected for its
form, texture, color, pattern of growth and suitability to local conditions.
   (C)   Shade Trees: All shade trees shall have a minimum trunk size of two
and one-half inches (2.5") in caliper at planting, unless otherwise specified
by the village.
   (D)   Evergreen Trees: Evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six
feet (6') at planting and shall be incorporated into the landscape treatment of
a site, particularly in those areas where year round screening and buffering is
required.
   (E)   Ornamental Trees: Single stem ornamental trees shall have a minimum
trunk size of two inches (2") in caliper at planting, unless otherwise
specified. Multiple stem ornamental trees shall have a minimum height of seven
feet (7') at planting, unless otherwise specified by the village.
   (F)   Shrubs: Unless otherwise specified, all large deciduous and evergreen
shrubs shall have a minimum height of three feet (3') at installation, and all
small deciduous and evergreen shrubs shall have a minimum height of eighteen
inches (18") at installation. Large shrubs shall be considered to be those
shrubs that reach five (5) or more feet in height at maturity. Small shrubs
shall be considered to be those shrubs that are below five feet (5') in height
at maturity.
   (G)   Softening Of Walls And Fences: Plant material shall be placed
intermittently against long expanses of building walls, fences and other
barriers to create a softening effect and to help break up long expanses of
blank walls with little architectural detail.
   (H)   Planting Beds: Planting beds shall be mulched with bark chips,
shredded hardwood, feather rocks, or similar materials. Mulch shall not be used
as a substitute for plant materials.
   (I)   Irrigation: Landscape design pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter shall recognize the need for irrigation and water conservation.
Sprinkler irrigation systems may be required for certain landscaped areas, as
determined by a professional landscape architect. The need for sprinkler
irrigation systems shall be determined by the type of plant material and
whether there is a permanent means available to water plant material, such as
hose bibs. All irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize the use of
water.
   (J)   Energy Conservation: Plant material placement should be designed to
reduce the energy consumption needs of the development.
      1.   Deciduous trees should be placed on the south and west sides of
buildings to provide shade from the summer sun.
      2.   Evergreens and other plant materials should be concentrated on the
north and west sides of buildings to dissipate the effect of winter winds.
   (K)   Preservation Of Existing Trees: Effort should be made to preserve and
protect existing trees with trunk diameters in excess of six inches (6").
Construction equipment and personnel shall be kept away from such trees and
their root systems by the installation and maintenance of fencing at the drip
line of trees or a distance of six feet (6') around the trunk, whichever is
less. See figure 25, "Tree Fencing", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4545.png]
 
   (L)   Berming: Earthen berms and existing topographic features shall be
incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site where there is sufficient
space and, in particular, when berms and existing topographic features can be
combined with plant material to facilitate effective screening. (Ord. 2006-37,
12-21-2006)
6-14-5: ON LOT LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Turf Required: All yards within the village shall be landscaped
primarily with live turf or other plant materials.
   (B)   Required Trees:
      1.   Shade trees shall be provided for all multi-unit developments, at a
minimum of one tree per five hundred (500) square feet of total lot area minus
the area of the building.
      2.   Shade trees shall be provided for office and commercial developments
at a minimum of one tree per five hundred (500) square feet of total lot area
minus the area of the building.
      3.   Shade trees shall be provided for manufacturing developments at a
minimum of one tree per one thousand (1,000) square feet of total lot area
minus the area of the building. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-6: PARKWAY LANDSCAPING:
The following requirements shall apply to parkways (those areas within the
public right of way located between the curb and the sidewalk). All parkways
shall be landscaped in conformance with this title and other provisions within
this code and with the approval of the building commissioner. This shall
involve improving the ground surface of the parkway with ground cover or turf,
and includes parkway trees and/or shrubs. In some cases, hard surface
treatments may be permitted by the building commissioner.
   (A)   Parkway Trees:
      1.   Parkway trees shall be planted at the equivalent of one tree for
every forty (40) linear feet. Where appropriate, parkway trees may be clustered
or spaced differently as determined appropriate by the building commissioner.
      2.   A variety of compatible species should be included in the planting
plan for a specific site or development. The selecting of tree species shall be
reviewed and approved by the building commissioner with particular regard for
site appropriate species.
   (B)   Other Landscape Materials: The remainder of the ground surface area
within the parkway shall consist of maintained plantings. Brick pavers, gravel,
asphalt, ground cover and shrubs exceeding eighteen inches (18") in height at
maturity, and concrete, except in conjunction with driveways and walkways, are
only permitted within the parkway with the approval of the department of public
works. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-7: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Required Parking Lot Landscaping: All those portions of a parking lot
that abut a street shall provide a perimeter landscape yard in accordance with
section
6-14-8, "Parking Lot Perimeter Landscape Yard", of this chapter. See figure 26,
"Parking Lot Landscaping", of this section.
   (B)   Parking Lot Landscaping Design Guidelines: All parking lots of four
(4) or more spaces are subject to site plan review and a landscape plan as a
condition of obtaining a building permit. For those parking lots of ten (10) or
more spaces, the interior parking lot landscaping design guidelines of section
6-14-9, "Interior Parking Lot Landscaping Design Guidelines", of this chapter
shall apply. The site plan review committee may require compliance with certain
of these design guidelines as part of site plan approval. Nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to prevent the applicant's voluntary installation of
additional interior parking lot landscaping, so long as parking space
requirements and parking lot design requirements are complied with. See figure
26, "Parking Lot Landscaping", of this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4543.png]
 
   (C)   Existing Parking Lots: For existing parking lots that currently do not
contain the required perimeter parking lot landscaping or if the site plan
review committee determines that additional interior landscaping in accordance
with section
6-14-9, "Interior Parking Lot Landscaping Design Guidelines", of this chapter
is required, such landscaping shall be provided when:
      1.   A new principal building or building addition is constructed.
      2.   Exterior remodeling of the building occurs.
      3.   An existing parking lot is expanded by ten (10) or more spaces.
      4.   Over twenty percent (20%) of the total area of an existing parking
lot is reconstructed.
      5.   When there is an ownership conversion, such as a rental apartment
building converting to condominium ownership.
Resealing or restriping of an existing parking lot, which does not entail
paving or resurfacing by replacement of the asphalt or concrete, shall not be
subject to this requirement. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-8: PARKING LOT PERIMETER LANDSCAPE YARD:
A perimeter landscape yard is intended to enhance and screen parking lots from
the street, and to provide a uniform scheme of landscaping along the street
frontage.
   (A)   Applicability: Perimeter landscaping is required for all portions of a
parking lot that abut the street.
   (B)   Width Of Perimeter Landscape Yard: A perimeter landscape yard shall be
a minimum of five feet (5') in width and shall require six inch (6") curbing.
This shall exclude any bumper overhang.
   (C)   Required Landscaping Improvements: The following landscape
improvements shall be provided within the perimeter landscape yard:
      1.   Amount Of Landscaping: A landscape treatment shall run the full
length of the perimeter landscape yard.
      2.   Trees: One tree shall be planted every forty (40) linear feet of
yard length. Trees may be clustered based on specific site requirements, as
approved by the site plan review committee.
      3.   Shrubs And/Or Pedestrian Walls And Berms:
         (a) For every three feet (3') of perimeter yard length, one shrub,
measuring a minimum of two feet (2') at planting and reaching a minimum of four
feet (4') in height at maturity.
         (b) The number of shrubs may be reduced or combined with a berm, which
is accentuated with landscape plantings and turf, or with a low pedestrian
wall, so long as an effective screening is provided to a height of four feet
(4'), as approved by the site plan review committee.
         (c) Where feasible, plant materials shall be installed between the
sidewalk and the pedestrian wall to provide a softening effect on the wall.
      4.   Ground Cover: Landscaped areas outside of shrub and tree masses
shall be planted in turf or other live ground cover. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-9: INTERIOR PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING DESIGN GUIDELINES:
The following design guidelines shall be used by the site plan review committee
in determining what interior parking lot landscaping shall be required as a
condition of site plan approval. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the applicant's voluntary installation of additional interior parking
lot landscaping, so long as parking space requirements and parking lot design
requirements are complied with.
   (A)   Location And Amount: One parking lot island should be provided between
every ten (10) parking spaces. Rows of parking spaces should be terminated by a
parking lot island.
   (B)   Size: Where parking lot islands are required, they shall be the same
dimension as the parking stall. Double rows of parking shall provide parking
lot islands that extend the entire width of the double row. Parking lot islands
shall be at least six inches (6") above the surface of the parking lot and
protected with concrete curbing, except where an island is designed
specifically for the absorption of storm water.
   (C)   Type Of Landscape Material: Shade trees should be the primary plant
materials used in parking lot islands and landscaped areas. Ornamental trees,
shrubbery, hedges and other plant materials may be used to supplement the shade
tree plantings.
   (D)   Quantity Of Landscape Material: A minimum of one shade tree should be
provided for every parking lot island. If the island extends the width of a
double row, then two (2) shade trees should be provided. Additional landscaped
areas within the parking lot should provide a minimum of one shade tree for
every three hundred (300) square feet of landscaped area.
   (E)   Ground Cover: A minimum of seventy five percent (75%) of every parking
lot island or landscaped area should be planted in turf or other live ground
cover. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-10: BUFFER YARD GUIDELINES:
   (A)   This section establishes guidelines for the dimensions and improvement
requirements of buffer yards as transitions between uses and/or districts. The
following guidelines shall be used by the site plan review committee where they
determine that buffer yards shall be required as a condition of site plan
approval, as well as the design of these yards. Nothing in this chapter shall
be deemed to prevent the applicant's voluntary installation of buffer yards to
these design specifications.
   (B)   Where buffer yards are required, they shall be provided in interior
side yards and rear yards. (See figure 27, "Buffer Yard", of this section.)
Buffer yards may be located within required yards, and shall be reserved for
the planting of material and installation of screening as required by this
section. No parking, driveways, sidewalks, accessory buildings, or other
impervious surfaces shall be permitted within the buffer yard area. The site
plan review committee shall have the discretion to require additional landscape
material than that described in these guidelines, where necessary.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4541.png]
 
   (C)   All plantings in the buffer yard shall be in accordance with the
design standards of this chapter. The minimum size and improvement of buffer
yards for various situations shall be as follows:
      1.   R4, C1 And C2 Districts, And Nonresidential Uses In Residential
Districts: Where a lot in an R4, C1 or C2 district abuts an R1, R2 or R3
district, or where a nonresidential use is located within any residential
district, a buffer yard a minimum of five feet (5') in width, a solid opaque
screen fence or wall six feet (6') in height, a berm and/or combination thereof
may be required. Within the required landscape buffer, the following
improvements shall be provided:
         (a) Shade trees planted on an average of one tree for every thirty
feet (30') of the yard length.
         (b) A solid opaque screen fence or wall six feet (6') in height
erected along one hundred percent (100%) of the yard length.
         (c) Areas not planted with trees shall be maintained as turf or other
ground cover. If required by the village, this buffer shall be supplemented
with shrubs.
      2.   C3, C4, M1 And M2 Districts: Where a lot in a C3, C4, M1 or M2
district directly abuts any residential district, a buffer yard a minimum of
ten feet (10') in width may be required. Within the required buffer yard, the
following improvements shall be provided:
         (a) A mix of shade trees and evergreen trees planted on an average of
one tree for every twenty feet (20') of the yard length.
         (b) A solid opaque screen fence or wall six (6) to eight feet (8') in
height erected along one hundred percent (100%) of the yard length. A berm,
planted with the above required plant material may be substituted for the
screen fence or wall, where approved by the site plan review committee.
         (c) Areas not planted with trees maintained as turf or other ground
cover. If required by the site plan review committee, this buffer shall be
supplemented with shrubs. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-14-11: SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Refuse Disposal Dumpsters: Refuse disposal dumpsters in all zoning
districts shall be screened on three (3) sides by a solid wood fence, masonry
screen wall or slatted chainlink fence to a height of not less than six feet
(6') but no more than eight feet (8'). Where required, the dumpster enclosure
shall be gated, and situated on a concrete apron that extends a minimum of six
feet (6') beyond the opening of the enclosure so as to support the weight of
the waste disposal vehicle during unloading. Refuse shall not be permitted to
accumulate such that it is visible above the height of the enclosure. This
requirement shall not apply to recycling containers and devices.
   (B)   Loading Berths: Loading berths in all zoning districts shall be
located and oriented so as not to be visible from the street and adjacent
properties, while still allowing access to the use it is serving. In addition,
loading berths in all zoning districts shall be screened as much as possible,
unless such screening is determined unnecessary by the village. Such screening
shall consist of a solid wood fence, masonry screen wall or slatted chainlink
fence to a height of not less than six feet (6') or a continuous evergreen or
dense deciduous shrub hedge, or a combination.
   (C)   Outdoor Storage And Display Areas:
      1.   Outdoor Storage Areas: All outdoor storage areas shall be completely
screened by a solid wood fence, masonry screen wall or slatted chainlink fence
at least six feet (6') in height. Where feasible, plant materials shall be
installed along the fence or wall located along public rights of way to provide
a softening effect. No materials stored outdoors shall be of a greater height
than that of the required fence, wall or hedge.
      2.   Outdoor Display Areas:
         (a) When the rear or side yard of an outdoor display area abuts a
residential district, or the rear yard is separated from a residential district
by an alley, the outdoor display area shall be effectively screened from view
by a solid wood fence, masonry screen wall, or dense hedge at least six feet
(6') in height. Chainlink fencing is prohibited.
         (b) All outdoor display areas shall be designed with a landscaped yard
along the public right of way, excluding alleys, a minimum of five feet (5') in
width and planted with shade or evergreen trees at a rate of one tree per
twenty five feet (25'), and supplemented with shrubs and perennials to enhance
the view from the public right of way. These outdoor display area screening
requirements are not intended to prohibit openings reasonably necessary for
access drives and walkways.
         (c) Motor vehicle dealerships or rental establishments with outdoor
sales and display lots shall be designed with a perimeter landscaped yard
meeting the landscaping requirements of this section, but such plantings may be
clustered. However, the yards of these establishments that abut a street may be
planted with small shrubs and/or a low pedestrian wall, rather than shade or
evergreen trees, to optimize the view of motor vehicles for sale.
         (d) Growing areas for nursery stock for greenhouses/nurseries shall be
considered a landscaped yard. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 15
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
6-15-1: Purpose
6-15-2: General Standards Of Applicability
6-15-3: Nonconforming Use Of Land, Buildings, Or Structures
6-15-4: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
6-15-5: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
6-15-6: Vertical Extension Of Nonconforming Side Walls
6-15-7: Nonconforming Signs
6-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
buildings, structures, lots, or uses, and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses shall be
gradually eliminated upon reaching the end of their respective normal useful
life. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-15-2: GENERAL STANDARDS OF APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Authority To Continue: Any nonconforming building, structure, lot, or
use that existed lawfully at the time of the adoption hereof, and which remains
nonconforming, and any such building, structure, lot, or use that has become
nonconforming upon the adoption date hereof or any subsequent amendments
thereto, may continue subject to the provisions of this chapter so long as it
remains otherwise lawful.
   (B)   Burden On Property Owner To Establish Legality: In all cases, the
burden of establishing the legality of a nonconformity under the provisions of
this title, as of the effective date hereof, shall be upon the property owner
of the nonconforming building, structure, lot or use and not upon the village.
   (C)   Safety Regulations: All police power regulations enacted to promote
public health, safety, convenience, comfort, and general welfare including, but
not limited to, all building, fire, and health codes shall apply to
nonconforming buildings and structures. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-15-3: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND, BUILDINGS, OR STRUCTURES:
This section regulates land, buildings, or structures on the effective date
hereof which are used for purposes that are not permitted in the zoning
district in which they are located, unless the use was authorized as a special
use or variation.
   (A)   Ordinary Repairs And Maintenance: Normal maintenance and incidental
repair or replacement may be performed on any building or structure that is
devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use, provided it will not create
any new nonconformity, increase the degree of nonconformity, or increase the
bulk of the building or structure in any manner.
   (B)   Structural Alterations: No structural alterations shall be performed
on any building or structure devoted to a nonconforming use, except in the
following situations:
      1.   When the alteration is required by law or is necessary to restore
the building or structure to a safe condition upon the order of any official
charged with protecting the public safety.
      2.   When the alteration will result in eliminating the nonconformity.
      3.   When the alteration will not create any new nonconformity, increase
the degree of any existing nonconformity, or increase the bulk of the building
or structure in any manner.
   (C)   Expansion Of Use: A nonconforming use of land, buildings, or
structures shall not be expanded, extended, enlarged, or increased in
intensity. Such prohibited activity shall include, without limitation:
      1.   Expansion of any building or structure devoted entirely to a
nonconforming use.
      2.   An expansion or extension of a use or its accessory uses to any land
area, building, or structure other than that occupied by such nonconforming
use, on the effective date hereof.
      3.   An expansion or extension of such use, including its accessory uses,
within a building or other structure, to any portion of the floor area that was
not occupied by such nonconforming use on the effective date hereof.
   (D)   Relocation: A nonconforming use of land, buildings or structures shall
not be relocated in whole or in part to any other location on the same lot or
parcel, or to any other lot or parcel, unless the use shall thereafter conform
to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is relocated, unless the
lot or parcel to which it is relocated permits the nonconforming use.
   (E)   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any use
other than a use permitted within the zoning district in which it is located.
When such a nonconforming use has been changed in whole or in part to a
permitted use, the whole or part which has been made to conform may not
thereafter be changed back to a use that is not permitted. A change of use
shall be deemed to occur when an existing nonconforming use has been terminated
and a permitted use has commenced. Any change in use in violation of this title
shall be deemed an abandonment of the previously existing lawful nonconforming
use.
   (F)   Discontinuation Or Abandonment: If a nonconforming use is
discontinued, or becomes vacant, and remains unoccupied for a continuous period
of one hundred eighty (180) days, regardless of the intent to resume or not to
terminate the use, such use shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall not be
reestablished or resumed. Any subsequent use or occupancy of such land,
building or structure shall comply with all regulations of the zoning district
in which such land, building, or structure is located. The period of such
discontinuance caused by government action, acts of God, or other acts without
any contributing fault by the user, shall not be included in calculating the
length of discontinuance for this section.
   (G)   Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   In the event that any building, structure and/or property that is
devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use, is damaged or destroyed, by
any means not within the control of the property owner or tenant, to the extent
of fifty percent (50%) or more of its replacement value at that time, then the
building or structure shall not be restored or rebuilt unless the building or
structure, including foundation and use thereof, thereafter conforms to all
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
The replacement value of the building, structure and/or property, which is
devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use, shall be based on: a) the
sale of that building, structure, and/or property within the previous year or,
if that is not applicable; b) an appraisal within the last two (2) years or, if
that is not available; c) the amount for which building, structure, and/or
property was insured prior to the date of damage or destruction or; d) an
alternative method determined acceptable by the village.
      2.   When such building, structure, and/or property that is devoted in
whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, by any means
not within the control of the property owner or tenant, to the extent of less
than fifty percent (50%) of the replacement value at that time, the building,
structure, and/or property may be repaired, reconstructed, or restored provided
that no new nonconformities are created and that the existing degree of
nonconformity is not increased. A building permit shall be obtained for such
rebuilding, restoration, repair, or reconstruction within one year of the date
of damage or destruction, and construction shall be completed within one year
of issuance of the building permit.
      3.   In the event that the permit is not obtained within one year or that
repairs or restoration are not completed within one year of the issuance of the
building permit, then the building or structure and the use thereof shall not
be restored unless that use conforms to all regulations of the district in
which it is located.
      4.   In the event that any building or structure that is devoted in whole
or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed by means within the
control of the property owner or tenant, the building, structure, and/or
property and use thereof shall comply with all requirements of this title.
   (H)   Nonconforming Secondary Living Units: In the case of living space
located within and/or above a detached garage, such use shall be deemed a legal
nonconforming use and subject to the provisions of this section. However, due
to issues of safety, proper egress, lack of adequate parking and overcrowding
within residential neighborhoods, such use of secondary living space/secondary
living units must be discontinued within ten (10) years of the date of adoption
hereof. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-15-4: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
This section regulates buildings and structures, existing on the effective date
hereof, which do not conform to the yard, height, lot coverage, or other
dimensional or bulk provisions of this title.
   (A)   Ordinary Repairs And Maintenance: Normal maintenance and incidental
repair or replacement may be performed on any nonconforming building or
structure. No repairs or reconstruction shall be made that would create any new
nonconformity, increase the degree of any previously existing nonconformity, or
increase the bulk of the building in any manner.
   (B)   Structural Alterations: No structural alterations shall be performed
on any nonconforming building or structure, except in the following situations:
      1.   When the alteration is required by law or is necessary to restore
the building or structure to a safe condition upon the order of any official
charged with protecting the public safety.
      2.   When the alteration will result in eliminating the nonconformity.
      3.   When the alteration will not create any new nonconformity or
increase the degree of any existing nonconformity. The only exception shall be
that any structural alteration of any single- unit or two-unit dwelling in a
residential district shall be permitted provided that the proposed structural
alteration meets all applicable building height, setback, and lot coverage
requirements.
   (C)   Additions And Enlargements: A building or structure that is
nonconforming with respect to its bulk shall not be added to or enlarged.
   (D)   Relocation: A nonconforming building or structure shall not be
relocated in whole or in part to any other location on the same zoning lot or
parcel, or to any other zoning lot or parcel, unless the building or structure
thereof shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in
which it is relocated.
   (E)   Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   In the event that any nonconforming building or structure is damaged
or destroyed, by any means not within the control of the property owner or
tenant, to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its replacement value
at that time, then the building or structure shall not be restored or rebuilt
unless the building or structure, including foundation, thereafter conforms to
all regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
The replacement value of the building or structure shall be based on: a) the
sale of that building or structure within the previous year or, if that is not
applicable; b) an appraisal within the last two (2) years or, if that is not
available; c) the amount for which the building, structure, or property was
insured prior to the date of the damage or destruction or; d) an alternative
method determined acceptable by the village.
      2.   When such building or structure is damaged or destroyed, by any
means not within the control of the property owner or tenant, to the extent of
less than fifty percent (50%) of the replacement value at that time, it may be
repaired and reconstructed provided that no new nonconformities are created and
that the existing degree of nonconformity is not increased. A building permit
shall be obtained for such rebuilding, restoration, repair, or reconstruction
within one year of the date of damage or destruction, and the construction
shall be completed within one year of issuance of the building permit.
      3.   In the event that the building permit is not obtained within one
year, or that repairs are not completed within one year of the issuance of the
building permit, then the building or structure shall not be restored unless
the building or structure conforms to all regulations of the district in which
it is located.
      4.   In the event that any nonconforming building or structure is damaged
or destroyed by means within the control of the property owner or tenant, the
building or structure, as restored or repaired, shall comply with all
requirements of this title.
   (F)   Nonconforming Secondary Living Units: In the case of detached
secondary living units (such as "coach houses"), such units shall be deemed
legal nonconforming structures and subject to the provisions of this section.
However, due to issues of safety, proper egress, lack of adequate parking and
overcrowding within residential neighborhoods, such detached secondary living
units must be removed within ten (10) years of the date of adoption hereof.
(Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-15-5: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
This section regulates lots of record, existing on the effective date hereof,
which do not conform to the lot area or lot width requirements of the district
in which they are located. No nonconforming lot of record may be improved
except in compliance with this section.
   (A)   Individual Lots Of Record In Residential Districts: In residential
districts, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
title, a single-unit dwelling may be erected on a single nonconforming lot of
record provided that the lot is in separate ownership and it meets all other
zoning district bulk requirements.
   (B)   Lots Of Record Held In Common Ownership: If on the effective date
hereof, in situations where there are two (2) or more lots of record with
continuous frontage in single ownership, and one or more of the lots having
contiguous frontage does not meet the requirements for lot width or lot area as
established by this title, the land so involved shall be considered to be a
single undivided parcel for the purposes of this title. No portion of said
parcel shall be used, transferred or conveyed which does not meet the lot width
and lot area requirements established by this title. No division of the parcel
shall be made which leaves the remaining lot(s) with lot width or lot area
below the requirements of this title. No building permit shall be issued for
the use of any lot, or portion of a lot, transferred or conveyed in violation
of this section. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-15-6: VERTICAL EXTENSION OF NONCONFORMING SIDE WALLS:
In an effort to accommodate additions to existing single-unit and two-unit
homes, the extension of a nonconforming side wall vertically, which does not
meet the minimum side yard requirement, is permitted without a variation,
subject to the following:
   (A)   The extended building wall shall not create any additional
nonconformities on the site.
   (B)   The extended wall shall not encroach any closer to the applicable
property line.
   (C)   The maximum lot coverage and building height shall not be exceeded.
   (D)   The side yard is a minimum of two feet six inches (2'6") in width.
Side yards less than two feet six inches (2'6") in width shall not be permitted
to extend vertically without a variation. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-15-7: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
The provisions for nonconforming signs are contained within section
6-13-12, "Nonconforming Signs", of this title. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
CHAPTER 16
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6-16-1: Definitions Generally
6-16-2: Generic Use Definitions Generally
6-16-3: Generic Use Definitions
6-16-4: General Definitions
6-16-1: DEFINITIONS GENERALLY:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   (B)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
tense includes the present.
   (C)   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive.
   (D)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (E)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof, and any word appearing in parentheses, between a word and its
definition herein, shall be construed in the same sense as that word. Words
herein not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with the definitions
considered to be normal dictionary usage.
   (F)   The words and terms in this chapter, wherever they occur in this
title, shall be construed as herein defined. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-2006)
6-16-2: GENERIC USE DEFINITIONS GENERALLY:
   (A)   Certain terms in this chapter are defined to be inclusive of many uses
in order to eliminate overly detailed lists of uses in the zoning districts
established by this title. These terms shall be referred to in this title as
"generic use definitions".
   (B)   A use that is not specifically listed in a zoning district or does not
fall within a generic use definition as defined in this chapter, or as
interpreted pursuant to section
6-4-11, "Zoning Interpretation", of this title, is prohibited. (Ord. 2006-37,
12-21-2006)
6-16-3: GENERIC USE DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Residential Uses:
    DWELLING, ABOVE THE GROUND FLOOR OF OFFICE OR COMMERCIAL: Dwelling units
located in multi-story buildings above the ground floor of office or commercial
uses.
   DWELLING, MULTI-UNIT: A building containing four (4) or more individual
dwelling units with varying arrangements of party walls and entrances, and each
dwelling unit having an individual entrance to a common hallway or the
outdoors. "Dwelling, multi- unit" shall not include "dwelling, townhouse" as
defined herein.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-UNIT: A building containing one individual dwelling unit,
which is located on an individual lot and is not attached to any other dwelling
unit.
   DWELLING, THREE-UNIT: A building designed as a single structure, containing
three (3) separate dwelling units, each of which is designed to be occupied as
a separate permanent residence for one household or family. Each dwelling is
separated from the other by a wall extending from the ground to the roof or a
ceiling and floor extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a
common stairwell exterior to all dwelling units. "Dwelling, three-unit" shall
not include "dwelling, multi- unit" or "dwelling, townhouse" as defined herein.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: A structure consisting of not less than three (3)
dwelling units, with no other dwelling, or portion of other dwelling, directly
above or below, each having a separate entrance and direct ground level access
to the outdoors, and connected to the other dwelling units by a single party
wall with no opening. "Dwelling, townhouse" shall not include "dwelling, multi-
unit" or "dwelling, three-unit" as defined herein. "Dwelling, townhouse" refers
to the design of a building and does not reflect the type of ownership of the
individual units.
   DWELLING, TWO-UNIT: A building designed as a single structure, containing
two (2) separate dwelling units, each of which is designed to be occupied as a
separate permanent residence for one household or family. Each dwelling is
separated from the other by a wall extending from the ground to the roof or a
ceiling and floor extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a
common stairwell exterior to both dwelling units. "Dwelling, two-unit" shall
not include "dwelling, multi- unit" or "dwelling, townhouse" as defined herein.
   GROUP HOME: A residential building housing physically or developmentally
disabled people living together with resident staff. A "group home" constitutes
a single housekeeping unit in which residents share responsibilities, meals and
recreation.
   LIVE/WORK DWELLING: Buildings, or spaces within buildings, used jointly by
the same person or household for commercial and residential purposes. Arts
related activities, such as painting, photography, sculpture, music and film,
conducted within a dwelling and where one-third (1/3) of the gross floor area
is devoted to such work or studio space are also considered "live/work
dwellings".
   (B)   Cultural And Religious Uses:
    CONVENT/MONASTERY: A building or group of buildings designed to provide
group housing for persons under religious vows or orders.
   CULTURAL FACILITY: This use includes services open to the public including,
but not limited to, museums, cultural centers, historical societies, aquariums,
and libraries operated by a public, private or nonprofit organization.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP: A building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related
social events and which building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
religious ceremonies and purposes. For the purposes of this title, "places of
worship" that include primary or secondary educational facilities shall be
categorized within the government and education district as an "educational
facility, primary/secondary". "Places of worship" with daycare facilities or
weekly religious instruction (also called "Sunday school") shall be categorized
as a "place of worship" and shall not be included within the government and
education district.
   (C)   Recreational And Entertainment Uses:
    INDOOR ENTERTAINMENT: Predominantly spectator uses conducted within an
enclosed building including, but not limited to, movie theaters and sport or
game matches or exhibitions. "Indoor entertainment" shall include accessory
uses, such as snack bars or refreshment stands, which are designed and intended
primarily for the use of patrons. "Indoor entertainment" shall not include
"indoor recreation" or "live entertainment" as defined herein. "Indoor
entertainment" is distinguished from "indoor recreation" in that the
predominant use is spectator oriented and not participatory.
   INDOOR RECREATION: Predominantly participant uses where recreational
activities or games of skill are conducted within a wholly enclosed building
including, but not limited to, a bowling alley, billiard parlor, arcade,
health/sport clubs, indoor tennis courts, indoor sports arenas, indoor swimming
pools, or similar uses. "Indoor recreation" shall include accessory uses, such
as snack bars or refreshment stands that are designed and intended primarily
for the use of patrons. "Indoor recreation" shall not include "indoor
entertainment" as defined herein. Park district field houses with indoor
recreation facilities are not considered "indoor recreation".
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT: A musical, theatrical, dance, cabaret, or comedy act
performed by one or more persons live. "Restaurants" or "taverns/bars" as
defined herein that regularly host such performances shall be considered "live
entertainment". Nightclubs that include dancing by patrons and guests are
considered "live entertainment". A "live entertainment" establishment may serve
alcoholic beverages and food for consumption on the premises.
   OUTDOOR ENTERTAINMENT: Predominantly spectator uses conducted outdoors in
open or only partially enclosed facilities. Typical uses include, but are not
limited to, fairgrounds, outdoor stadiums, outdoor theaters, raceways, rodeos,
music arenas, theme parks, and amusement parks. "Outdoor entertainment" shall
include accessory uses, such as snack bars or refreshment stands that are
designed and intended primarily for the use of patrons. "Outdoor entertainment"
shall not include "outdoor recreation" as defined herein.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION: Predominantly participant uses that take place outside
of a building including, but not limited to, miniature golf, swimming pools,
tennis courts, ball fields, skateboard parks, and other similar facilities.
"Outdoor recreation" shall include accessory uses, such as snack bars or
refreshment stands that are designed and intended primarily for the use of
patrons. "Outdoor recreation" shall not include "outdoor entertainment",
"parks", "golf courses", and "driving ranges" as defined herein.
   SOCIAL CLUB OR LODGE: A membership organization, which holds regular
meetings, and its premises, which cater exclusively to members and their guests
for social, intellectual, recreational or athletic purposes. A "social club or
lodge" may, subject to other regulations controlling such uses, maintain dining
facilities, serve alcohol, or engage professional entertainment for the
enjoyment of dues paying members and their guests. There are no sleeping
facilities. "Social club or lodge" shall not include "country club" as defined
herein.
   (D)   Governmental And Educational Uses:
    EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES, COLLEGE/UNIVERSITY: A postsecondary institution for
higher learning, including community colleges, that grants associate or
bachelor degrees, which may also have research facilities, and/or professional
schools that grant master and doctoral degrees. "Educational facilities,
college/university" also includes postsecondary theological schools for
training ministers, priests, or rabbis. "Educational facilities, college/
university" shall not include "educational facilities, vocational school" as
defined herein.
   EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES, PRIMARY/SECONDARY: A public, private or parochial
school offering instruction at the elementary, junior, and/or senior high
school levels. "Educational facilities, primary/secondary" also includes
secondary theological schools for training ministers, priests, or rabbis.
   EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES, VOCATIONAL SCHOOL: A school established to provide
for the teaching of industrial, clerical, managerial or artistic skills. This
definition applies to schools that are owned and operated privately for profit
and that do not offer a complete educational curriculum. "Educational
facilities, vocational school" shall not include "educational facilities,
college/university" as defined herein.
   GOVERNMENT FACILITY: A building or structure owned, operated, and/or
occupied by a governmental agency to provide a governmental service to the
public. "Government facility" includes government offices but does not include
"public safety facility" or "public works facility" as defined herein.
   PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITY: Facilities operated by public safety agencies
including fire stations and other fire prevention and firefighting facilities,
and police and sheriff substations and headquarters, including interim
incarceration facilities. The vehicles of fire and police may be dispatched,
stored, and/or maintained within the "public safety facility".
   PUBLIC WORKS FACILITY: All production, storage, transmission, and recovery
facilities for water, sewer, telephone, and other similar utilities owned or
operated by any public agency or utility, and including any municipal repair,
storage or production facility or public works yard, as well as any accessory
office or meeting room. Municipal vehicles may be dispatched, stored and/or
maintained within the "public works facility". "Public works facility" does not
include "public safety facility" as defined herein.
   (E)   Open Space Uses:
    CEMETERY: Land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including
crematoriums, mausoleums, and necessary sales and maintenance facilities.
Mortuaries shall be included when operated within the boundary of such
cemetery.
   COUNTRY CLUB: A club organized and operated primarily for social and outdoor
recreation purposes with recreation facilities for members, their families, and
invited guests.
   DRIVING RANGE: An area equipped with distance markers, clubs, balls, and
tees for practicing golf drives and putting, and which may include a snack bar
and pro shop. Miniature golf courses are not considered a "driving range".
   FOREST PRESERVE: Designated open space that preserves natural features, and
protects endangered species and critical environmental features. A "forest
preserve" can provide opportunities for passive recreation and environmental
education.
   GOLF COURSE: A tract of land laid out with at least nine (9) holes for
playing a game of golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards. A
golf course may include a clubhouse, restrooms and shelters as accessory uses.
A "driving range" as defined herein may be included as part of a "golf course".
   PARK: A noncommercial, not for profit facility designed to serve the
recreation needs of the residents of the community. "Parks" include, but are
not limited to, ball fields, football fields, soccer fields, basketball courts,
playgrounds, and park district field houses with indoor recreation facilities.
   ZOO: An area, including building or structures, which contains wild animals
on exhibition for viewing by the public.
   (F)   Retail And Service Uses:
    ADULT USE: Shall include, but not be limited to, the following, as defined
herein: adult bookstores, adult entertainment cabarets, adult hotel/motels,
adult motion picture theaters, adult novelty stores, massage parlors, and other
similar uses.
   Adult Bookstore: An establishment having at least twenty five percent (25%)
of its sales or display area devoted to books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas", or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such materials, or an establishment that
holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin
operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any
other factors showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
   Adult Entertainment Cabaret: A public or private establishment which
features topless dancers, strippers, go-go dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows, not infrequently
features entertainers who display "specified anatomical areas" or features
entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct, perform in a manner
which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or
features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged in, explicit simulation of
"specified sexual activities".
    Adult Health Spa/Sauna: A health spa, sauna or massage parlor that excludes
minors by reason of age and/or provides steam baths, heat bathing, massage,
alcohol rub, fomentation, electric or magnetic treatment, or similar treatment
or manipulation of the human body, and is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas", as
defined herein. This definition does not include health clubs, health spas,
salons or similar establishments that offer massage therapy or other
manipulation of the human body provided by a licensed massage therapist.
   Adult Hotel/Motel: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment
offering public accommodations for any form of consideration that provides
patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes or videocassette recorders, DVDs or DVD players, slides, or
other photographic reproductions for viewing or recording, characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas" and/or rents, leases or lets any room for less
than a six (6) hour period, or rents, leases or lets any single room more than
twice in a twenty four (24) hour period.
   Adult Motion Picture Theater: A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein.
   Adult Novelty Store: An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
novelties, lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for "specialized sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas", or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor
of such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
   Massage Parlor: An establishment providing massages, for hire, by persons
other than a licensed healthcare professional, that rub, stroke, knead, or tap
the body with the hand or an instrument, or both, for the purposes of or
engaging in sexual gratification or as related to "specified sexual
activities". This does not include any licensed or sanctioned athletic or
medical rehabilitation activity that generally employs or use the services of a
physical trainer. In addition, this does not include massage offered by a
licensed massage therapist within a health club, day spa or beauty services
establishment.
   Specified Anatomical Areas: 1.Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
2.Human genitals in a discernable turgid state, even if completely and opaquely
covered.
   Specified Sexual Activities: 1.Human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal;
2.Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
3.Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breasts.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL: An establishment for the care and treatment of the diseases
and injuries of animals and where animals may be boarded during their
convalescence. An "animal hospital" shall not include "kennel" as defined
herein.
   ART GALLERY: A commercial establishment engaged in the sale, loan, and/or
display of paintings, sculpture, video art, or other works. "Art gallery" does
not include "cultural facilities" as defined herein, such as libraries, museums
or noncommercial galleries that may also display paintings, sculpture, video
art, or other works.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: Provides daily assistance and long term residence
for disabled or elderly individuals, and includes a combination of housing,
supportive services, personalized assistance and healthcare designed to respond
to the individual needs of those who need help with activities of daily living,
such as dressing, grooming, bathing, etc. An "assisted living facility" shall
not include "independent living facility", "group home", or "nursing home" as
defined herein.
   CAR WASH: A commercial establishment engaged in the washing and cleaning of
passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles, or other light duty equipment,
whether automatic or by hand.
   CURRENCY EXCHANGE: A commercial use that exchanges common currencies, sells
money orders, or cashier's checks and cashes checks as its principal business
activity. "Currency exchange" shall not include a "financial institution" as
defined herein.
   DAYCARE CENTER, ADULT: A facility providing care for more than three (3)
elderly and/or functionally impaired adults in a protective setting for less
than twenty four (24) hours per day. "Adult daycare center" does not include a
program operated by a "place of worship" as defined herein that provides care
for elderly and/or functionally impaired adults in a protective setting for
less than twenty four (24) hours per day.
   DAYCARE CENTER, CHILD: A facility providing care for more than three (3)
children in a protective setting for less than twenty four (24) hours per day.
"Child daycare center" does not include a program operated by an "educational
facility" (all types) or "place of worship" as defined herein that provides
care for children three (3) years of age or older for less than twenty four
(24) hours per day.
   DAYCARE HOME, ADULT: A dwelling in which a permanent occupant of the
dwelling provides care for the elderly and/or functionally impaired adults in a
protective setting for more than three (3) and up to a maximum of twelve (12)
adults for less than twenty four (24) hours per day.
   DAYCARE HOME, CHILD: A dwelling in which a permanent occupant of the
dwelling receives more than three (3) and up to a maximum of twelve (12)
children for less than twenty four (24) hours per day. The number counted
includes the family's natural or adopted children and all other persons under
the age of twelve (12). The term does not include facilities which receive only
children from a single household.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY: Premises used to provide or dispense products or
services, through an attendant, window, or automated machine, to persons
remaining in motor vehicles in a designated stacking aisle. A "drive-through
facility" may be in combination with other uses, such as a "financial
institution", "personal services establishment", "retail goods establishment"
or "restaurant" as defined herein. A "car wash", "gas station" or "motor
vehicle service and repair (major and minor)" shall not be considered to
maintain a "drive-through facility" as defined herein.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: A bank, savings and loan, credit union, mortgage
office, or automated teller machine (ATM). "Financial institution" shall not
include "currency exchange" as defined herein.
   GAS STATION: That portion of property where flammable or combustible liquids
or gases used as fuel are stored and dispersed from fixed equipment into the
fuel tanks of motor vehicles.
   GREENHOUSE/NURSERY: Retail business whose principal activity is the selling
of plants grown on the site and having outside storage, growing or display.
   HEAVY RETAIL AND SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: This use includes retail and/or
service establishments that have regular outdoor service or storage areas, or
partially enclosed structures including, but not limited to, large scale home
improvement centers, lumberyards, equipment rental and leasing, recreational
vehicles, and playground equipment sales and rental.
   HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on in a dwelling unit by a resident
thereof, provided that the use is limited in extent and secondary to the use of
the dwelling unit for residential purposes and does not alter the residential
character of the dwelling unit or the character of the neighborhood. "Home
occupation" does not include "live/work dwelling" as defined herein.
   HOSPITAL: An institution providing health services primarily for inpatient,
or medical or surgical care for the sick or injured, and including the related
facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities,
central service facilities, and staff offices that are an integral part of the
facility.
   HOTEL/MOTEL: An establishment providing, for a fee, sleeping accommodations
and customary lodging services, including maid service, the furnishing and
upkeep of furniture and bed linens, and telephone and desk service. Related
ancillary uses may include, but shall not be limited to, conference and meeting
rooms, restaurants, taverns/bars, and recreational facilities.
   INDEPENDENT LIVING FACILITY: A residential complex containing dwellings
where the occupancy is limited to persons who are fifty five (55) years of age
or older or, if two (2) persons occupy a unit, at least one shall be fifty five
(55) years or older. Such facilities may include common areas for meals and
socializing, offer minimal convenience services, but exclude institutional care
such as medical or nursing care. An "independent living facility" shall not
include "assisted living facility", "group home", or "nursing home" as defined
herein.
   KENNEL: An establishment where pet animals owned by another person are
temporarily boarded for pay or remuneration of any sort. "Kennel" shall not
apply to zoos or animal hospitals operated by veterinarians duly licensed under
the law where the boarding of animals is accessory to medical treatment.
   MEDICAL/DENTAL CLINIC: A facility operated by one or more physicians,
dentists, chiropractors or other licensed practitioners of the healing arts for
the examination and treatment of persons solely on an outpatient basis.
   MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERSHIP: Any business establishment that sells or leases
new or used automobiles, trucks, vans, trailers, recreational vehicles, boats
or motorcycles, or other similar motorized transportation vehicles. An
automobile dealership may maintain an inventory of the vehicles for sale or
lease either on site or at a nearby location and may provide on site facilities
for the repair and service of the vehicles sold or leased by the dealership.
   MOTOR VEHICLE RENTAL ESTABLISHMENT: Rental of automobiles and light trucks
and vans, including incidental parking and servicing of vehicles for rent.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SERVICE AND REPAIR, MAJOR: Such use includes, but shall not be
limited to, establishments involved in engine rebuilding, major reconditioning
of worn or damaged motor vehicles or trailers, towing and collision service,
including body, frame, or fender straightening or repair, and painting of motor
vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SERVICE AND REPAIR, MINOR: Such use includes, but is not
limited to, minor repairs to motor vehicles, including repair or replacement of
cooling, electrical, fuel and exhaust systems, brake adjustments, relining and
repairs, wheel servicing, alignment and balancing, repair and replacement of
shock absorbers, and replacement or adjustment of mufflers and tailpipes,
hoses, belts, light bulbs, fuses, windshield wipers/wiper blades, grease
retainers, wheel bearings, and the like. "Motor vehicle service and repair,
minor" includes establishments where gasoline and/or fuel oil, and oil, grease,
batteries, tires and automobile accessories are sold in addition to the repair
facilities.
   NURSING HOME: A facility providing bed care and inpatient services on a
twenty four (24) hour per day basis for persons requiring regular medical
attention, but excluding a facility providing surgical or emergency medical
services and a facility providing care for alcoholism, drug addiction, mental
disease or communicable disease. A "nursing home" shall not include
"independent living facility", "assisted living facility", "group home", or
"hospital" as defined herein.
   OFFICE BUSINESS: An "office business", which may or may not offer services
to the public, is engaged in the processing, manipulation or application of
business information or professional expertise. An "office business" is not
materially involved in fabricating, assembling or warehousing of physical
products for the retail or wholesale market, nor is an office engaged in the
repair of products or retail services. It is characteristic of an "office
business" that retail or wholesale goods are not shown on the premises to a
customer. Examples include, but are not limited to, professional offices for
nonprofit organizations, advertising, accounting, investment services,
insurance, contracting, architecture, engineering, legal services, and real
estate services. "Office business" does not include government offices, which
are considered "government facilities" as defined herein.
   OUTDOOR DINING: A seating area located outdoors of a contiguous restaurant,
usually in addition to an indoor seating area. Outdoor seating areas for
tavern/bars, typically referred to as "beer gardens", are considered "outdoor
dining".
   PARKING LOT: An open, hard surfaced area, other than street or public way,
to be used for the storage for limited periods of time of operable passenger
automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for
compensation, free, or as an accommodation to residents of a multi-unit
dwelling, or clients and customers of a business.
   PARKING STRUCTURE: A structure composed of one or more levels or floors used
for the parking or storage of motor vehicles. A parking structure may be
totally below grade, as in an underground parking garage, or either partially
or totally above grade with those levels being either open or enclosed.
   PAYDAY OR TITLE LOAN AGENCY: An establishment providing loans to individuals
in exchange for receiving personal checks or titles to the borrowers' motor
vehicles as collateral.
   PERSONAL SERVICES ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment or place of business
primarily engaged in the provision of frequent or recurrent needed services of
a personal nature. Typical uses include, but are not limited to, beauty shops,
barbershops, shoe repair, laundromats, dry cleaners, and tailors.
   RESTAURANT: A structure in which the principal use is the preparation and
sale of food and beverages for consumption on the premises or for carryout.
"Restaurant" shall not include "tavern/bar", or snack bars or refreshment
stands accessory to "indoor or outdoor entertainment" and "indoor or outdoor
recreation" facilities as defined herein. A "restaurant" with live performances
(music, theater, etc.) is considered "live entertainment".
   RETAIL GOODS ESTABLISHMENT: A commercial enterprise that provides physical
goods, products or merchandise directly to the consumer, where such goods are
typically available for immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the
purchaser. "Retail goods establishment" shall not include "heavy retail and
service establishments" as defined herein.
   TATTOO PARLOR AND/OR BODY PIERCING STUDIO: An establishment whose principal
business activity, either in terms of operation or as held out to the public,
is the practice of: 1) placing of designs, letters, figures, symbols, or other
marks upon or under the skin of any person, using ink or other substances that
result in the permanent coloration of the skin by means of the use of needles
or other instruments designed to contact or puncture the skin; and/or 2)
creation of an opening in the body of a person for the purpose of inserting
jewelry or other decoration.
   TAVERN/BAR: An establishment serving alcoholic beverages in which the
principal business is the sale of such beverages at retail for consumption on
the premises. Snack foods or other prepared food may be available for
consumption on the premises as an accessory use only. A "tavern/bar" with live
performances (music, theater, etc.) is considered "live entertainment".
   (G)   Transportation Uses:
    CARGO TERMINAL: A facility for loading, unloading of freight for current
distribution and not warehousing. "Cargo terminal" includes truck terminals
where goods transported by truck are received, transferred, stored for the
short term and/or dispatched.
   MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATIONS FACILITY: A privately owned facility for the
dispatch, storage and maintenance of emergency medical care vehicles, taxicabs,
and other livery vehicles. "Motor vehicle operations facility" shall not
include "public works facility" or "public safety facility" as defined herein
where the vehicles of the fire, police, or other municipal departments are
dispatched, stored, and/or maintained.
   PASSENGER TERMINAL: A facility for on and off loading passengers on
passenger modes of travel including, but not limited to, buses and public rail
systems. "Passenger terminal" includes bus terminals where there are premises
designated for the transient housing or parking of buses and the loading and
unloading of passengers.
   (H)   Manufacturing, Storage And Research Uses:
    MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: The manufacturing from previously prepared materials
of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly,
treatment, and packaging of such products, and incidental storage, sales, and
distribution of such products, provided all manufacturing activities are
contained entirely within a building and noise, odor, smoke, heat, glare, and
vibration resulting from the manufacturing activity are confined entirely
within the building.
   MANUFACTURING, MEDIUM: The manufacturing of products from processed or
unprocessed raw materials, including processing, fabrication, assembly,
treatment, and packaging of such products, and incidental storage, sales, and
distribution of such products. This manufacturing may produce noise,
vibrations, illumination, or particulate that is perceptible to adjacent land
users but is not offensive or obnoxious.
   MINIWAREHOUSE: A facility used only for the storing of personal property (no
commercial storage) where individual owners control individual storage spaces
and no commercial transactions are permitted other than the rental of the
storage units.
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITY: An establishment which conducts research,
development or controlled production in the following industries:
biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical instrumentation or supplies,
communications and information technology, electronics and instrumentation, and
computer hardware and software. "Research and development facilities" do not
involve the mass manufacture, fabrication, processing, or sale of products.
   WAREHOUSE/DISTRIBUTION: The storage, wholesale and distribution of
manufactured products, supplies and equipment.
   (I)   Other:
    PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: The subdivision and/or development of a land area
as a single unified development, where certain zoning ordinance regulations,
such as bulk and use standards, are modified to allow for more flexible
planning in conformance with the planned unit development standards and
approval processes.
   TELECOM HOTEL: A telecommunication carrier facility containing equipment for
telecommunications use including switches, routers, operation centers, and
other infrastructure critical for dot com companies, internet servers, data
firms, fiber optic cable, and other technology providers. "Telecom hotel" does
not include "wireless telecommunications facility" as defined herein.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA: A specific device, the surface of which
is used to transmit and/or receive radio frequency signals, microwave signals,
or other signals transmitted to or from other antennas. "Wireless
telecommunications antenna" does not include "satellite dish antenna" as
defined in this chapter.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An unstaffed structure used to house
and protect the equipment necessary for processing telecommunications signals,
which may include air conditioning equipment and emergency generators.
"Wireless telecommunications facility" does not include "telecom hotel" as
defined herein.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: A structure designed and constructed to
support one or more "telecommunications antennas" and including all appurtenant
devices attached to it. A tower can be freestanding (solely self-supported by
attachment to the ground) or supported (attached directly to the ground and
with guywires) of either lattice or monopole construction. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-
21-2006)
6-16-4: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
ABUT: To share a common lot line or zoning district boundary without being
separated by a street or alley.
ACCESSIBILITY RAMP: A ramp or similar structure which provides wheelchair or
similar access to a building.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building located on the same lot as, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal building, the use of
which is clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal building. See
figure 28, "Accessory Building", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4585.png]
 
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure located on the same lot with the principal
building, that is detached or attached, and is customarily incidental and
subordinate to the use of the principal building.
ACCESSORY USE: A use that is customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of a lot or the main building thereon and located on the same lot
as the principal use or building.
ADDITION OR ENLARGEMENT: Any construction that increases the size of a building
or structure in terms of site coverage, height, length, width, or floor area.
ADVERTISING BENCH: Any bench that is used in whole or in part for advertising
purposes by means of a message or design painted on, printed on, affixed to or
otherwise designed as an integral part of the bench.
ALLEY: A public right of way that normally affords a secondary means of access
to abutting property.
ALTERATION: Any change in the size, shape, character, occupancy, or use of a
building or structure.
AMATEUR (HAM) RADIO EQUIPMENT: An amateur (ham) radio station licensed by the
federal communications commission (FCC), including equipment such as, but not
limited to, a tower or alternative tower structure supporting a single,
radiating antenna platform and other equipment.
ARBOR: A freestanding structure used in the garden to support vines or climbing
plants. See figure 29, "Arbor", of this definition for an example.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4583.png]
 
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE: A part, portion, or projection that contributes to the
aesthetics of a building or structure, exclusive of signs, that is not
necessary for the structural integrity of the building or structure, or to make
said building or structure habitable.
ARRAYS: A group of antennas arranged by a wireless telecommunications service
provider and placed on a tower, structure, or building at a given height
aboveground to provide the desired directional characteristics.
AWNING: A structure made of cloth, metal, or other materials affixed to a
building in such a manner that the structure may be raised or retracted to a
position against the building. For "awnings" with advertising, see definition
of Sign, Awning. See figure 30, "Awning", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4581.png]
 
BALCONY: A platform which projects from the exterior wall of a building above
the ground floor, which is exposed to the open air, has direct access to the
interior of the building, and is not supported by posts or columns extending to
the ground.
BANNER: See definition of Sign, Banner.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building located partly underground, but having
one-half (1/2) or more of its clear floor to ceiling height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground. See figure 31, "Basement", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4579.png]
 
BAY WINDOW: A window which projects outward from the building, beginning at
least two feet (2') aboveground, which does not rest on the building foundation
or on the ground. See figure 32, "Bay Window", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4577.png]
 
BERM: An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest on a site, screen
undesirable views, reduce noise or fulfill other such purposes.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of one or more
streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines,
shorelines of waterways or corporate boundary lines.
BOWLING ALLEY: Indoor facility for the sport of tenpin or duckpin bowling, with
customary accessory uses such as snack bars.
BUFFER YARD: Land area with landscape plantings and other components used to
visibly separate one use from another or to shield or block noise, lights, or
other nuisances. See figure 33, "Buffer Yard", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4575.png]
 
BUILDABLE AREA: The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard and open
space requirements of this title have been met.
BUILDABLE LOT: A lot on which a building or other structure may be erected in
conformity with zoning and building code requirements.
BUILDING: A structure entirely separated from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communicating doors or windows, or similar
openings, and having a roof supported by walls or columns for the shelter,
support, or enclosure of persons or animals.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Building.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot. A
building connected to another building only by an unenclosed structure shall be
deemed to be a separate detached building.
BUILDING HEIGHT, ACCESSORY BUILDING: The vertical distance measured from the
established average finished grade to the highest point of the roof or the
highest point of the structure.
BUILDING HEIGHT, PRINCIPAL BUILDING: The vertical distance measured from
average finished grade, or proposed finished grade:
(A)In the case of a flat roof, to the highest point.
(B)In the case of a mansard roof, to the deck line.
(C)In the case of a gable, hip or gambrel roof, to the mean point between the
eaves and the ridge.
Chimneys, spires, steeples, towers, elevator penthouses, tanks and similar
projections other than signs shall not be included in calculating the height.
See figure 34, "Building Height", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4573.png]
 
BUILDING LINE: The inner edge of any required yard or setback, and the
corresponding outer edge of the buildable area. Except as specifically provided
by this title, no portion of any building or structure may be extended to
occupy any portion of a lot outside its building lines.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official document issued by the building commissioner which
authorizes the construction, alteration, enlargement, conversion,
reconstruction, remodeling, rehabilitation, erection, demolition, moving, or
repair of a building or structure.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building which is arranged, designed, used or intended
to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families or households and
which includes, but is not limited to, the following types: single-unit
dwellings, two-unit dwellings, three-unit dwellings, townhouse dwellings and
multi- unit dwellings.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building not designed to be permanently located,
placed or affixed in the place where it is or where it is intended to be
placed.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures, and the location of the same with respect to one another, and
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(A)Size and height of buildings.
(B)Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines, streets
or other buildings.
(C)All open spaces allocated to buildings.
(D)Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
BULLETIN BOARD: Any sign with a changeable message board erected in a permanent
fashion by a public, charitable or religious institution that is erected upon
the same property as said institution.
BUSINESS: An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor and materials, or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold, or
where services are offered.
CALIPER: The American Association of Nurserymen standard for trunk measurement
of nursery stock, as measured at six inches (6") above the ground for trees up
to and including four inch (4") caliper size, and as measured at twelve inches
(12") above the ground for larger sizes.
CANOPY: Any structure, other than an awning, made of materials such as cloth,
metal, or other materials with a frame either attached to a building or
projecting from a building and carried by a frame supported by the ground or
sidewalk. For "canopies" with advertising see definition of Sign, Canopy. See
figure 35, "Canopy", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4571.png]
 
CARNIVAL/CIRCUS: A traveling or transportable group or aggregation of rides,
shows, games, or concessions or any combination thereof.
CHIMNEY: A vertical shaft of reinforced concrete, masonry, or other approved
material enclosing one or more flues, for the purpose of removing products of
combustion from solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel.
CHRISTMAS TREE SALES LOT: A retail sales operation, generally conducted wholly
outdoors, that offers for sale on a temporary, limited basis Christmas trees
and related holiday items such as wreaths and Christmas tree stands.
COLLOCATION: Placement of wireless telecommunications equipment from more than
one service or service provider on a single tower or site.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for
hire or not for hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure that complies with
all the regulations of this title, or any amendment hereto, governing bulk for
the zoning district in which such building or structure is located or is
designed or intended for a conforming use.
CONTIGUOUS: Adjoining or abutting.
DECK: A roofless outdoor space built as an aboveground platform projecting from
the wall of a building and is connected by structural supports at grade or by
the building structure.
DISTRICT: A portion of the village within which certain uniform regulations and
requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply under the provisions of
this title.
DRIP LINE: An imaginary line encircling a tree corresponding to the farthest
extension of the tree branches. See figure 36, "Drip Line", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4569.png]
 
DRIVEWAY: A paved or unpaved access strip of land providing a vehicular
connector between the public right of way of the street and a parking space or
garage of private or public property.
DWELLING: A building or structure or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
one family or household for residential purposes as a single housekeeping unit.
In no case shall a motor home, trailer coach, tent, or portable building be
considered a "dwelling".
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A dwelling designed as a single structure, containing
separate dwelling units, each of which is designed to be occupied as a separate
permanent residence for one household or family. Each dwelling is separated
from the other by a wall extending from the ground to the roof or a ceiling and
floor extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common
stairwell exterior to both dwelling units.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
DWELLING UNIT: A dwelling unit consists of a group of rooms constituting all or
part of a dwelling, which are arranged, designed, used or intended for use
exclusively as living quarters for one family or household, which include
permanently installed bathroom and kitchen facilities.
EASEMENT: Land which has been designed by lawful agreement between the owner(s)
of the land and a person(s) for a specified use only by such person(s).
EAVE: The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a building.
ENCROACHMENT: The extension or placement of any structure or building, or
component of such, into a required yard.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix.
FARMERS' MARKET: The seasonal selling or offering for sale of homegrown
vegetables or produce, occurring in a predesignated area where the vendors are
generally individuals who have raised the vegetables or produce or have taken
the same on consignment for retail sale.
FARMSTAND: A temporary open air stand or place for the seasonal selling of
agricultural produce. A farmstand is portable and capable of being dismantled
or removed from the sales site.
FENCE: An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal, or other combination of materials erected to enclose, screen, or
separate areas.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, including any gates, designed and constructed so that the
surface area of any segment of such fence contains at least fifty percent (50%)
open spaces as compared to solid materials.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence including any solid gates, which conceals from viewers in
or on adjoining properties and streets, materials stored and operations
conducted beyond it.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the horizontal areas of the several stories of a
building, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls, or in the case of
a common wall separating two (2) buildings, from the centerline of such common
wall. "Gross floor area" shall exclude basements, attics, driveways, parking
spaces, and accessory uses and structures such as swimming pools, decks, and
porches.
FLOOR AREA, NET: The sum of all floors of a building, used for human
occupation, including basements, cellars and attics, used for such purposes and
as measured from the exterior face of the walls. It does not include basements
cellars, and attics, and unenclosed porches not used for human occupation or
any floor space in accessory buildings or in the main building intended and
designed for the parking of motor vehicles in order to meet the parking
requirements of this title, or any floor space intended and designated for the
operation or maintenance of the building, i.e., heating, air conditioning,
ventilation, mechanical or electrical equipment, elevator machinery, elevator
shafts, or stairwells.
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of illumination. It is equivalent to the illumination at
all points that are one foot (1') distant from uniform source of one
candlepower.
FREQUENCY: Signifies the number of oscillations per second in a sound wave and
is an index of the pitch of the resulting sound.
GARAGE: A building, either attached or detached, used or designed to be used
for the parking and storage of vehicles by those resident upon the premises.
GAZEBO: A freestanding outdoor structure that is open sided in design for
recreational use and not for habitation. See figure 37, "Gazebo", of this
definition for an example.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4567.png]
 
GRADE: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building or structure.
GREENHOUSE, PRIVATE: A building or structure constructed chiefly of glass,
glass like or translucent material, cloth or lath, which is devoted to the
protection or cultivation of flowers or other tender plants.
HEDGE: A row of closely planted shrubs, bushes, or any kind of plant forming a
boundary or fence.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance from grade to the highest point of a structure.
See also definitions for building height.
HOUSEHOLD: Any number of individuals living together on the premises as a
single housekeeping unit.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A measure of intensity of land use that represents the
portion of a site that is occupied by buildings, structures, pavement, and
other impervious surfaces that do not allow for the absorption of water.
INCOMPATIBLE USE: A use that is incapable of direct association with certain
other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous, or discordant.
INTENSITY OF USE: Square feet of gross floor area, number of dwelling units,
number of employees, or other factor used as a basis for requiring parking or
loading facilities.
LIGHTING, FULLY SHIELDED: A fixture that is shielded in such a manner that
light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or indirectly
from the fixture, are projected below a horizontal plane running through the
lowest point on the fixture where light is emitted.
LIGHTING, UNSHIELDED: A fixture that allows light, either directly from the
lamp or indirectly from the fixture or a reflector, to be emitted above the
horizontal plane running through the lowest point on the fixture where light is
emitted.
LOADING BERTH: A space within a loading facility exclusive of driveways,
aisles, maneuvering areas, ramps, columns, landscaping areas, office, and work
areas for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or
unloading goods or materials, and which abuts upon a street, alley, or other
appropriate means of access.
LOGO: A business trademark or symbol.
LOT: A parcel or tract of land located within a single block, occupied, or
intended for occupancy, by one principal building or principal use, and having
frontage upon a street. See figure 38, "Lot Types", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4565.png]
 
LOT AREA: The computed area contained within the lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on, two (2) or
more intersecting streets. See figure 38, "Lot Types", of this section.
LOT COVERAGE: The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or structures,
including accessory buildings or structures, expressed as a percentage of total
lot area. See figure 39, "Lot Coverage", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4563.png]
 
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot. See figure 38,
"Lot Types", of this section.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot. Where any portion of the lot
extends into an abutting street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be
the established or existing street or alley right of way line.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The lot line which abuts an existing or dedicated street. For
the purposes of this title, the "front lot line" of a corner lot shall be the
shortest street frontage of the lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is
approximately, parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot that is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a recorded subdivision, or a lot or
parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so
recorded.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) streets at opposite ends of the
lot, which is not a "corner lot". See figure 38, "Lot Types", of this section.
LOT WIDTH: The distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured by a
straight line drawn between the intersections of the side lot lines with the
front building line.
LOT, ZONING: A single tract of land located within a single block which, at the
time of filing for a building permit, is designated by its owner or developer
as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single
ownership or control. A "zoning lot" may or may not coincide with a "lot of
record".
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit extending from a support structure,
parallel to the ground, consisting of a light source and all necessary
mechanical, electrical and decorative parts. A "luminaire" does not include a
pole or other support.
MARQUEE: A permanent roof like structure constructed of durable material
extending from part of the wall of a building but not supported by the ground.
MEMORIAL PLAQUE: A sign, tablet, or plaque memorializing a person, event,
structure, or site.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled wheeled vehicle designed primarily for
transportation of persons or goods along public streets.
MOVIE THEATER: A theater designed for showing movies or motion pictures.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name, address or profession of the person or
persons occupying the lot or a part of the building.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot of record that does not meet the lot area or lot width
requirements of this title for the zoning district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE, BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: An existing use, building or
structure, or part or appurtenance thereof, not in conformance with the
requirements of this title.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign, typically a freestanding wall or roof sign, that
advertises a business or product but is not located on the premises where the
business is located or the product is the primary product available for sale.
An "off premises sign" is also known as a billboard.
OFF STREET PARKING: The storage space for an automobile on premises other than
streets or right of way.
ON RIGHT OF WAY PARKING: The storage space for an automobile that is located
within the street right of way. See figure 40, "On Right Of Way Parking", of
this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4561.png]
 
OPTION TO BUY: A right given by the owner of property to another to buy certain
property within a limited time at an agreed price.
OUTDOOR DISPLAY AND SALES AREA: Part of a lot used for outdoor sales and/or
display of goods accessory to the principal use.
OUTDOOR STORAGE: The keeping of any goods, material, merchandise or equipment
not within an enclosed building, including incidental maintenance and repair of
the material which is being stored.
OWNER: A titleholder of record, or if title is held in trust, the beneficiary
of the trust.
PARKWAY: The area, excluding the sidewalk, if any, between the property line
and the curb or, in the absence of a curb, between the property line and the
nearest edge of the street paving.
PARTY WALL: A wall starting from the foundation and extending continuously
through all stories to or above the roof, that separates one building from
another, but is in joint use by each building.
PATIO: An impervious surface, no higher than one foot (1') above the ground,
designed and intended for recreational use by people and not as a parking
space.
PEDESTRIAN WALL: An upright structure of building material, such as masonry or
plaster, serving to enclose, divide, or protect an area.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire, and explosive hazards, or glare of heat
generated by or inherent in use of land or buildings.
PERGOLA: A freestanding structure usually consisting of parallel colonnades
supporting an open roof of girders and cross rafters. A "pergola" is built as
an outdoor sitting area with lattice or open slat roof for partial shade. See
figure 41, "Pergola", of this definition for an example.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4559.png]
 
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
PERSON WITH A DISABILITY: Any individual whose disability:
(A)Is attributable to mental, intellectual or physical impairments or a
combination of mental, intellectual, or physical impairments.
(B)Is likely to continue for a significant amount of time or indefinitely.
(C)Results in functional limitations in three (3) or more of the following
areas or major life activities:
      1.   Self-care.
      2.   Receptive or expressive language.
      3.   Learning.
      4.   Mobility.
      5.   Self-direction.
 6. Capacity for independent living.
      7.   Economic self-sufficiency.
(D)Reflects the person's need for a combination and sequence or special
interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment, or other services which are of a
lifelong or extended duration.
POOL HALL: Establishments that provide, as a principal use, pool tables or
billiard tables or a combination thereof for customer use.
PORCH: A structure, which can be enclosed or unenclosed, that projects from the
exterior wall of a building, has direct access to the street level of the
building, and is covered by a roof or eaves.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A nonaccessory building in which a principal use of the lot
on which it is located is conducted.
PRINCIPAL USE: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from an
accessory use.
PROPERTY LINE: The lines bounding a zoning lot.
PUBLIC USE AREA (For Parking Standard Calculations): The area within a use
where the public or a substantial number of the public has access to,
including, but not limited to, such areas as dining rooms, restrooms, bar
seating, display areas, etc.
PUMPKIN PATCH: A retail sales operation, generally conducted wholly outdoors,
that offers for sale on a temporary, limited basis pumpkins and related holiday
(Halloween) items.
REAL ESTATE MODEL UNIT: A residential unit temporarily used for display
purposes as an example of dwelling units available or to be available for sale
or rental in a particular subdivision or other residential development. Model
units may also incorporate sales or rental offices for dwellings within the
development.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit, which is designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use, and which is self-
propelled, mounted on or pulled by another vehicle. Examples include, but are
not limited to, a travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, motor home,
fifth wheel trailer, or van.
REFUSE: All waste products resulting from human habitation or the conduct of
business or industry, except sewage.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN: An identification sign used to indicate the
entrance to a subdivision or unified residential area.
RETAINING WALL: A raised area of soil with the top leveled, supported around
the edges by stone or timber, designed to resist lateral earth and/or fluid
pressures, including any surcharge. This definition of "retaining wall" shall,
for the purposes of this title, include terracing used in landscaping. See
figure 42, "Retaining Wall", of this definition for an example.
   FIGURE 42: RETAINING WALL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4557.png]
 
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: A dish antenna designed for transmitting signals to a
receiver or receiving station or for receiving television, radio, data,
communication or other signals from other antennas, satellites, or other
services.
SECONDARY LIVING UNIT: A detached secondary residential dwelling unit located
on the same lot as a single-family dwelling unit, either located within a
detached accessory structure, typically referred to as a "coach house". Also
that living space within a detached garage, typically in the space above the
ground floor parking stalls.
SETBACK: The required minimum distance from a lot line to a building or
structure, or other improvement on a lot. See figure 43, "Setback", of this
definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4555.png]
 
SHADE TREE: A deciduous tree planted primarily for its high crown of foliage or
overhead canopy. A large shade tree is over forty feet (40') in height. Medium
shade trees are between twenty five (25) and forty feet (40') in height. Small
shade trees reach up to twenty five feet (25') in height.
SHED: A relatively small accessory building often purchased prebuilt or as a
kit in prefabricated sections. It is not designed to be served by heat,
electricity, or plumbing and does not need to be placed on a permanent
foundation. A "shed" is typically intended to store lawn, garden, or pool care
equipment.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of retail and other commercial establishments that is
planned, owned and managed as a single property. The center's size and
orientation are generally determined by the market characteristics of the trade
area served by the center. The two (2) main configurations of shopping centers
are malls and strip centers.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, illustration or attention
getting device which is affixed to or painted or represented directly or
indirectly upon a building or other outdoor surface or lot, and which directs
attention to a person, business, product, service, place, organization or
entertainment. "Sign" shall not include the flag of any nation, state or
governmental entity.
SIGN, A-FRAME: An advertising device ordinarily in the shape of an "A", or some
variation thereof, located on the ground, not permanently attached and easily
movable, and usually two (2) sided. See figure 44, "A-Frame Sign", of this
definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4553.png]
 
SIGN, AWNING: A sign that is mounted or painted on, or attached to, an awning.
SIGN, BANNER: Any sign printed or displayed upon cloth or other flexible
material with or without frames.
SIGN, BENCH: See definition of Advertising Bench.
SIGN, CANOPY: A sign that is painted on, printed on, or attached to a canopy.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL: A sign that identifies parking lot entrances and exits,
restrooms, public telephones, walkways, parking lot entrances and exits, and
features of a similar nature.
SIGN, DIRECTORY: A sign that serves as common or collective classification for
a group of persons or businesses operating on the same zoning lot (e.g.,
shopping center, office complex, etc.). Such sign may name the persons or
businesses included, but carry no other advertising matter.
SIGN, ELECTRONIC: Signs whose alphabetic, pictographic, or symbolic
informational content can be changed or altered on a fixed display screen
composed of electrically illuminated segments. For the purposes of this title,
"electronic signs" shall be regulated as one of the two (2) following types:
(A)Electronic Display Screen: A sign, or portion of a sign, that displays an
electronic image or video, which may or may not include text. This definition
includes television screens, plasma screens, digital screens, flat screens, LED
screens, video boards, and holographic displays.
(B)Electronic Message Center: Any sign or portion of a sign that uses changing
lights to form a sign message or messages in text form wherein the sequence of
messages and the rate of change is electronically programmed and can be
modified by electronic processes.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign that is attached to a completely self- supporting
structure. The supporting structure shall be set firmly in and/or below the
ground surface and shall not be attached to any building or structure, whether
portable or stationary. A freestanding sign may be a pole or monument sign. See
also definition of Sign, Freestanding - Monument and Sign, Freestanding - Pole.
SIGN, FREESTANDING - MONUMENT: Any sign, other than a pole sign, placed upon or
supported by the ground independently of any other structure. "Freestanding
monument signs" are typically mounted on a masonry base. See also definition of
Sign, Freestanding.
SIGN, FREESTANDING - POLE: A sign erected and maintained on one or two (2)
freestanding mast(s) or pole(s) and not attached to any building, but not
including "freestanding monument signs". See also definition of Sign,
Freestanding.
SIGN, MUNICIPAL: A sign erected and maintained pursuant to, and in discharge
of, any municipal functions or as required by law, including, but not limited
to, speed limit signs, stop signs, village limit signs, street name signs,
historical or government sites, and directional signs.
SIGN, NONCONFORMING: A sign lawfully erected and maintained prior to the
adoption hereof that does not conform to the requirements of this title.
SIGN, OCCUPATIONAL: A sign indicating the name and profession of an occupant of
the lot or a part of the building.
SIGN, OFF PREMISES: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at any location other than
upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, POLITICAL: A sign advocating action on a public issue or recommending a
candidate for public office.
SIGN, PORTABLE: A sign whose principal supporting structure is intended, by
design and construction, to be used by resting upon the ground for support and
may be easily moved or relocated for reuse. Portable signs shall include, but
are not limited to, signs mounted upon a trailer, wheeled carrier or other
nonmotorized mobile structure, with wheels or with wheels removed.
SIGN, PROJECTING: Any sign that is attached to a building or other structure,
and extends beyond the surface of the building or structure to which it is
attached.
SIGN, ROOF: Any sign wholly erected, constructed, or maintained upon or above
the roof structure or parapet of any building with the principal support
attached to the roof structure. See figure 45, "Roof Sign", of this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4551.png]
 
SIGN SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Any structure that supports, or is capable of
supporting, a sign, including decorative cover.
SIGN, WALL: A sign mounted flat against and projecting less than twelve inches
(12") from the wall of a building or structure with the exposed face of the
sign in a plane parallel to the face of the wall. "Wall sign" shall not include
"window sign" as defined herein.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign attached to, placed upon, or printed on the interior or
exterior of a window or door of a building intended for viewing from the
exterior of such a building. A "window sign" may be either permanent or
temporary.
STOOP: An exterior floor typically, but not necessarily, constructed of
concrete and/or masonry, with a finished floor elevation higher than the
adjacent ground level, often with steps leading up to it, and utilized
primarily as an access platform to a building.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor and
the surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling or roof above it. See figure 46, "Story", of
this definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4549.png]
 
STREET: An improved right of way that affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
STREET LEVEL: The story of a building that has its floor at the closest level
to the street, with direct pedestrian access to that story from the outside.
STREET WALL: The wall of a building nearest to and facing on a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building or
structure, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial change in the roof or exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground.
SWIMMING POOL: A receptacle for water and/or an artificial pool of water over
twenty four inches (24") in depth, or with a surface area exceeding two hundred
fifty (250) square feet either at a private residence intended only for the use
of the individual owner, his family and friends, or at a multiple-unit
residence intended only for the use of the tenants of the building, their
families and friends. "Swimming pool" does not include portable or temporary
type of pools of plastic, rubberized cloth or similar material installed above
ground level.
TEMPORARY CONTRACTOR TRAILER: This use includes watchmen's trailers,
construction equipment sheds, contractor trailers and similar uses incidental
to a construction project and sales of homes within a newly constructed
development.
TEMPORARY STORAGE CONTAINER: Temporary self-storage containers delivered to
residential or commercial uses for the resident or business owner to store
belongings, and then picked up and returned to a warehouse until called for.
Also known as "PODS" (portable on demand storage containers).
TEMPORARY STORAGE TRAILER: This use includes watchmen's trailers, construction
equipment sheds, contractor trailers and similar uses incidental to a
construction project and sales of homes within a newly constructed development.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, PERMITTED: A use permitted in a zoning district without the need for
special administrative review and approval, upon satisfaction of the standards
and requirements of this title.
USE, SPECIAL: A use that owing to some special characteristics attendant to its
operation or installation is permitted in a zoning district only after review,
and is subject to approval by the village board.
VARIATION: A decision of the board of zoning appeals that, if approved by the
village board, permits an applicant to depart from the precise regulations of
this title. A variation may be granted only in the specific instances
authorized in this title and only in accordance with the standards of this
title.
YARD: A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from
its lowest level to the sky, except for obstructions specifically permitted by
this title. A yard extends along a lot line for a depth specified by the zoning
district in which such lot is located. See figure 47, "Yards", of this
definition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b518201967cd2446c3afa06b8d82ae81bbc4ac13/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4547.png]
 
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A side yard on a corner lot which faces a public street. See
figure 47 of this section.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending the full width of the lot between side lot lines
for the required minimum depth, as specified by the zoning district in which
such lot is located, measured perpendicular to the front lot line. See figure
47 of this section.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A side yard which does not abut a street right of way. See
figure 47 of this section.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending between the side lot lines for the required
minimum depth, as specified by the zoning district in which such lot is
located, measured perpendicular to the rear lot line. See figure 47 of this
section.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and rear
yard, for the required minimum depth, as specified for the district in which
such lot is located, measured perpendicular to the side lot line. See figure 47
of this section.
ZONING AMENDMENT, MAP: A change in the zone boundaries or area district
boundaries upon the zoning map.
ZONING AMENDMENT, TEXT: A change in the wording, context, or substance of the
zoning ordinance.
ZONING CERTIFICATE: A zoning certificate which authorizes buildings,
structures, or uses consistent with the terms of this zoning ordinance for the
purpose of carrying out and enforcing its provisions. (Ord. 2006-37, 12-21-
2006)
TITLE VII
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Permits, When Required, Limitation Of Time
7-1-1.1: License, Permit Bond And Insurance Required
7-1-2: Permits, How Recorded, Stamped Plans
7-1-2.1: Plan Review
7-1-3: Permit Applications
7-1-3.1: Grade And Water Flow
7-1-4: Permits, Revocation
7-1-5: Plans
7-1-6: Plans, Alterations, Permission, Exceptions
7-1-7: Permit Fees
7-1-7.1: Security Deposit
7-1-8: Architect Must Certify Plans
7-1-9: Water And Street Regulations
7-1-10: Building Permit, Wrecking
7-1-11: Nonresidential And Nondwelling Unit Real Estate Buildings And
Structures
7-1-12: Building Moved Must Comply
7-1-13: Inspection Of Buildings Under Construction
7-1-14: Inspection Of Buildings Before Moving
7-1-15: Frontage Consents
7-1-16: Availability Of Materials
7-1-17: International Building Code Adopted
7-1-18: International Property Maintenance Code Adopted
7-1-19: Floodplain Regulations
7-1-20: International Mechanical Code Adopted
7-1-21: International Residential Code Adopted
7-1-22: International Fuel Gas Code Adopted
7-1-1: PERMITS, WHEN REQUIRED, LIMITATION OF TIME:
   (A)   Before proceeding with the erection, enlargement, alteration, repair
or removal of any building or structure in the Village, a permit for such
erection, enlargement, alteration, repair, or removal shall first be obtained
by the owner or the owner's agent from the Building Commissioner, and it shall
be unlawful to proceed with the erection, enlargement, alteration, repair or
removal of any building or any structural part thereof unless such permit shall
first have been obtained from the Building Commissioner. If the work or
operations called for and permitted by the said permit are not started within
ninety (90) days after the date the permit is issued, or if such work or
operations are not completed within a reasonable time and in any event within
six (6) months from the date the permit issued, then the permit shall be void,
and no operations thereunder shall be begun or completed until an extended
permit is obtained by the owner or the owner's agent, and a fee of fifty
percent (50%) of the original cost of the permit shall be paid by the owner or
the owner's agent for each extended permit. The Building Commissioner may
extend the validity of an issued permit without payment of any additional
permit fee if the Building Commissioner determines, in the Building
Commissioner's reasonable discretion, that the owner or the owner's agent has
completed a substantial portion of the work or operations called for under the
existing permit and that the remaining work or operations will be completed in
a period of six (6) months or less. (Ord. 2019-05, 2-21-2019)
   (B)   Ordinary repairs to a building, not exceeding the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) in cost, may be made without notice to the Building
Commissioner.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue any permit authorizing the
construction, erection, repair or alteration of any building or structure
unless the plans submitted for the approval of the Building Commissioner
clearly show that such building or structure with all the appurtenances,
foundations and attachments can be erected entirely within the limits of the
lot or tract of land upon which it is proposed to erect such building or
structure, and no permit to erect, repair and alter any building or structure
shall authorize the use of any part of any public highway or other public
ground for the construction or maintenance of such building or structure, and
the proposed structure, repair or alteration must comply with title VI of this
Code; provided further, that in no case shall any permit be issued authorizing
the construction, erection, repair or alteration of any building or structure
unless adequate sewer and water facilities have been fully installed and in
operation. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006)
   (D)   Should any work be commenced prior to the issuance of a permit as
required herein, a fee as indicated in section
1-27-1 of this Code shall be paid. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006; amd. Ord. 2017-18,
11-16-2017)
7-1-1.1: LICENSE, PERMIT BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Applications for general contractor, electrical contractor, heating and/or air
conditioning contractor, plumber, roofing/siding/insulation contractor, sewer
and water contractor's license and/or permit for such work within the Village,
shall be accompanied by a bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), lawful money of the United States of America, with a corporate
surety duly licensed and authorized to do such business in Illinois. Such bond
shall have the applicant as principal and name the Village as obligee; shall be
for the benefit of the Village and that of consumers dealing with the
applicant; and shall require that the applicant shall faithfully perform the
duties and otherwise comply with the Building Code and all other applicable
laws and ordinances of the Village and other regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction, and the terms of the license and/or permit. The aggregate
liability of the surety, regardless of the number of claims made against the
bond or the number of years it remains in force, shall in no event exceed the
amount of the bond. The bond may be terminated at any time upon thirty (30)
days' prior notice in writing to the Village and to the principal, addressed to
them at the Village Office. The indemnity bond shall protect the Village
against any and all damages that may arise to the public ways, and to the
Village, and to any person, in consequence or by reason of such contractor's
occupation and operation within the Village. In addition to such bond, each
contractor and subcontractor shall be required to maintain, at all times such
license is in effect, liability insurance with a minimum coverage of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. Evidence of such insurance
shall be filed with the Building Commissioner and updated periodically upon
request. In the event such insurance coverage is not maintained, the license
shall be revoked. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006)
7-1-2: PERMITS, HOW RECORDED, STAMPED PLANS:
Applications for building permits shall be made by the owner or his agent to
the Building Commissioner. Applications for permits shall be in triplicate and
shall be accompanied by drawings in duplicate showing in plan and elevation the
details of the proposed work and the materials used, with a survey plat showing
the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon and the size of the building
or buildings to be erected or altered. When such application is made, plans in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, which have been examined and
approved by the Building Commissioner, as hereinbefore provided, shall be filed
with the Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner shall then issue a
permit, and shall file such application, and shall apply to such plans a final
official stamp, stating that the drawings to which the same has been applied,
comply with the terms of this Code. The plans so stamped shall then be returned
to the applicant. True copies of so much of said plans, as may be required in
the opinion of the Building Commissioner to illustrate the features of
construction and equipment of the building referred to, shall remain on file in
the Building Commissioner's Office. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006)
7-1-2.1: PLAN REVIEW:
All drawings and plans for the construction, erection, repair or alteration of
any building or other structure for which a permit is required, having been
received by the Building Commissioner shall, prior to the issuance of a permit,
be presented to the Site Plan Review Committee, Code Enforcement Officer,
electrical inspector, plumbing inspector and Fire Chief for examination and
approval with regard to such provisions of the Village ordinances as are within
the jurisdiction of their departments. Each officer or committee shall:
   (A)   Endorse approval of the plans on the face of the plans.
   (B)   Report in writing reasons for not approving the plans with required
changes to the Building Commissioner, within three (3) business days.
   (C)   When objections have been satisfied, approve the plans as above. (Ord.
2005-24, 1-19-2006)
7-1-3: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
Applications for building permits, as provided for in section
7-1-2 of this chapter, shall be accompanied by a survey of the land upon which
the building is to be erected, and said survey shall be a land survey made by a
registered land surveyor. The survey submitted with an application must be
certified by a registered land surveyor within six (6) months of the date on
which the building permit application is submitted to the Building
Commissioner. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006)
7-1-3.1: GRADE AND WATER FLOW:
In addition to or as a part of the survey required to be furnished, a plot plan
shall be attached to such application, in the case of new buildings or
additions thereto, showing the grade of adjoining lots and structures, the
proposed grade of the new structures, as well as the calculated or proposed
flow patterns of surface and storm waters either existing or as will be
modified by the proposed construction. (Ord. 1982-1, 2-18-1982)
7-1-4: PERMITS, REVOCATION:
Any building permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
by the Building Commissioner at any time for cause. (Ord., 5-19-1955)
7-1-5: PLANS:
All such plans and drawings shall be drawn to scale of not less than one-eighth
(1/8) of an inch to the foot, on paper or cloth, in ink, or by some process
that will not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions shall be
accurately figured and drawings made explicit and complete, showing the lot
lines and the entire sewerage and drain pipes, and the location of all plumbing
fixtures within such building. Each set of plans presented shall be approved by
the Building Commissioner before a permit will be granted. (Ord. 1964-17, 7-16-
1964)
7-1-6: PLANS, ALTERATIONS, PERMISSION, EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to erase, alter or modify any lines, figures or coloring
contained upon such drawings so stamped by the Building Commissioner or filed
with the Building Commissioner for reference. If, during the progress of the
work it is desired to deviate in any manner affecting the construction or other
essentials of the building from the terms of the application or drawing, notice
of such intention to alter or deviate shall be given to the Building
Commissioner and the Building Commissioner's written assent shall first be
obtained before such alteration or deviation may be made, but alterations in
buildings which do not involve any change in their structural parts or of their
stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means of communication or ingress
or egress, or in lighting or ventilation, and that are not in violation of any
of the provisions of this Code, may be made without the permission of the
Building Commissioner. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006)
7-1-7: PERMIT FEES:
The fees to be paid for permits shall be as follows:
   (A)   For the construction, alteration or repair of a building or structure
costing, excluding plumbing and electrical work, five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or less, no fee shall be charged.
   (B)   For construction, alteration or repair of a building or structure
costing, excluding plumbing and electrical work, in excess of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and not exceeding two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), the
minimum fee shall be forty dollars ($40.00).
   (C)   An additional fee of eight dollars ($8.00) shall be charged for every
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in excess of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
   (D)   For moving over, upon or in any public highway, buildings or
structures one story or one and one-half (11/2) stories in height, a fee of one
thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00) shall be charged.
   (E)   For moving over, upon or in any public highway, buildings or
structures more than one and one-half (11/2) stories in height, a fee of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be charged.
   (F)   For moving any building or structure within the same block when same
does not pass over any public highway a fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
shall be charged. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006)
   (G)   For the wrecking or demolition of any building or structure, a fee as
indicated in section
1-27-1 of this Code shall be charged. In addition to payment of the fee charged
for such wrecking or demolition, the applicant must provide the Building
Commissioner with a wrecking and demolition permit issued by Cook County,
Illinois, before any wrecking or demolition permit may be issued. (Ord. 2006-
05, 4-20-2006; amd. Ord. 2017-18, 11-16-2017)
   (H)   For engineering review of the survey and plans required by section
7-1-3.1 of this chapter, a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be
charged. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006)
7-1-7.1: SECURITY DEPOSIT:
   (A)   In addition to all other applicable permit fees or charges or bonds
which may be required by ordinance, the applicant for a building permit for any
construction within the Village shall pay, in cash or cashier's, certified or
company check, a security deposit as indicated in section
1-27-1 of this Code and in accordance with the following:
 
For flood controls $100.00
 
(Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006; amd. Ord. 2017-18, 11-16-2017)
   (B)   The security deposit required herein is to guarantee the performance
by the permit holder of the obligation to maintain the building site and
adjacent public and private property in a clean condition both during and after
construction; the removal of dirt, debris and litter from public property; and
the restoration of public property. No interest shall be paid upon any security
deposit.
   (C)   Within a time period not to exceed three (3) days after completion of
any construction, the depositor may apply for a refund of such security
deposit. If, upon inspection and certification of compliance by the Building
Commissioner that the premises and adjoining public property is clean and the
conditions of the deposit met, the deposit shall be returned within thirty (30)
days of the date the refund application is submitted to the Building
Commissioner.
   (D)   Should it become necessary for the Village to undertake to perform any
of the obligations for which the security deposit was given, the entire amount
of the deposit shall be available and a charge shall be made against the
security deposit for costs or expenses charged by a Village contractor, or in
the event the Village performs such obligations, the charge shall be at the
normal rate paid public works employees of the Village, plus a forty three
percent (43%) overhead charge. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-19-2006)
7-1-8: ARCHITECT MUST CERTIFY PLANS:
All plans providing for expenditure of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or
more must be certified by a licensed architect. It shall be unlawful for any
architect or other person permitted under the Illinois law to make plans, to
prepare or submit to the Building Commissioner for the Building Commissioner's
approval any final plans for any building or structure which do not comply with
the structural requirements for such building or structure. (Ord. 2005-24, 1-
19-2006)
7-1-9: WATER AND STREET REGULATIONS:
Before the Clerk may issue a permit as aforesaid, he shall require evidence
from the applicant that payment has been made to the Water Department of the
Village for the water used, to be used or for a water meter for measuring all
the water to be used in the construction of such building under the regulations
of the Water Department of the Village. Such applicant shall produce evidence
that he has complied with all the requirements as to the use of the streets and
alleys of the Village by reason of any proposed obstruction or occupation
thereof in and about such building operations. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-1-10: BUILDING PERMIT, WRECKING:
Before proceeding with the wrecking or tearing down of any building or other
structure more than one story in height or of any other structure of greater
area than six hundred (600) square feet, a permit for such wrecking or tearing
down shall be first obtained by the owner or his agent from the Building
Commissioner and it shall be unlawful to proceed with the wrecking or tearing
down of any such building or structure or any structural part of such building
unless such permit shall first have been obtained. Application for such permit
shall be made by the owner or his agent to the Building Commissioner who shall
issue such permit upon such application and the payment of the fee provided
for.
All such work shall be subject to the supervision of the Building Commissioner
and to such reasonable restrictions as he may impose in regard to elements of
safety and health.
Before any permit is issued granting authority to wreck a building or structure
for which such permit is required, the person engaged in the work of wrecking
same shall file with the Clerk a bond of five hundred dollars ($500.00), with
sureties to be approved by the President and Board of Trustees, to indemnify,
keep and save harmless the Village against liability of any kind whatsoever.
Such bond in each case shall extend over the period of and cover all such
wrecking operations. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-1-11: NONRESIDENTIAL AND NONDWELLING UNIT REAL ESTATE BUILDINGS AND
STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Annual Inspection Of Nonresidential And Nondwelling Buildings And
Structures:
      1.   The Building Commissioner and his assistants shall make an annual
inspection of all theaters and places of amusement, worship, instruction,
entertainment, and all other buildings and structures, except dwellings and
residences, and also an annual inspection of all stairways, means of egress and
all such other inspections of all stairways. It shall be the duty of every
owner, agent, lessee, or occupant of any such building or structure in charge
or control of the same to permit the making of such inspection by the Building
Commissioner or by a duly authorized assistant at any time upon demand being
duly made.
      2.   Where the result of such inspection shall show that such building or
structure fails in any respect to comply with the provisions of the building
regulations of the Village, it shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner
to notify the owner, agent, lessee or occupant of such building or structure of
the deficiency or deficiencies and to specify wherein such building or
structure fails to comply with the building regulations; and it shall thereupon
become the joint and several duty of such owner, agent, lessee, and occupant to
proceed forthwith to make whatever changes, alterations, or repairs may be
necessary to make such building or structure comply in all respects with the
building regulations of the Village, and to complete such changes, alterations,
and repairs within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice.
      3.   Upon making such annual inspection, it shall be the duty of the
owner, agent, lessee, or occupant to pay to the Village a reinspection fee for
same if more than one reinspection is required as a result of the owner's,
agent's, lessee's, or occupant's failure to make timely changes, alterations,
or repairs in response to the notice of the initial inspection. The
reinspection fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00); provided, however,
that no charge for such reinspection shall be made against religious,
charitable or educational institutions.
   (B)   Inspection Stamp Requirement Upon Transfer Of Nonresidential And
Nondwelling Buildings And Structures:
      1.   Inspection Required: No owner, agent, or person in charge of any
building or structure, except residential and dwelling units, shall sell,
convey, quit claim, trade, or otherwise transfer same unless said building or
structure shall have been inspected and determined to be in compliance with all
of the provisions of the building regulations of the Village, as evidenced by
an inspection stamp issued by the Building Commissioner.
      2.   Transfers Of Ownership: The requirement of inspection, obtaining the
inspection stamp, and payment of inspection fees shall be mandatory on all
transfers of ownership of or beneficial interest in all buildings and
structures within the Village. This requirement shall further be reflected on
all real estate title insurance reports conducted precedent to the transfer of
ownership to give public notice of the mandatory inspection and issuance of the
inspection stamp. Copies of this Section shall be sent to all title insurance
companies with notice that the mandatory inspection and inspection stamp is
required on any transfer of ownership of real estate in the Village.
      3.   Application For Inspection Stamp: Any person owning real estate
located within the Village shall, at the time of offering the real estate for
sale or transfer, but not less than twenty one (21) days prior to any proposed
sale, assignment or other transfer of any legal or beneficial interest of said
real estate, file an application for an inspection stamp with the Building
Department. In addition to the completed transfer stamp application, the
following items shall be submitted with the application or delivered prior to
the issuance of the applied for transfer stamp:
         (a)   A completed and signed New Property Owner Form of the grantee;
and
         (b)   A copy of the deed, assignment, or other instrument of
conveyance or transfer involved in the subject transaction, the names of the
grantor and grantee, and a legal description, permanent index number(s), and
common address of the property to which it relates; and
         (c)   A signed copy of the real estate transfer declaration filed
pursuant to Section 31-25 of the Real Estate Transfer Tax Law, 35 ILCS 200/31-
25; and
         (d)   A Plat of Survey, except where the real estate is a condominium,
shall be provided by the applicant to the village that conforms to the current
Minimum Standard of Practice for boundary surveys, is dated not more than six
(6) months prior to the date of Closing, and is prepared by a professional land
surveyor licensed to practice land surveying under the laws of the State of
Illinois. The Plat of Survey shall show visible evidence of improvements,
rights of way, easements, use and measurements of all parcel lines. The Plat of
Survey shall include the following statement placed near the professional land
surveyor's seal and signature: "This professional service conforms to the
current Illinois Minimum Standards for a boundary survey.
         (e)   All outstanding fees or fines due the Village of River Grove at
the time of sale shall be paid including without limitation property
maintenance fees, adjudicated violations and fines levied."
         (f)   On the day of or the day before the scheduled closing the
applicant shall request a final water reading and invoice therefor, and the
invoice shall be paid before the issuance of the transfer stamp.
      4.   Inspection: Upon request of the owner, agent or other persons
authorized to sell a building or a structure (hereinafter referred to as
"applicant"), the Building Commissioner or his designee will be available at an
appointed time within ten (10) working days agreed upon by himself and the
applicant, or later if applicant requests, to inspect such building or
structure. The term “ten (10) working days” in this instance shall mean any ten
(10) business days from the date the applicant delivers the application to the
Village, during regular business hours.
      5.   Issuance: If such inspection establishes that the building or the
structure complies with the provisions of the building regulations of the
Village, then the Building Commissioner shall issue an transfer inspection
stamp for said building or structure which shall be affixed upon the original
deed or document of transfer before recording. The transfer inspection stamp
shall be provided to the applicant and attached to a copy of the inspection
report for the property. The inspection stamp shall indicate the date of
inspection; and that such building or structure complies with the requirements
of the Village's Real Estate Transfer Ordinance. A record of all inspection
stamps shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Department and
copies shall be furnished, upon request, to any person having an interest or
tenancy interest in the building or structure affected.
      6.   Inspection Report: Said inspection shall be governed by the then
current inspection report prepared and posted by the Building Department of the
Village.
   (C)   Fees: All inspection and re-inspection fees shall be in accordance
with the current fee schedule of the Village, and all re-inspection fees shall
be payable prior to any reinspection. No inspection stamp shall be issued
without payment first of all inspection and re-inspection fees being paid to
the Village.
(Ord. 2001-09, 11-15-2001; amd. Ord. 2024-16, 6-17-2024)
7-1-12: BUILDING MOVED MUST COMPLY:
Buildings or structures to be moved from one block to another, or upon, along
or across any street or alley used by and for the public, that are worth more
than one-third (1/3), but less than three-fourths (3/4) of the cost of
duplicating such buildings or structures in the proposed new location with new
construction and materials, shall be made to comply throughout with the
building code, both as to construction and use in the new location; and the
acceptance of a permit for moving such building or structures shall impose the
obligation to cause same to be made to comply with the building code. (Rev.
Ord. 1939)
7-1-13: INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
The building commissioner shall cause to be inspected all buildings and
structures and portions thereof which are in course of being constructed,
erected, enlarged, remodeled, altered, repaired, raised, lowered, underpinned,
moved or wrecked under a permit issued by the village for the work.
The purpose of inspection shall be to ascertain and record whether the work is
being undertaken and performed in a safe manner, and complies with the
requirements of the building code. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-1-14: INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS BEFORE MOVING:
The Building Commissioner shall inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings
or structures for which application shall be made for the purpose of
ascertaining and recording information as to the risks incurred, the strength,
size, value and general sanitary and structural features of the building or
structure proposed to be moved. These reports shall be placed on file in the
Department of Buildings before the permit sought shall be approved for the
issuance by the Building Commissioner. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-1-15: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
No applicant shall be entitled to receive nor shall the Building Commissioner
issue thereto a permit to erect, move, adapt or use any building or structure
in the Village for which frontage consents are required until the applicant
shall have first filed the prescribed consents, nor until such consents are
verified and notice of the application has been given in the manner required by
the laws of the Village. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-1-16: AVAILABILITY OF MATERIALS:
No building permits shall be issued until satisfactory evidence has been given
to the Building Commissioner that all materials are available for the
completion of the new structure or improvements contemplated and for which the
permit is sought to be issued. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-1-17: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
   (A)   The regulations and standards governing the design, construction,
alteration, removal, demolition, maintenance and use of all buildings and
structures; providing for the issuance of permits, collection of fees and
making of inspections, contained in the 2015 International Building Code as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., in book form, are hereby
adopted as the Building Code of the Village of River Grove by reference thereto
and the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms thereof and therein
contained are made a part of this Code as though fully set forth and written
herein, except as herein excepted and modified.
   (B)   At least three (3) copies of said regulations, in book form, have been
on file in the Office of the Village Clerk, for use and examination by the
public, in excess of thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this section.
   (C)   It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with those regulations.
   (D)   The following articles, sections or words are revised or deleted:
      1.   All applications for permits shall be filed with the Building
Commissioner who shall be responsible for the issuance thereof.
      2.   The term "Municipality or jurisdiction" shall mean the Village of
River Grove; and the term "building official" shall mean the Building
Commissioner.
      3.   The term "chief appointing authority" shall mean the President and
Board of Trustees.
      4.   Any reference to the height of a structure or area shall be subject
to the zoning ordinance.
      5.   All members of the Appeal Board provided for therein shall be
residents and electors of the Village for not less than one year preceding
their appointment and during their term of service.
      6.   Should any of the regulations hereby adopted conflict with any of
the regulations now contained in this Code, that regulation which is more
restrictive shall control.
   (E)   The code adopted in subsection (A) of this section is hereby amended
by substituting the following sections or subsections for and in lieu of those
sections or subsections with corresponding numbers in such code, or, where
there is no corresponding section in such code, the following sections or
subsections shall be enacted as additions to such code:
Subsection 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the building code
of the Village of River Grove, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
Subsection 101.2.1 Appendices. All appendices are hereby adopted and made a
part of this code with the exceptions of Appendices A, C and D.
Subsection 101.4 Referenced codes. The other codes listed in Sections 101.4.1
through 101.4.7 and referenced elsewhere in this code shall be considered part
of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference, except that, where an NFPA standard is referenced, said standard
shall be considered part of the requirements of this code in its entirety.
Subsection 101.4.3 Plumbing. The provisions of the current Illinois Plumbing
Code shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of
plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and
appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage system and all aspects
of a medical gas system where not covered by NFPA 99. The provisions of the
International Plumbing Code shall be used for the sizing of toilet rooms and
bathrooms and for all requirements for roof drainage. The provisions of the
International Private Sewage Disposal Code shall apply to private sewage
disposal systems.
Subsection 101.4.5 Fire prevention. The provisions of the International Fire
Code as well as the most current edition of NFPA 101, the Life Safety Code,
shall apply to matters affecting or relating to structures, processes and
premises from the hazard of fire and explosion arising from the storage,
handling or use of structures, materials or devices; from conditions hazardous
to life, property or public welfare in the occupancy of structures or premises;
and from the construction, extension, repair, alteration or removal of fire
suppression, automatic fire sprinkler systems and alarm systems or fire hazards
in the structure or on the premises from occupancy or operation.
Subsection 101.4.6 Energy. The provisions of the International Energy
Conservation Code, as adopted and amended by the State of Illinois, shall apply
to all matters governing the design and construction of buildings for energy
efficiency.
Subsection 105.2 Work exempt from permit. Work exempt from permit shall be as
determined by the building official.
Subsection 114.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision
of this Code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not to exceed
$750.00 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed six months or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
Subsection 306.3 Low-hazard factory industrial, Group F-2 is hereby deleted and
replaced with the following:
Subsection 306.3 Low-hazard factory industrial, Group F-1. All low-hazard
factory industrial uses and occupancies shall be classified as Group F-1. The
requirements of this Code for Group F-1 shall apply to all factory industrial
uses and occupancies.
Subsection 311.3 Low-hazard storage, Group S-2 is hereby deleted and replaced
with the following:
Subsection 311.3 Low-hazard storage, Group S-1. AH low- hazard storage uses and
occupancies shall be classified as Group S-1. The requirements of this Code for
Group S-1 shall apply to all storage uses and occupancies.
Table 508.4 Required Separation of Occupancies (Hours) is amended as follows:
1.Delete the letter "N" where Columns 11 and 12 intersect Row 6 (Use Groups B,
F-1, M, S-1) and insert in its place the number "1."
2.Exception: Where Table 508.4 requires a 1-hour separation between Use Groups
B, F-1, M and S-1, the 1-hour rating shall not be required to separate rooms or
areas of the same use group unless a fire separation is required elsewhere in
this code.
Subsection 708.3 Fire-resistance rating. Delete the Exceptions.
Subsection 711.2.4.3 Dwelling units and sleeping units. Delete the Exception.
Subsection 907.6.6 Monitoring. Fire alarm systems required by this chapter or
by the International Fire Code shall be monitored by any licensed, UL approved
central supervising station.
Exception: Monitoring by a supervising station is not required for:
1.Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms required by Section 907.2.11.
2.Smoke detectors in Group I-3 occupancies.
3.Automatic sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings.
Subsection 1807.1.3 Rubble stone foundation walls. Delete subsection in its
entirety.
Subsection 1807.1.4 Permanent wood foundation systems. Delete subsection in its
entirety.
Chapter 27, Electrical and Chapter 29, Plumbing Systems are hereby deleted in
their entirety.
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-1-18: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
   (A)   The regulations and standards governing the conditions and maintenance
of all property, buildings and structures; providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation and demolition of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy; as contained in the 2015 International Property Maintenance Code as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., in book form, are hereby
adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the Village of River Grove by
reference thereto and the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms thereof
and therein contained are made a part of this Code as though fully set forth
and written herein, except as herein excepted and modified.
   (B)   At least three (3) copies of said regulations, in book form, have been
on file in the Office of the Village Clerk, for use and examination by the
public, in excess of thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this section.
   (C)   It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with those regulations.
   (D)   The following articles, sections or words are revised or deleted:
      1.   The term "code official" shall mean Building Commissioner.
      2.   All members of the Appeal Board provided for therein shall be
residents and electors of the Village for not less than one year preceding
their appointment and during their term of service.
      3.   Should any of the regulations hereby adopted conflict with any of
the regulations now contained in this Code, that regulation which is more
restrictive shall control.
   (E)   The code adopted in subsection (A) of this section is hereby further
amended by substituting the following sections or subsections for and in lieu
of those sections or subsections with corresponding numbers in such code, or,
where there is no corresponding section in such code, the following sections or
subsections shall be enacted as additions to such code:
Subsection 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property
Maintenance Code of the Village of River Grove, hereinafter referred to as
"this code."
Subsection 101.5 Appendices. Appendix A is hereby adopted and made a part of
this code.
Subsection 102.3 Adoption of other codes. Delete references in this subsection
to the International Plumbing Code, the International Electrical Code and the
International Zoning Code.
Subsection 103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as
determined by the Village.
Subsection 106.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision
of this Code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not to exceed
$750.00. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation
occurs or continues.
Subsection 110.2 Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with
Division 31 of Chapter 65 of ILCS.
Section 110.3 Failure to comply. Upon failure of the owner to comply with the
notices herein provided for, the building commissioner shall proceed pursuant
to Division 31 of Chapter 65 of ILCS to have the structure demolished.
Subsection 112.4 Failure to comply. Delete the bracketed words AMOUNT in the
second to last line, and insert "two hundred dollars ($200)" in place of the
first bracketed word and "five hundred dollars ($500.00)" in the second.
Subsection 304.14 Insect screens. Delete the bracketed words DATE in the first
and second lines and insert, "March 1" in place of the first bracketed word
and, "October 30" in the second.
Subsection 602.2 Residential occupancies. Delete the words "indicated in
Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code" in lines 5 and 6.
Subsection 602.3 Heat supply. Delete the bracketed words DATE in the fifth line
and insert, "September 15" in place of the first bracketed word; and "April 15"
in the second.
Subsection 602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Delete the bracketed words DATE in the
third line and insert, "September 15" in place of the first bracketed word and,
"April 15" in the second.
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-1-19: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose: This section is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted
to the Village by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2,
5/11-30-8, and 5/11-31-2 (1994). The purpose of this section is to maintain the
Village's eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize
potential losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of
surface waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources. This section is adopted in
order to accomplish the following specific purposes:
      1.   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18
Rivers, Lakes and Streams Act;
      2.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or
drainage hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion;
      3.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      4.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      5.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      6.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property
in the village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program; (Ord. 2005-05, 5-5-2005)
      7.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended; (Ord. 2008-15, 6-19-
2008)
      8.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources; and
      9.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water
impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and
riparian habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits and enhance community and economic development.
   (B)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions are adopted:
    ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.
   ACT: An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams
of the state of Illinois, 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
   APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
   APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible
and will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed
are as specified in subsection (G)2 of this section.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in subsection (E) of this section.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site
for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, unless fully licensed and ready
for highway use.
   CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris, or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form
of channel modification involving a significant change in the channel cross
section and typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this section, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as built plans.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that
FEMA will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood
boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map, once the as built plans are submitted and approved.
   CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that
passes through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water
surface elevation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY: Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers, etc.
   DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that
portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by
IDNR/OWR, which is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year frequency
flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to the loss
of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase
in velocities.
      1.   The floodways are designated for Des Plaines River on the flood
insurance rate map prepared by FEMA on map number 17031C dated August 19, 2008.
When two (2) floodway maps exist for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway
limit shall prevail.
      2.   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village that may be annexed
into the village are designated on the flood insurance rate map prepared by
FEMA on map number 17031C dated August 19, 2008.
      3.   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the
designated floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map
and located on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where
interpretation is needed to determine the exact location of the designated
floodway boundary, IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
      1.   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building.
      2.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or
recreational vehicle is on site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, it
must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      3.   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads,
bridges, or similar projects.
      4.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
      5.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
      6.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or
culverts; channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving,
or other nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of
materials; deposit of solid or liquid waste.
      7.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height,
or velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal.
Development does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase
in elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
   EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or
wave action.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this section per
Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) including state, federal or local units of
government.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-
79 revised as of October 21, 2002. This incorporation does not include any
later editions or amendments.
   FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP: An official map of a community where the
boundaries of the flood having special hazard areas have been designated as
zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in
the SFHA.
   FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
      1.   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the
village that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood. The SFHAs of the village for Des Plaines River are generally identified
as such on the flood insurance rate map of Cook County prepared by the federal
emergency management agency on map number 17031C, dated August 19, 2008.
      2.   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed
into the village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate
map prepared for Cook County by the federal emergency management agency and
dated August 19, 2008.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the
interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      3.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency;
      4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analysis which determines
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
   IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources, office of water
resources.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective flood
hazard boundary map (FHBM) or FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
manufactured homes also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational
vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative
effects which floodplain development activities might have on the public
health, safety and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory
storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
Mitigation may also include those activities taken to reduce a structure's
susceptibility to flooding.
   NATURAL: When used in reference to channels means those channels formed by
the existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is
reestablished. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
   NGVD: National geodetic vertical datum of 1929. Reference surface set by the
national geodetic survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which
the presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
   PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the state of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
   PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
      1.   Built on a single chassis;
      2.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of
Illinois, under the Illinois land surveyors act 1 .
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the state of
Illinois, under the Illinois professional engineering practice act 2 .
   REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not
result in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes
to the dimensions of a structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damages
occurred.
   RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores storm water runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of storm
water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood or
storm.
   RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified
channel. This term does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes,
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding
from a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified
channel or ponding and shown on a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance
rate map as zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M, E, or D.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
   STRUCTURE: The results of a manmade change to the land constructed on or
below the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days unless they are fully
licensed and ready for highway use.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred, regardless of the actual repair work performed. Volunteer
labor and materials must be included in this determination. Damage of less than
fifty percent (50%) of the fair market value will be applied to the repetitive
loss calculations.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: 1. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement.
      2.   For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.
      3.   The term does not, however, include either: a) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions or b) any alteration of a "historic structure" listed on
the national register of historic places or the Illinois register of historic
places, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure.
   TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from
a narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided. (Ord. 2005-05, 5-5-2005; amd. Ord. 2008-15,
6-19-2008)
   (C)   How To Use This Section:
      1.   The building commissioner shall be responsible for fulfilling all of
the duties listed in subsection (D) of this section.
      2.   To fulfill those duties, the building commissioner first should use
the criteria listed in subsection (E), "Base Flood Elevation", of this section
to determine whether the development site is located within a floodplain.
      3.   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a
floodplain, the building commissioner must determine whether the development
site is within a flood fringe, a designated floodway, or within an SFHA or
floodplain for which no floodway has been identified.
(a) If the site is within a flood fringe, the building commissioner shall
require that the minimum requirements of subsection (F) of this section be met.
(b) If the site is within a floodway, the building commissioner shall require
that the minimum requirements of subsection (G) of this section be met.
(c) If the site is located within an SFHA or floodplain for which no detailed
study has been completed and approved, the building commissioner shall require
that the minimum requirements of subsection (H) of this section be met.
      4.   In addition, the general requirements of subsection (I) of this
section shall be met for all developments meeting the requirements of
subsection (F), (G), or (H) of this section.
      5.   The building commissioner shall assure that all subdivision
proposals shall meet the requirements of subsection (J) of this section.
      6.   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the building
commissioner shall review the requirements of subsection (K) of this section to
make sure they are met. In addition, the building commissioner shall complete
all notification requirements.
      7.   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required
in this section, the building commissioner may take any and all actions as
outlined in subsection (M) of this section.
   (D)   Duties Of The Enforcement Official(s): The building commissioner shall
be responsible for the general administration and enforcement of this section
which shall include the following:
      1.   Determining The Floodplain Designation:
         (a) Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
         (b) If they are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway,
flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been
conducted and which drains more than one square mile.
         (c) Check whether the development is potentially within an extended
SFHA (with a drainage area less than 1 square mile), indicating that the
development would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance, or
inundation which would be the basis for the applicant being required to
delineate the floodplain and floodway and be subject to this section.
      2.   Professional Engineer Review:
         (a) If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain
for which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than
one square mile, the permit shall be referred to a registered professional
engineer under the employ or contract of the village for review to ensure that
the development meets the requirements of subsection (G) or (H) of this
section.
         (b) In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of subsection (G) of this section.
      3.   Dam Safety Requirements:
         (a) Ensure that an IDNR/OWR permit has been issued or a letter
indicating no permit is required, if the proposed development activity includes
construction of a "dam" as defined in subsection (B) of this section.
         (b) Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or
impoundment structures.
      4.   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure that any and all required federal,
state and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
      5.   Plan Review And Permit Issuance:
         (a) Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this section, and
         (b) Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this section and other regulations of the community when the
development meets the conditions of this section.
      6.   Inspection Review: Inspect all development projects before, during
and after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this section.
      7.   Damage Determinations: Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after a flood to determine substantially damaged
structures which must comply with subsection (I)3(a)(3) of this section.
      8.   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain permit files
including:
         (a) An elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building subject
to subsection (I) of this section, and/or
         (b) The elevation to which a nonresidential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to
subsection (I) of this section.
      9.   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and "as
built" elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this section.
      10.   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been
granted by IDNR/OWR, for all development projects subject to subsections (G)
and (H) of this section, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated
to the village. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to
the village and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
         (a) Organizations which are exempt from this section, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
         (b) IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in
subsection (B) of this section and all other state, federal or local unit of
government projects, including projects of the village and county, except for
those projects meeting the requirements of subsection (G)2(g) of this section;
         (c) An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection (G)2(c)(5) of this section;
         (d) An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection (G)2
(c)(4) of this section;
         (e) Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsection (G)2(c)(1), (G)2(c)(2), (G)2(c)
(8) of this section;
         (f) Permit issuance of structures within, under, or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
         (g) Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
         (h) Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
      11.   Cooperation With Other Agencies:
         (a) Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve
the administration of this section;
         (b) Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map within six (6) months whenever a modification of the floodplain
may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to the floodplain
map;
         (c) Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance
program; and
         (d) Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this section.
      12.   Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as
necessary to administer and enforce the provisions of this section, subject
however to the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any ordinance
changes.
   (E)   Base Flood Elevation: This section's protection standard is based on
the flood insurance study for the village.
      1.   Basis For Protection Standard:
         (a) If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available in the Illinois state water
survey's floodplain information repository that has been approved by IDNR/OWR
and FEMA.
         (b) When a party disagrees with the best available data, he/she shall
finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for approval prior to any
development of the site. (Ord. 2005-05, 5-5-2005)
      2.   Des Plaines River: The base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation for the SFHAs of Des Plaines River shall be as delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the village prepared by
FEMA and dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments to such study and maps as
may be prepared from time to time.
      3.   Unincorporated Areas: The base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation for the SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed
into the village shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
flood insurance study of Cook County prepared by FEMA and dated August 19,
2008, and such amendments or revisions to such study and maps as may be
prepared from time to time. (Ord. 2008-15, 6-19-2008)
      4.   AH Or AO Zones: The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation
for each SFHA delineated as an "AH zone" or "AO zone" shall be that elevation
(or depth) delineated on the flood insurance rate map of the village.
      5.   Remaining A Zones: The base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation for each of the remaining SFHAs delineated as an "A zone" on the
flood insurance rate map of the village shall be according to the best existing
data available in the Illinois state water survey floodplain information
repository.
         (a) When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists,
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall
be determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, WSP-2, or a dynamic model
such as HIP.
         (b) The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained
from a hydrologic model, such as HEC-I, TR-20, or HIP, or by techniques
presented in various publications prepared by the United States geological
survey for estimating peak flood discharges.
         (c) Along any watercourses draining more than one square mile, the
above analyses shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for approval. Once approved it
must be submitted to the Illinois state water survey floodplain information
repository for filing.
         (d) For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study and approved by IDNR/OWR for drainage areas greater than one
square mile.
For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than 1 square mile)
which has been identified by the building commissioner pursuant to subsection
(D)1(c) of this section, the base flood elevation shall be determined by the
applicant utilizing a method as approved in this subsection (E)5, with
concurrence of the building commissioner.
   (F)   Occupation And Use Of Flood Fringe Areas: Development in and/or
filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if protection is provided against
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by proper elevation, and
compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of this section. No use
will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of drainage facilities
or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe shall meet the
requirements of this section, along with the requirements of subsection (I) of
this section.
      1.   Development Permit:
         (a) No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by
law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the building commissioner.
         (b) Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the building commissioner.
            (1) The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations in MSL, 1929 adjustment datum or NGVD and all changes
in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and dimensions of
all buildings and additions to buildings.
            (2) For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of subsection (I)
of this section.
         (c) Upon receipt of a development permit application, the building
commissioner shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-
year frequency flood elevation.
            (1) Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher
than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map and which
has not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
without a permit as required by this section is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this section. Conversely, any development
located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically
connected, but shown on the current flood insurance rate map is subject to the
provisions of this section.
            (2) The building commissioner shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
         (d) A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas shall
be submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
         (e) The building commissioner shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals
or permit not required letters that may be required for this type of activity.
The building commissioner shall not issue a permit unless all other federal,
state, and local permits have been obtained.
      2.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the flood fringe
shall create a threat to public health and safety.
         (a) Elevating Site: If fill is being used to elevate the site above
the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall
submit sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for
the purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
         (b) Compensatory Storage:
            (1) Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
            (2) The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.5 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
            (3) In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall
be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
            (4) All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
            (5) All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
      3.   Construction Of The Lowest Floor Below The Base Flood Elevation
(BFE): A person who has obtained a letter of map revision based on fill that
removes a site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use of fill
to elevate the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the village to
construct the lowest floor of a residential building below the BFE in the flood
fringe. The building commissioner shall not issue such a permit unless the
applicant has complied with all the criteria set forth in the following
subsection:
         (a) Compensatory storage shall be provided per subsection (F)2(b) of
this section.
            (1) The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e.,
window wells, accessways) shall be at or above the flood protection elevation
(FPE).
            (2) The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or
above the FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet (10') beyond the outside face
of the structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement
cannot be met, the building commissioner may waive the ten foot (10') minimum
setback if an Illinois registered professional engineer certifies that an
alternative method to protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic
pressures has been met. The certifications shall be in the form of a detailed
soils and structural design analysis, which shall be submitted to the building
commissioner for review. The building commissioner may require such additional
documentation as necessary to prove that the proposed shorter setback distance
will keep the structure reasonably safe. In no case shall the setback distance
be less than four feet (4').
            (3) The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a
distance of twenty feet (20') from the structure, shall be above the BFE.
However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained,
the building commissioner may waive the twenty foot (20') minimum setback
distance if an Illinois registered professional engineer certifies that an
alternative method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic
pressures has been met. A detailed soils analysis and structural design proving
that a shorter setback distance will keep the structure reasonably safe from
flooding, shall be submitted to the village for review. In no case shall the
setback distance be less than four feet (4').
            (4) The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that
meets all requirements of this subsection and is at least five feet (5') thick
under the basement floor slab. Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted
to require the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of a
LOMR-F, if such fill consists of material, including soils of similar
classification and degree permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC
or ML according to ASTM standard D-2487, classification of soils for
engineering purposes.
            (5) The fill material must be homogeneous (i.e., all of one
material) and isotropic (i.e., having the same engineering properties) and in
the same direction.
            (6) All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified
and inspected by an Illinois registered professional engineer, as warranted by
the site conditions.
            (7) The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more
than five (5) below the BFE.
            (8) There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor
slab, and minimum of one-fourth (1/4) horsepower sump pump with a backup power
supply shall be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at
four (4) times the estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and
away from the building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift
of the floor under the effect of the seepage pressure.
            (9) The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
            (10) All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand
hydrostatic pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
            (11) If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set
forth in the preceding paragraphs of this subsection, the building commissioner
may allow the construction of a basement below the BFE only if the applicant
demonstrates that the proposed fill and structure meet the guidelines and
requirements set forth in FEMA technical bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably safe
from flooding. In order to demonstrate that the proposed structure is
reasonably safe from flooding, the applicant shall submit a detailed
engineering analysis of the proposed fill and foundation wall. The engineered
basement study shall be completed in accordance with the latest edition of FEMA
technical bulletin 10-01, with the analysis of the fill being prepared by an
Illinois registered professional engineer.
            (12) In order to provide the required compensatory storage on site,
in no case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed eighteen inches (18"), as measured from the previously existing natural
grade. The rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation,
if necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to
drain the compensatory storage area will not be permitted. (Ord. 2005-05, 5-5-
2005)
   (G)   Occupation And Use Of Designated Floodways: This subsection applies to
proposed development, redevelopment, site modification or building modification
within a designated floodway. The designated floodway for the Des Plaines River
shall be as delineated on the designated floodway maps designated by IDNR/OWR
according to and referenced in subsection (B) of this section. Only those uses
and structures will be permitted which meet the criteria in this section. All
floodway modifications shall be the minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose
of the project. The development shall also meet the requirements of subsection
(I) of this section. (Ord. 2008-15, 6-19-2008)
      1.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental
body not exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway
without first obtaining a development permit from the building commissioner and
IDNR/OWR.
         (a) Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the building commissioner. The application shall include the
following information:
            (1) Name and address of applicant;
            (2) Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
            (3) Name of stream or body of water affected;
            (4) Description of proposed activity;
            (5) Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
            (6) Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
            (7) Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property
if different from the applicant;
            (8) Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
            (9) If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
            (10) If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
            (11) If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
            (12) Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include
as a minimum:
   A. A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the waterway,
boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic or
numerical scale, and north arrow;
   B. A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing existing
and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the structure or
work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or NGVD or North
American vertical datum, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and
flood control easements, location of any channels and any existing or future
access roads, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when
the proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body of water),
designated floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and dimensions of
any proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of cross sections,
north arrow, and a graphic or numerical scale;
   C. Cross section views of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the work as
shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water elevation,
10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood elevation, and
graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
   D. A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas. This plan
shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and the
temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate
their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance;
   E. A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any proposed
change in the designated floodway location.
      (13) Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
      (14) Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of subsection (G)2
of this section.
      (15) If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
      (16) The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings of
the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing ground
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed excavation or
filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a registered
professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land surveyor; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings
subject to the requirements of subsection (I) of this section.
      (17) If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
   A. A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
   B. A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations or methods
(see subsection (G)2(c)(9)A of this section) to accomplish the purpose of the
proposed work;
   C. An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each feasible
alternative identified in subsection (G)2(c)(9)A of this section would have on
the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected; and
   D. An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
(b) The building commissioner shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits and approvals
that may be required for this type of activity.
(1) The building commissioner shall not issue the development permit unless all
required federal and state permits have been obtained.
(2) A registered professional engineer, under the employ or contract of the
village shall review and approve applications reviewed under this section.
      2.   Preventing Increased Damages And A List Of Appropriate Uses:
(a) Development Allowed: The only development in a floodway which will be
allowed are appropriate uses, which will not cause a rise in the base flood
elevation, and which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging
increase in flood heights or velocity or be a threat to public health and
safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
the floodway or channel, or permanently impair existing water quality or
aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate
mitigation methods as called for in this section. Only those appropriate uses
listed in 17 Illinois administrative code part 3708 will be allowed. The
approved appropriate uses are as follows:
(1) Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or private
improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or water
quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
(2) Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring access to,
the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities, and
facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
(3) Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
(4) Underground and overhead utilities;
(5) Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems, including
any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed from any one
direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including open
air pavilions and toilet facilities (4 stall maximum) that will not block flood
flows nor reduce floodway storage;
(6) Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory structures
that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
(7) Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and taxiways and
any modification thereto;
(8) Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
   A. The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event will not
exceed 1.0 foot; or
   B. The applicant of a short term recreational use facility parking lot,
formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events and accepts
liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all overbank
flooding events;
(9) Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
nonerosive slope toward a watercourse;
(10) Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful structures
including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating structures, or
construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or industrial
principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be no more
than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing structure, and
which are not considered substantial improvements to the structure;
(11) The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged building, provided
that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the building was damaged
to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before the damage occurred,
the building will be protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation;
(12) Modifications to an existing building that would not increase the enclosed
floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood elevation, and
which will not block flood flows including, but not limited to, fireplaces, bay
windows, decks, patios, and second story additions. If the building is improved
to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before the modification
occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will be protected from
flooding to the flood protection elevation.
(b) Uses Not Included: Appropriate uses do not include the construction or
placement of any new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts,
excavation or channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise
nonappropriate uses in the floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting
designed to act as a fence) and storage of materials except as specifically
defined above as an appropriate use.
(c) Construction Of Appropriate Use: Within the designated floodway as
identified on the floodway maps designated by IDNR/OWR, the construction of an
appropriate use will be considered permissible provided that the proposed
project meets the following engineering and mitigation criteria and is so
stated in writing with supporting plans, calculations and data by a registered
professional engineer and provided that any structure meets the protection
requirements of subsection (I) of this section:
(1) Preservation Of Flood Conveyance, So As Not To Increase Flood Stages
Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings, on
stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
   A. Designated floodway conveyance, "K" = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where "n" is
Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective flow area of the cross
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See "Open
Channel Hydraulics", Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.)
   B. The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and proposed
conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal, state, or
local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be maintained
or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative land cover.
   C. Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations of
effective designated floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
         i.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section,
the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
         ii.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
(1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length.
         iii.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream
length shall be used.
         iv.   Transition sections shall be provided between cross sections
with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
         v.   All cross sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
            (2)   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase
Downstream Flooding:
   A. Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated floodway
storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or structures
placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
   B. Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at least
1.5 times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
   C. Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head loss behind
a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
   D. The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed between the
proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood elevation. All
designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All designated
floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
   E. If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location of the
proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall demonstrate to IDNR/OWR
through a determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations that
the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
   F. There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a result of a
floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to reduce flooding
at existing structure.
            (3)   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase
Stream Erosion Or Flood Heights:
   A. For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on stream
structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the average
channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events up to
and including the 100-year frequency event.
   B. In the case of bridges or culverts or on stream structures built for the
purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood flows,
velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of riprap or other design measures.
            (4)   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches:
   A. The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of upstream flood
stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing conditions for all
flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event; or the upstream
flood stage increases will be contained within the channel banks (or within
existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the design
protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded flood
easements.
   B. If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood stages greater
than 0.1 foot, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a permit for a dam
or waiver.
         i.   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in subsection (E) of this
section. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT, FHWA hydraulic chart for
the selection of highway culverts. Bridges must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT/
federal highway administration hydraulics of bridge waterways calculation
procedures.
         ii.   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection
(G)2(c)(2) of this section.
         iii.   Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection (G)2(c)(3)
of this section.
         iv.   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used for
recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be received.
         v.   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this
subsection (G)2.
         vi.   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per subsection (G)2(c)(8) of this section.
            (5)   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts,
And Approach Roads:
   A. The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or modification
shall be constructed with no more than 0.1 foot increase in backwater over the
existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and including the 100-
year event, if the existing structure is not a source of flood damage.
   B. If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a source of
flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain, the
applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
   C. The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is a source
of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in accordance with 17
Illinois administrative code part 3708 (floodway construction in northeastern
Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence before a permit
is issued.
            (6)   On Stream Structures Built For The Purpose Of Backing Up
Water:
   A. Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot when compared
to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including the 100-
year frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or within
existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the design
protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded flood
easements.
   B. A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be obtained
from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up water in
the stream during normal or flood flow.
   C. All dams and impoundment structures as defined in subsection (B) of this
section shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Illinois administrative
code part 3702 (construction and maintenance of dams). If the proposed activity
involves a modification of the channel or floodway to accommodate an
impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
         i.   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation, or regional storm water detention;
         ii.   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous
fish species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life
cycle, such as for spawning;
         iii.   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin;
         iv.   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
         v.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
subsection (G).
            (7)   Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And
Commercial Structures:
   A. If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the existing
building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction shall be
placed no farther than ten feet (10') from the outside of the building.
   B. Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required for
floodproofing activities.
            (8)   Excavation In The Floodway:
   A. When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and culvert
openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing bridge and
culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other appropriate
uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
   B. The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless an
applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or
model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
         i.   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section,
the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
         ii.   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
(1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length; and
         iii.   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream
length shall be used.
         iv.   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
            (9)   Channel Modification: If the proposed activity involves a
channel modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
   A. There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which would
accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the body
of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank stabilization,
floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from the
floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel, or the establishment of a
streamside buffer strip or greenbelt. Channel modification is acceptable if the
purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish and
wildlife habitat;
   B. Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
   C. The activity has been planned and designed and will be constructed in a
way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural conditions of the
body of water affected, consistent with the following criteria:
         i.   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall match
as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross section,
slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously modified,
restoration of more natural physical conditions should be incorporated into
channel modification design, where practical.
         ii.   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both
the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion.
         iii.   One sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation.
         iv.   Clearing of stabilizing vegetation shall be limited to that
which is essential for construction of the channel.
         v.   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no steeper
than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable. Native
vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or riprap are preferred approaches. Artificial materials such as concrete,
gabions, or construction rubble should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
         vi.   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
         vii.   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom diversity
such as deep pools, riffles, and other similar features, such features shall be
provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate.
         viii.   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end of
the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
         ix.   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and all
items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
         x.   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the channel
enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless necessitated
by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is justified as
part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
         xi.   Unless the modification is for a public flood control project,
there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage outside the
floodway as a result of the modification; and
   D. The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this subsection
(G).
            (10)   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located
in a floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the
applicant.
            (11)   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities
in the floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
   A. The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the maximum
vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the time soil
is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to the
initiation of improvements.
   B. Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be applied to denuded
areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be provided
within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any portion of the
site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may not be at final
grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60) days.
   C. Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any significant
grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement of eroded
sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control devices
include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion ditches, and
sediment traps and basins.
   D. A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25') in width
shall be preserved and/or reestablished, where possible, along existing
channels (see subsection (G)2(c)(16) of this section). Construction vehicle use
of channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be
constructed, where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or
along channels shall be restabilized immediately.
   E. Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be designed and
implemented consistent with "Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil Erosion
And Sedimentation Control In Illinois" (1988) also known as the "Green Book"
and "The Illinois Urban Manual" (NRCS, 1995).
            (12)   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control
projects, the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if
the applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
            (13)   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
   A. The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated floodway
study, referenced in subsection (E) of this section, must be used for analysis
of the base conditions. If the study data appears to be in error or conditions
have changed, IDNR/OWR shall be contacted for approval and concurrence on the
appropriate base conditions data to use.
   B. If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of the proposed
construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving stream with a
larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to meet:
         i.   The requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
         ii.   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water elevations.
   C. If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or a private
owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to be
removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
            (14)   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision:
   A. If the appropriate use would result in a change in the designated
floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant
shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and documents
necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision and
receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
   B. The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA until as
built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging, or
excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
   C. In the case of nongovernment projects, the municipality in incorporated
areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the proposed
conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval can be
given.
   D. No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place until a
conditional approval is issued.
   E. After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no activities
shall take place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is issued by FEMA
with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
            (15)   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering
analyses shall be performed by or under the supervision of a registered
professional engineer.
            (16)   Construction In Floodway: For all activities in the floodway
involving construction within twenty five feet (25') of the channel, the
following criteria shall be met:
   A. A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at least
twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
   B. Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
            (17)   Designated Floodway Change: After receipt of conditional
approval of the designated floodway change and issuance of a permit and a
conditional letter of map revision, construction as necessary to change the
floodway designation may proceed but no buildings or structures or other
construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area until
the designated floodway map is changed and a final letter of map revision is
received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and
concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the "as built" plans.
(d) Development Activities In Delegated Communities Requiring State Review: For
those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the following
criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and concurrence and/or
permit prior to the issuance of a permit by a community or county delegated
state permitting authority in the floodway:
            (1)   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed
bridge pursuant to subsection (G)2(c)(4) of this section.
            (2)   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or
culvert crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating
the proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection (G)2(c)(5) of this section.
            (3)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
storage pursuant to subsection (G)2(c)(1), (G)2(c)(2), (G)2(c)(8) of this
section.
            (4)   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined
in subsection (B) of this section) and all other state, federal, or local units
of government projects, including projects of the municipality or county.
            (5)   An engineer's determination that a proposed bridge affected
by backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
            (6)   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
            (7)   Projects in public bodies of water.
(e) Other Permits:
            (1)   In addition to the other requirements of this section, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5 et seq.
            (2)   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has
delegated this responsibility to the village.
(f) Permits For Dams:
            (1)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal
of a "dam" as defined in subsection (B) of this section per 17 Illinois
administrative code part 3702 (rules for construction of dams) shall obtain an
IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of construction of a dam.
            (2)   If the building commissioner finds a dam that does not have
an IDNR/OWR permit, the building commissioner shall immediately notify the
IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office.
            (3)   If the building commissioner finds a dam which is believed to
be in unsafe condition, the building commissioner shall immediately notify the
owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office, and the Illinois emergency
management agency (IEMA).
(g) Activities That Do Not Require A Registered Professional Engineer's Review:
The following activities may be permitted without a registered professional
engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this section, including the mitigation requirements.
            (1)   Underground and overhead utilities that:
   A. Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations, or
   B. Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the floodway,
or
   C. In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe or
encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing streambed,
and
   D. Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the estimated 100-year
frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of an existing bridge
(with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting towers shall be placed
in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not catch debris.
   E. Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway
areas, including the stream banks shall be restored to their original contours
and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
   F. A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5
(1992 state bar edition) shall be provided with shutoff valves on each side of
the body of water to be crossed.
   G. All Illinois commerce commission, national electric safety codes, and
federal requirements for clearance must be met.
            (2)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
   A. Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope, and
   B. Do not result in an increase in ground elevation,
   C. Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall location.
            (3)   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding
fences), properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
            (4)   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
   A. Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
   B. Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
   C. Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional area of the
stream channel or bank of the lake.
   D. Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side slopes are the
preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural rock or riprap
are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete, construction
rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless there are no practicable
alternatives.
            (5)   Temporary stream crossings in which:
   A. The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above natural
grade.
   B. The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up the water
above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or outfall
invert.
   C. The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two feet (2')
below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be nonerosive
material, such as riprap or gravel.
   D. All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon
as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction.
   E. The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within one year
after authorization.
   (H)   Occupation And Use Of SFHA Areas Where Floodways Are Not Identified:
In SFHA or floodplains (including AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A zones) where no
floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevations have been established by FEMA, and draining more than a square mile,
no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation.
      1.   Development Permit:
(a) No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by state
law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the building commissioner.
(b) Application for a development permit shall be made on a form provided by
the building commissioner.
            (1)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations
and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a
licensed engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and dimensions of all
buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of
subsection (I) of this section.
            (2)   The application for a development permit shall also include
the following information:
   A. A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose, and
intended use;
   B. Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn to
scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is proposed to be
in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
   C. Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
   D. Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
         i.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         ii.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water),
floodplain limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow, and
a graphical or numerical scale;
         iii.   Cross section views of the project perpendicular to the flow of
floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed conditions
including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view, existing and
proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation,
100-year frequency flood elevation, and graphical or numerical scales
(horizontal and vertical); and
         iv.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
            (3)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be
submitted showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection
(H)2 of this section.
            (4)   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or
approvals that may be required for this type of development.
(c) Based on the best available existing data according to the Illinois state
water survey's floodplain information repository, the building commissioner
shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation.
            (1)   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the
developer's engineer shall calculate the elevation according to subsection (E)5
of this section.
            (2)   Any development located on land that can be shown to have
been higher than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate
map identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this section.
            (3)   The building commissioner shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map identification.
(d) The building commissioner shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
permit not required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
building commissioner shall not issue the development permit unless all
required federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
      2.   Preventing Increased Damages:
(a) Prohibited: No development in the SFHA, where a floodway has not been
determined shall create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood
heights or velocity or threat to public health, safety and welfare or impair
the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or
impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this section.
(b) Standards: Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway has not been
determined, the following standards shall apply:
            (1)   Engineering Requirements: The developer shall have a
registered professional engineer state in writing and show through supporting
plans, calculations, and data that the project meets the engineering
requirements of subsections (G)2(c)(1) through (G)2(c)(12) of this section for
the entire floodplain as calculated under the provisions of subsection (E)5 of
this section.
   A. As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering study
performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to IDNR/OWR
for acceptance as a designated floodway.
   B. Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR, the developer shall then
demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of subsection (G) of this
section for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be defined according to
the definition in subsection (B) of this section.
            (2)   IDNR/OWR Permit Required: A development permit shall not be
issued unless the applicant first obtains a permit from IDNR/OWR or written
documentation that a permit is not required from IDNR/OWR.
            (3)   IDNR/OWR Permit Exemption: No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be
required if IDNR/OWR has delegated permit responsibility to the village per 17
Illinois administrative code part 3708 for designated floodways.
            (4)   Permits For Dams:
   A. Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a "dam"
as defined in subsection (B) of this section per 17 Illinois administrative
code part 3702 (rules for construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit
prior to the start of construction of a dam.
   B. If the building commissioner finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/OWR
permit, the building commissioner shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR
Schaumburg office.
   C. If the building commissioner finds a dam which is believed to be in
unsafe condition, the building commissioner shall immediately notify the owner
of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office, and the Illinois emergency
management agency (IEMA).
(c) Permitted Activities: The following activities may be permitted without a
registered professional engineer's review or calculation of a base flood
elevation and designated floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this section:
            (1)   Underground and overhead utilities that:
   A. Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations, or
   B. Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the floodway,
or
   C. In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe or
encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing streambed,
and
   D. Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the estimated 100-year
frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of an existing bridge
(with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting towers shall be placed
in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not catch debris.
   E. Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation.
   F. A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5
(1992 state bar edition) shall be provided with shutoff valves on each side of
the body of water to be crossed.
   G. All Illinois commerce commission, national electric safety codes, and
federal requirements for clearance must be met.
            (2)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
   A. Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope, and
   B. Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
   C. Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall location.
            (3)   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
   A. Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
   B. Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
   C. Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional area of the
stream channel by more than ten percent (10%).
   D. Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side slopes are the
preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high channel
velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of alternative
stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural rock or riprap
are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete, construction
rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless there are no practicable
alternatives.
            (4)   Temporary stream crossings in which:
   A. The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above natural
grade.
   B. The crossings will allow stream flow to pass without backing up the water
above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or outfall
invert.
   C. The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two feet (2')
below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be nonerosive
material, such as riprap or gravel.
   D. All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon
as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction.
   E. The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within one year
after authorization.
            (5)   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures;
            (6)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
            (7)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports built at or
below existing grade that would not obstruct the flow of floodwaters;
            (8)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten feet (10') in any one dimension
(e.g., animal shelters and toolsheds);
            (9)   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do
not increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do not extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to
the flow of floodwaters;
            (10)   Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
   A. The affected length of stream is less than one thousand feet (1,000').
   B. The work is confined to reestablishing flows in natural stream channels,
or
   C. The cross sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to that of the
natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
(d) Flood Carrying Capacity: The flood carrying capacity within any altered or
relocated watercourse shall be maintained.
(e) Compensatory Storage:
            (1)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use,
the volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
            (2)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.5 times
the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
            (3)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation
shall be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
            (4)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
   (I)   Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Floodplain Areas: In
addition to the requirements found in subsections (F), (G) and (H) of this
section for development in flood fringes, designated floodways, and SFHA or
floodplains where no floodways have been identified (zones A, AO, AH, AE, A1-
A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M, E, or D), the following requirements shall be
met:
      1.   Public Health Standards:
(a) No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing chemicals,
explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable liquids,
pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection
elevation (FPE).
(b) Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
(c) Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
(d) New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer lines and
on site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other
aboveground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
      2.   Carrying Capacity And Notification:
(a) For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
(b) In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse.
      3.   Protecting Buildings:
(a) All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain also known as an SFHA,
and all buildings located outside the 100-year floodplain but within the 500-
year floodplain, shall be protected from flood damage below the flood
protection elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the
following situations:
            (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet;
            (2)   "Substantial improvement" to an existing building as defined
in subsection (B) of this section, including an increase to the first floor
area by more than twenty percent (20%). This alteration shall be figured
cumulatively beginning with any alteration which has taken place subsequent to
April 1, 1990;
            (3)   "Substantial damage" to an existing building as defined in
subsection (B) of this section. This alteration shall be figured cumulatively
beginning with any alteration which has taken place subsequent to April 1,
1990;
            (4)   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in
subsection (B) of this section;
            (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This building protection requirement
does not apply to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage; and
            (6)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
This building protection requirement may be met by one of the following
methods.
(b) A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be constructed
on permanent landfill in accordance with the following:
            (1)   Lowest Floor: The lowest floor (including basement) shall be
at or above the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   Fill Requirements:
   A. The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches (6") deep
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
   B. The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection elevation.
However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural engineer
certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages due to
hydrostatic pressures.
   C. The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour.
   D. The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties.
(c) A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in accordance with
the following:
            (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl
space, stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. Designs must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or the permanent openings, one on
each wall, shall be no more than one foot (1') above existing grade, and
consist of a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings must have a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation.
            (2)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
            (3)   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
   A. The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical, heating,
ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall
be located at or above the flood protection elevation.
   B. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps,
and other waterproofed service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation.
            (4)   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be
used for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement and not later modified or occupied as habitable space.
            (5)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation; and, shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules
and regulations for the Illinois mobile home tiedown act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois administrative code part 870. In addition, all manufactured homes
shall meet the following elevation requirements:
   A. In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially improved: 1)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, 2) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage from a flood, the
top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above the flood protection
elevation.
   B. In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured home shall be
elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the base flood
elevation or the chassis is at least thirty six inches (36") in height above
grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of equivalent
strength, whichever is less.
            (6)   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection (I)3(c)(5) of this
section unless:
   A. They are on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; and
   B. They are fully licensed, ready for highway use, and used only for
recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent
dwelling. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utility and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(d) Only a nonresidential building may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided that:
            (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood
protection elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are
watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood.
            (2)   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
            (3)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms,
floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose
of this subsection).
(e) A building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the flood
protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
            (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade; and
            (3)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood
protection elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest
adjacent exterior grade; and
            (4)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point; and
            (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event; and
            (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
            (7)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
(f) Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood elevation. In
addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must be protected
to the 500-year flood elevation.
(g) Toolsheds, detached garages, and other minor accessory structures on an
existing single-family platted lot, may be constructed with the lowest floor
below the flood protection elevation in accordance with the following:
            (1)   The building is not used for human habitation.
            (2)   All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in
a designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of floodwaters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of subsection (G) of this section. In addition, all other requirements
of subsections (F), (G) and (H) of this section must be met.
            (3)   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation.
            (4)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
            (5)   The building shall be valued at less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) and be less than five hundred (500) square feet in floor
size.
            (6)   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles
or tools and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar
uses.
            (7)   The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of
subsection (I)3(c)(1) of this section.
(h) Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also meet the
more restrictive appropriate use standards included in subsection (G) of this
section. Nonconforming structures located in a designated floodway may remain
in use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered in accordance
with subsection (G)2 of this section. A nonconforming structure damaged by
flood, fire, wind or other natural or manmade disaster may be restored unless
the damage exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its market value before it was
damaged, in which case it shall conform to this section.
   (J)   Other Development Requirements: The board of trustees shall take into
account flood hazards, to the extent that they are known in all official
actions related to land management, use and development.
      1.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
and planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to
assure that the proposed developments are consistent with subsections (F), (G),
(H) and (I) of this section and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or
plans for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments
(PUDs) shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer
that the plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
      2.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured
home parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations.
(a) Where this information is not available from an existing study filed with
the Illinois state water survey, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible
for calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per
subsection (E)5 of this section and the floodway delineation per the definition
in subsection (B) of this section.
(b) The applicant's engineer shall submit the data to IDNR/OWR for review and
approval as best available regulatory data and then send it to the state water
survey.
      3.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural
streams and channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included
within parks or other public grounds.
      4.   The board of trustees shall not approve any planned unit development
(PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such
agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      5.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so
as not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
   (K)   Variances:
      1.   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
"designated floodway" as defined in subsection (B) of this section.
(a) Whenever the standards of this section place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board of appeals
for a variance.
(b) The zoning board shall review the applicant's request for a variance and
shall submit its recommendation to the board of trustees.
      2.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
(a) The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
(b) An exceptional hardship would result if the variance was not granted;
(c) The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
(d) There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, beneficial
stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation of a
nuisance;
(e) There will be no additional public expense for flood protection, lost
environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations, policing,
or repairs to streambeds and banks, roads, utilities, or other public
facilities;
(f) The provisions of subsections (F)2 and (H)2 of this section shall still be
met;
(g) The activity is not in a designated floodway;
(h) The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not represent a general
problem; and
(i) The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character of the
area involved including existing stream uses.
      3.   The building commissioner shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of subsection (I) of this section that would
lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
(a) Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high
as twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance
coverage;
(b) Increase the risks to life and property; and
(c) Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and that
he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
      4.   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic
site or "historic structure" as defined in subsection (B) of this section, may
be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsections
(K)2 and (K)3 of this section, subject to the conditions that:
(a) The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure; and
(b) The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being removed
as a certified historic structure.
   (L)   Disclaimer Of Liability:
      1.   The degree of flood protection required by this section is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available
information derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
      2.   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes.
      3.   This section does not imply that development, either inside or
outside of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
      4.   This section does not create liability on the part of the Village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this section or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
   (M)   Penalty: Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or
conditions of a variance resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this
section. Upon due investigation, the Building Commissioner may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of this section exists. The Building
Commissioner shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
      1.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
(a) The Village may make application to the Circuit Court for an injunction
requiring conformance with this section or make such other order as the court
deems necessary to secure compliance with this section. (Ord. 2005-05, 5-5-
2005)
(b) Any person who violates this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2008-15, 6-19-2008)
(c) A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(d) The Village shall record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
      2.   The Building Commissioner shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
(a) The Building Commissioner is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing,
shall indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop
work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
(b) No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until
a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state: 1) the grounds for
complaint or reasons for suspension or revocation; and 2) the time and place of
the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his/her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended
or revoked.
      3.   Nothing herein shall prevent the Village from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
   (N)   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions:
      1.   This section is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
      2.   Where this section and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
      3.   This section is intended to repeal the original ordinance or
resolution which was adopted to meet the national flood insurance program
regulations, but is not intended to repeal the resolution which the Village
passed in order to establish initial eligibility for the program.
   (O)   Separability: The provisions and subsections of this section shall be
deemed separable and the invalidity of any portion of this section shall not
affect the validity of the remainder. (Ord. 2005-05, 5-5-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
7-1-20: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   (A)   2015 International Mechanical Code Adopted: The regulations and
standards governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems in the Village of River Grove;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; as
contained in the 2015 International Mechanical Code as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., in book form, are hereby adopted as the
Mechanical Code of the Village of River Grove by reference thereto and the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms thereof and therein contained are
made a part of this Code as though fully set forth and written herein, except
as herein excepted and modified.
   (B)   Copies: At least three (3) copies of said regulations, in book form,
have been on file in the Office of the Village Clerk, for use and examination
by the public, in excess of thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this
section.
   (C)   Violation: It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with those
regulations.
   (D)   Exceptions: The following provisions of the 2015 International
Mechanical Code are hereby amended, excluded, or deleted:
      1.   The term "code official" shall mean Building Commissioner.
      2.   All notices and orders issued under the International Mechanical
Code shall comply with division 31 of chapter 65 of Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      3.   All members of the Appeal Board provided for therein shall be
residents and electors of the Village for not less than one year preceding
their appointment and during their term of service.
      4.   Should any of the regulations hereby adopted conflict with any of
the regulations now contained in this Code, that regulation which is more
restrictive shall control.
   (E)   Amendments: The code adopted in subsection (A) of this section is
hereby further amended by substituting the following sections or subsections
for and in lieu of those sections or subsections with corresponding numbers in
such code, or, where there is no corresponding section in such code, the
following sections or subsections shall be enacted as additions to such code:
Subsection 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Mechanical Code
of the Village of River Grove, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
Subsection 101.2.1 Appendices. Appendix A is hereby adopted and made a part of
this code.
Subsection 102.8 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards
referenced herein shall be those that are listed in Chapter 15 and such codes
and standards shall be considered part of the requirements of this code to the
prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections
102.8.1 and 102.8.2, except that, where an NFPA standard is referenced, said
standard shall be considered part of the requirements of this code in its
entirety.
Subsection 106.2 Permits not required. Work exempt from permit shall be as
determined by the building official.
Subsection 106.5 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until all required fees
prescribed by the Village have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be
released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase of the mechanical
system, has been paid.
Subsection 106.5.2 Fee Schedule. The fees for mechanical work shall be as
follows:
(a)   If value of the mechanical improvement is less than $2,000.00, the fee
shall be $40.00;
(b)   If the value of the mechanical improvement is greater than $2,000.00, the
fee shall be $40.00, plus $8.00/$1,000.00 of improvement value in excess of
$2,000.00.
Subsection 106.5.3 Fee refunds. Insert "fifty percent (50%)" in both
subsections 2 and 3 of this section.
Subsection 108.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision
of this Code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not to exceed
$750.00. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation
occurs or continues.
Subsection 108.5 Stop work orders. Delete the bracketed words AMOUNT in the
last two lines, and insert "two hundred dollars ($200)" in place of the first
bracketed word and "five hundred dollars ($500.00)" in the second.
Subsection 109.2.1 Qualifications. Delete this subsection in its entirety.
Subsection 109.2.2 Alternate members. Delete this subsection in its entirety.
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-1-21: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
   (A)   The regulations and standards governing the design, construction,
alteration, removal, demolition, maintenance and use of all one- and two-family
dwellings, buildings and structures; providing for the issuance of permits,
collection of fees and making of inspections, contained in the 2015
International Residential Code as published by the International Code Council,
Inc., in book form, are hereby adopted as the Residential Building Code of the
Village of River Grove by reference thereto and the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms thereof and therein contained are made a part of this Code
as though fully set forth and written herein, except as herein excepted and
modified.
   (B)   At least three (3) copies of said regulations, in book form, have been
on file in the Office of the Village Clerk, for use and examination by the
public, in excess of thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this section.
   (C)   It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with those regulations.
   (D)   The following articles, sections or words are revised or deleted:
      1.   All applications for permits shall be filed with the Building
Commissioner who shall be responsible for the issuance thereof.
      2.   The term "Municipality or jurisdiction" shall mean the Village of
River Grove; and the term "building official" shall mean the Building
Commissioner.
      3.   The term "chief appointing authority" shall mean the President and
Board of Trustees.
      4.   Any reference to the height of a structure or area shall be subject
to the zoning ordinance.
      5.   All members of the Appeal Board provided for therein shall be
residents and electors of the Village for not less than one year preceding
their appointment and during their term of service.
      6.   Should any of the regulations hereby adopted conflict with any of
the regulations now contained in this Code, that regulation which is more
restrictive shall control.
   (E)   The code adopted in subsection (A) of this section is hereby amended
by substituting the following sections or subsections for and in lieu of those
sections or subsections with corresponding numbers in such code, or, where
there is no corresponding section in such code, the following sections or
subsections shall be enacted as additions to such code:
Subsection R101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Residential
Code for One- and Two-family Dwellings code of the Village of River Grove, and
shall be cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this code."
Subsection R102.5 Appendices. All appendices are hereby adopted and made a part
of this code with the exceptions of Appendices L, N, P, R and S.
Subsection R102.8 Plumbing. The provisions of the current Illinois Plumbing
Code shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of
plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and
appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage system and all aspects
of a medical gas system where not covered by NFPA 99. The provisions of the
International Plumbing Code shall be used for the sizing of toilet rooms and
bathrooms and for all requirements for roof drainage. The provisions of the
International Private Sewage Disposal Code shall apply to private sewage
disposal systems. All references to the contrary shall be deleted.
Subsection R102.9 Electrical. The provisions of the 2014 National Electrical
Code shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of
electrical systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and
appurtenances. All references to the contrary shall be deleted.
Subsection R102.10 Energy. The provisions of the International Energy
Conservation Code, as adopted and amended by the State of Illinois, shall apply
to all matters governing the design and construction of buildings for energy
efficiency.
Subsection R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Work exempt from permit shall be as
determined by the building official.
Subsection R113.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision
of this Code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not to exceed
$750.00. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation
occurs or continues.
Subsection R313.1 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems and Townhouse Residential
Structures. An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall be required
for all townhouses; provided however, an automatic residential fire sprinkler
system shall not be required where additions or alterations are made to
existing townhouses that do not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler
system installed, unless the addition or alteration creates an increase of 65%
or more square feet of the existing structure, or unless the addition or
alteration causes an encroachment into the required setback area.
Subsection R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler
systems.
   (1)   Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems and Detached One and Two-Family
Residential Dwelling Units. An automatic residential fire sprinkler system
shall not be required for detached one- and two-family residential dwelling
units, unless the structure is constructed with the manufactured “I” joists
which shall the require the installation of an automatic fire sprinkler systems
in such structures.
   (2)   Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems Recommended. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, automatic fire sprinkler systems are highly recommended.
Subsection R314.4 Interconnection. Delete the Exception.
Subsection R402.1 Wood foundations. Delete subsection in its entirety. Wood
foundations are not permitted.
Subsection R404.1.8 Rubble stone masonry. Delete subsection in its entirety.
Ruble stone masonry foundations are not permitted.
Subsection R404.2 Wood foundation walls. Delete subsection in its entirety.
Wood foundation walls are not permitted.
Part VII - Plumbing and Part VIII - Electrical are hereby deleted in their
entirety.
Subpart R908. Re-roofing or a re-covering of a roof shall not be permitted
where any of the following conditions exist or occur: (1) the existing roof or
roof covering is water soaked or has deteriorated to the point that the
existing roof or roof cover fails to provide an adequate base for any
additional roofing materials or covering; (2) the existing roof or roof
covering is slate, clay, cement, or asbestos-cement tule; or (3) the existing
roof or roof covering has two or more applications of roofing materials or roof
coverings.
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 9-15-2022; Ord. 2025-12, 3-17-
2025)
7-1-22: INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED:
   (A)   2015 International Fuel Gas Code Adopted: The regulations and
standards governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of fuel gas systems in the Village of River Grove;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; as
contained in the 2015 International Fuel Gas Code as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., in book form, are hereby adopted as the Fuel
Gas Code of the Village of River Grove by reference thereto and the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms thereof and therein contained are
made a part of this Code as though fully set forth and written herein, except
as herein excepted and modified.
   (B)   Copies: At least three (3) copies of said regulations, in book form,
have been on file in the Office of the Village Clerk, for use and examination
by the public, in excess of thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this
section.
   (C)   Violation: It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with those
regulations.
   (D)   Exceptions: The following provisions of the 2015 International Fuel
Gas Code are hereby amended, excluded, or deleted:
      1.   The term "code official" shall mean Building Commissioner.
      2.   All notices and orders issued under the International Fuel Gas Code
shall comply with division 31 of chapter 65 of Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      3.   All members of the Appeal Board provided for therein shall be
residents and electors of the Village for not less than one year preceding
their appointment and during their term of service.
      4.   Should any of the regulations hereby adopted conflict with any of
the regulations now contained in this Code, that regulation which is more
restrictive shall control.
   (E)   Amendments: The code adopted in subsection (A) of this section is
hereby further amended by substituting the following sections or subsections
for and in lieu of those sections or subsections with corresponding numbers in
such code, or, where there is no corresponding section in such code, the
following sections or subsections shall be enacted as additions to such code:
Subsection 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fuel Gas Code
of the Village of River Grove, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
Subsection 101.3 Appendices. All appendices are hereby adopted and made a part
of this code.
Subsection 102.8 Referenced codes. The codes and standards referenced herein
shall be those that are listed in Chapter 8 and such codes and standards shall
be considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of
each such reference and as further regulated in Sections 102.8.1 and 102.8.2,
except that, where an NFPA standard is referenced, said standard shall be
considered part of the requirements of this code in its entirety.
Subsection 106.2 Permits not required. Work exempt from permit shall be as
determined by the building official.
Subsection 106.6 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until all required fees
prescribed by the Village have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be
released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase of the mechanical
system, has been paid.
Subsection 106.6.2 Fee Schedule. The fees for mechanical work shall be as
follows:
(a)If value of the fuel gas improvement is less than $2,000.00, the fee shall
be $40.00;
(b)If the value of the fuel gas improvement is greater than $2,000.00, the fee
shall be $40.00, plus $8.00/$1,000.00 of improvement value in excess of
$2,000.00.
Subsection 106.6.3 Fee refunds. Insert "fifty percent (50%)" in both
subsections 2 and 3 of this section.
Subsection 108.4 Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision
of this Code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not to exceed
$750.00 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed six months or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
Subsection 108.5 Stop work orders. Delete the bracketed words AMOUNT in the
last two lines, and insert "two hundred dollars ($200)" in place of the first
bracketed word and "five hundred dollars ($500.00)" in the second.
Subsection 109.2.1 Qualifications. Delete this subsection in its entirety.
Subsection 109.2.2 Alternate members. Delete this subsection in its entirety.
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
CHAPTER 2
CLASS "A" BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Class "A" Defined
7-2-2: Must Comply With General and Special Provisions
7-2-3: Buildings; Construction of; Height of; Space Occupied on Lot
7-2-4: Skylights; Construction of
7-2-5: Allowances of Live Loads in Construction
7-2-6: Habitable Rooms
7-2-7: Special Room
7-2-8: Mechanical Ventilation
7-2-8.1: Point of Exhaust and Construction
7-2-9: (Rep. by Ord. 1975-14, 11-26-75)
7-2-10: Special Provisions Regulating Single Family Dwelling Units and Single-
Family Residential Homes
7-2-1: CLASS "A" DEFINED:
In Class "A" shall be included every building used as:
Single family dwellings.
Churches and Temples.
Public schools and colleges.
Railroad passenger station.
Farming, truck gardening and nurseries.
Golf Courses and Country Clubs and concessions, usually incidental thereto.
Greenhouses, only when conducted not for profit.
Charitable institutions.
Hospitals.
Parks, playgrounds and Municipal buildings and uses.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year, and the usual accessories located on the same lot with these
various buildings including private garage or private stable, when located not
less than fifty feet (50') from the front lot line, or in a fireproof
compartment as a part of the main building, and including also home occupations
engaged in by the occupants of a dwelling, not involving the conduct of a
retail business on the premises.
7-2-2: MUST COMPLY WITH GENERAL AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Every building of Class "A" shall comply with the general provisions contained
in Chapter 1 of this Title, and in addition to the general provisions shall
comply with the following special provisions.
7-2-3: BUILDINGS; CONSTRUCTION OF; HEIGHT OF; SPACE OCCUPIED ON LOT:
   (A)   Every building of Class "A" which is over three (3) stories in height
shall be built of fireproof construction.
   (B)   Every building of Class "A" less than three (3) stories in height may
be built entirely of wood except as provided for in subpart (F) below.
   (C)   Every building of Class "A" which is three (3) stories in height shall
be built entirely of brick veneer or masonry.
   (D)   The amount of space occupied on any lot by Class "A" buildings shall
comply with the requirements of the Zoning Code.
   (E)   Walls and roof of wood; corrugated iron or galvanized sheet steel
supported on a frame of steel construction.
   (F)   If sixty percent (60%) of existing improvements on any block are
constructed of brick veneer or masonry construction, any new construction of or
addition to any Class "A" building less than three (3) stories shall be
constructed of brick veneer or masonry materials on the first story of any such
new construction or addition. (ch. XVI, Rev. Ord. 1939; amd. Ord. 2025-13, 3-
17-2025)
7-2-4: SKYLIGHTS; CONSTRUCTION OF:
The skylight on the roofs of every building in Class "A" shall be made of not
less than twenty six hundredths (0.26) gauge galvanized iron or incombustible
material and all glass shall be wire glass of not less than twelve square feet
(12 sq. ft.) of glass area.
7-2-5: ALLOWANCES OF LIVE LOADS IN CONSTRUCTION:
In every building of Class "A" the floors shall be designed and constructed in
such manner as to be capable of bearing in all their parts, in addition to the
weight of the floor construction, partitions, permanent fixtures and mechanisms
that may be set upon the same, a live load of forty (40) pounds, for every
square foot of surface for Single Family Dwellings; and one hundred (100)
pounds for every square foot of surface for Churches and Temples; public
schools and colleges; railroad passenger stations; country clubs and
concessions attached thereto; greenhouses; charitable institutions; hospitals;
municipal buildings; temporary buildings.
7-2-6: HABITABLE ROOMS:
   (A)   For the purpose of this Chapter the term "habitable room" shall be
held to include every room in every building of Class "A" and every room in
building of other classes if such rooms are used for the purposes of Class "A"
in which a family or the individual members thereof regularly sleep or eat or
carry on their usual domestic or social vocations or avocations, laundries,
bathrooms, water closet compartments, serving and storage pantries, storage
room and closets, boiler and machinery rooms, cellars, corridors and similar
spaces used neither frequently nor during extended periods, shall not be deemed
as coming within the scope of this term.
   (B)   In every building hereafter erected for or converted to the purpose of
Class "A" every habitable room shall have a window or windows with a total
glass area equal to at least one-tenth (1/10) of its floor area, opening onto a
street, alley or yard, provided that there shall be a space of at least three
feet (3') between the building and the lot line on each side. None of such
required windows shall have a glass area of less than ten square feet (10 sq.
ft.) and each such window shall have its top not less than seven feet (7')
above the floor and shall be so constructed that at least its upper half (1/2)
may be opened its full width. No such habitable room shall have a floor area of
less than eighty square feet (80 sq. ft.) nor a clear height from floor to
ceiling of less than eight feet six inches (8'6"); provided that attic rooms
need not be eight feet six inches (8'6") high for more than one-half (1/2) of
their areas and, provided further, that such attic rooms shall have total cubic
contents of not less than seven hundred and fifty cubic feet (750 cu. ft.)
each.
   (C)   No living room shall be partitioned off or construed in an existing
building or portion thereof until plans of such building and room have been
filed with, and a permit for such partitioning or construction obtained from
the Building Commissioner and every room so partitioned off or constructed
shall comply with all the requirements for habitable rooms as contained in this
Section.
7-2-7: SPECIAL ROOM:
In every building hereafter erected or converted to the purposes of Class "A"
every bathroom, water closet or urinal compartment shall have at least one
window with a glass area of at least six square feet (6 sq. ft.), and a minimum
width of at least one foot opening upon a street or alley or upon a vent shaft
not less in area than said window; and no habitable room shall open into or
connect with a vent shaft thus used, or have a skylight of an area of not less
than twelve square feet (12 sq. ft.). (See Section
7-2-4)
7-2-8: MECHANICAL VENTILATION:
In every building hereafter erected for or converted to the purposes of this
class, every room used as a private sitting room, sleeping room or bathroom, in
which a skylight or window cannot be installed for ventilation purposes, these
rooms may be ventilated by means of mechanical ventilation system which shall
effect at least six (6) complete changes of air per hour; or by a mechanical
ventilation system as approved by the Building Commissioner.
7-2-8.1: POINT OF EXHAUST AND CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   The air removed by every mechanical ventilating exhaust system,
including, but not limited to, those described in Section
7-2-8, shall be discharged out of doors at a point where it will not cause a
nuisance and from which it cannot again be readily drawn in by a ventilating
system.
   (B)   The materials used in every mechanical ventilating air supply and air
exhaust systems shall be of sheet steel or other approved materials. Materials
shall be nonabsorbent and of moisture resisting character, which will not burn,
char, or contribute to the intensity of fire flame spread when in contact with
fire. (Ord. 1965-36, 12-16-65)
7-2-9: (Rep. by Ord. 1975-14, 11-26-75)
7-2-10: SPECIAL PROVISIONS REGULATING SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING UNITS AND SINGLE-
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL HOMES:
   (A)   Single family residential dwelling units are allowed to have one (1)
kitchen to avoid renting and/or overcrowding unless otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   A kitchen located in a basement is allowed only when there is no
bathroom in a basement.
   (C)   A basement is allowed to have enclosed rooms only if an approved
emergency escape window is installed in each enclosed room, and notwithstanding
the foregoing, an enclosed room is not allowed to have keyed locks on any door.
   (D)   If a basement has a bathroom, then a kitchen is not allowed; but
enclosed rooms are still allowed but only if an approved emergency escape
window is installed in each enclosed room, no enclosed room has any keyed locks
on any door.
   (E)   A basement is not allowed to be a rental or a living space.
   (F)   A kitchen in other location of a single-family residential dwelling,
such as on the second floor, is allowed only if no bathroom exists on that
floor.
   (G)   Expansion of a single family residential dwelling unit by the
construction of an additional floor or multiple floors must be conform to the
following conditions in addition to any other applicable building, zoning, or
other code:
      1.   Any additional floor or floors shall not include or contain any
temporary or permanent kitchen facilities of any kind; and
      2.   All access to any additional floor or floors shall be made by the
use of internal staircases or elevators, and exterior entrances and staircases
are specifically prohibited. (Ord. 2021-06, 2-4-2021)
CHAPTER 2.5
CLASS A-2 BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-2.5-1: Class A-2 Defined
7-2.5-2: Compliance With General And Special Provisions
7-2.5-3: Construction
7-2.5-4: Skylights; Construction
7-2.5-5: Allowance Of Live Loads In Construction
7-2.5-6: Habitable Rooms
7-2.5-7: Special Room
7-2.5-8: Mechanical Ventilation
7-2.5-9: Stairways And Fire Escapes
7-2.5-10: Fire Extinguishers, Smoke Detectors, And Emergency Lighting
7-2.5-1: CLASS A-2 DEFINED:
In class A-2 shall be included every building used for the purposes specified
in section 6-3.5-1 of this code. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-2: COMPLIANCE WITH GENERAL AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Every building of class A-2 shall comply with the general provisions of chapter
1 of this title and in addition with the special provisions contained in the
following sections of this chapter. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-3: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Every building of class A-2 shall be constructed of masonry.
   (B)   Buildings not exceeding eight feet (8') in height may be of brick
veneer construction.
   (C)   Any building used for garage purposes shall have a minimum wall
thickness of eight inches (8"). (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-4: SKYLIGHTS; CONSTRUCTION:
Requirements the same as section
7-2-4 of this title. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-5: ALLOWANCE OF LIVE LOADS IN CONSTRUCTION:
Requirements the same as section
7-2-5 of this title where applicable or the building code adopted by section
7-1-17 of this title. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-6: HABITABLE ROOMS:
Requirements the same as section
7-2-6 of this title. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-7: SPECIAL ROOM:
Requirements the same as section
7-2-7 of this title. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-8: MECHANICAL VENTILATION:
Requirements the same as section
7-2-8 of this title. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-9: STAIRWAYS AND FIRE ESCAPES:
Requirements the same as section
7-3-4 of this title. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-1965)
7-2.5-10: FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, SMOKE DETECTORS, AND EMERGENCY LIGHTING:
The owner of a class A-2 building, regardless of zoning district, shall:
   (A)   Install and properly maintain approved fire extinguishers on each
floor landing of each stairway within the building.
   (B)   Install and properly maintain approved 110-volt with battery backup
smoke detectors:
      1.   At the top of each stairway.
      2.   In each dwelling unit.
      3.   In each hallway or corridor depending on building design.
   (C)   Install and properly maintain sufficient number of approved emergency
lighting outlets to enable the occupants to evacuate the building without
difficulty upon failure of the general illumination system. All battery units
shall conform to section 18-27-700.66 of the adopted electrical code.
   (D)   Before commencing the installation of any fire extinguishers, smoke
detectors, or outlets as required by subsections (A), (B) and (C) of this
section, the owner shall submit to the building department for approval plans
showing the location of all fire extinguishers, smoke detectors, and emergency
lights. (Ord. 2002-08, 7-11-2002)
CHAPTER 3
CLASS "B" BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Class "B" Defined
7-3-2: Must Comply With General and Special Provisions
7-3-3: Building Requirements
7-3-4: Stairways and Fire Escapes
7-3-5: Allowance of Live Loads in Construction
7-3-6: Skylights; Construction of
7-3-7: Habitable Rooms; Definitions of
7-3-8: Bathroom; Water Closets; Urinal Compartments; Requirements
7-3-9: Mechanical Ventilation
7-3-10: Allowable Stresses
7-3-11: Foundations
7-3-1: CLASS "B" DEFINED:
In Class "B" shall be included every building used as a:
   Post Office
   Telephone Exchange.
   Hotel, Boarding House or Lodging House.
   Public Garage.
   Automobile filling and service Station.
   Retail stores.
   Offices.
   Restaurants.
   Banks.
   Convention Halls.
   Furniture Storage Warehouses.
   Schools for dancing.
   Bakeries and laundries employing less than five (5) persons.
   Theatres.
   Billiard Halls.
   Wholesale sales office and sample rooms.
   Miniature golf courses.
   Cleaners and dyers employing less than five (5) persons.
7-3-2: MUST COMPLY WITH GENERAL AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Every building of Class "B" shall comply with the general provisions contained
in this Chapter, and in addition to the general provisions shall comply with
the following special provisions.
7-3-3: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   All buildings hereafter erected which come under the heading of Class
"B" must be built of brick.
   (B)   Any building in Class "B" over three (3) stories in height must be
built of fireproof construction.
   (C)   The amount of space occupied on any lot by Class "B" shall comply with
the requirements of the Zoning Law.
   (D)   Brick walls of buildings two (2) stories in height of Class "B" shall
be twelve inches (12") thick in basement, twelve inches (12") thick for first
floor and eight inches (8") thick for second floor except where face brick is
used, then it must be twelve inches (12") thick all the way up. If the building
is used solely for commercial then it shall have a twelve inch (12") wall in
basement and first and second floor. In case of a three (3) story commercial
and apartment, then the basement, first, second and third floor must be twelve
inch (12") thick walls. In case of a three (3) story solely commercial building
then the basement and first floors shall have sixteen inch (16") thick walls
and the second and third floors shall have twelve inch (12") thick walls.
7-3-4: STAIRWAYS AND FIRE ESCAPES:
In every building of Class "B" hereafter erected, of three (3) stories or more
in height, there shall be either two (2) stairways from the first to the top
story or one such stairway and a stairway fire escape.
In every building of Class "B" now in existence, three (3) stories or more in
height with a floor area of one thousand square feet (1,000 sq. ft.) above the
second floor, which is not equipped with two (2) stairways or with one stairway
and a stairway fire escape, safe and adequate means of egress from all floors
shall be provided by the erection of additional stairways or stairway fire
escapes, or such other means as in the judgment of the Building Commissioner
are required for the safety of the occupants of such building or the public.
In every building two (2) stories in height there shall be provided at least
two (2) stairways located as far apart as practicable and extending from the
top story to the ground. A separate door exit shall be provided for each
stairway to the outside of the building.
7-3-5: ALLOWANCE OF LIVE LOADS IN CONSTRUCTION:
In every building of Class "B" the floors shall be designed and constructed in
such manner as to be capable of bearing in all their parts, in addition to the
weight of the floor construction, partitions, permanent fixtures and mechanisms
that may be set upon the same, a live load of sixty pounds (60 lbs.) for every
square foot of surface for Hotels, Boarding Houses and Lodging Houses; a live
load of one hundred pounds (100 lbs.) for every square foot of surface for Post
Office, Telephone Exchange, Retail Stores, Offices, Restaurants, Banks,
Convention Halls, Furniture and Storage Warehouses, Schools for Dancing,
Bakeries and Laundries employing less than five (5) persons, Theatres, Billiard
Halls, Wholesale Office and Sample Rooms, Cleaners and Dyers employing less
than five (5) persons; a live load of four hundred pounds (400 lbs.) for every
square foot of surface for Public Garages and Automobile Filling and Service
Stations.
7-3-6: SKYLIGHTS; CONSTRUCTION OF:
The skylights on the roofs of every building in Class "B" shall be made of not
less than No. 26 gauge galvanized iron or other incombustible material and all
glass shall have a wire glass of not less than twelve square feet (12 sq. ft.)
of glass area.
7-3-7: HABITABLE ROOMS; DEFINITIONS OF:
The same requirements as contained in Section
7-2-6.
7-3-8: BATHROOM, WATER CLOSETS, URINAL COMPARTMENTS, REQUIREMENTS:
The same requirements as contained in Section
7-2-7.
7-3-9: MECHANICAL VENTILATION:
The Same requirements as contained in Section
7-2-8.
7-3-10: ALLOWABLE STRESSES:
   (A)   If the soil is a layer of pure clay at least fifteen feet (15') thick,
without a mixture of any foreign substance other than gravel it shall not be
loaded to exceed three thousand five hundred pounds (3,500 lbs.) per square
foot. If the soil is a layer of pure clay at least fifteen feet (15') thick and
is dry and thoroughly compressed it may be loaded not to exceed four thousand
five hundred pounds (4,500 lbs.) per square foot.
   (B)   If the soil is a layer of firm sand fifteen feet (15') or more in
thickness, and without a mixture of clay, loam, or other foreign substance it
may be loaded not to exceed five thousand pounds (5,000 lbs.) per square foot.
   (C)   If the soil is a mixture of clay and sand it shall not be loaded to
exceed three thousand pounds (3,000 lbs.) per square foot.
7-3-11: FOUNDATIONS:
   (A)   Foundations must rest on hard sound soil, and shall not be laid on
filled or made ground or on loam, or any soil containing a mixture of organic
matter. Foundations shall in all cases extend at least four feet (4') below the
finished surface of the ground upon which they are built, unless footings rest
on bed rock.
   (B)   Every building forty feet or more in height hereafter erected, which
is located adjacent to any street or alley containing any then existing water
main, water tunnel, sewer, conduit, tunnel, subway or other underground
construction, owned or controlled by the Village shall be so constructed that
the foundations or super-structure thereof shall not be supported in whole or
in part by any such underground construction.
CHAPTER 3.5
CLASS "B-2" BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-3.5-1: Class "B-2" Defined
7-3.5-2: Compliance With General and Special Provisions
7-3.5-3: Construction
7-3.5-4: Stairways and Fire Escapes
7-3.5-5: Allowance of Live Loads in Construction
7-3.5-6: Skylights; Construction
7-3.5-7: Bathrooms; Water Closets
7-3.5-8: Mechanical Ventilation
7-3.5-9: Allowable Stress
7-3.5-10: Foundation
7-3.5-1: CLASS "B-2" DEFINED:
In Class "B-2" shall be included any building used for the purposes specified
in Section 6-4.5-1 of this Code.
7-3.5-2: COMPLIANCE WITH GENERAL AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Every building of Class "B-2" shall comply with the general provisions of
Chapter 1 of this Title and in addition with the special provisions contained
in the following Sections of this Chapter.
7-3.5-3: CONSTRUCTION:
All buildings of Class "B-2" shall be of masonry construction.
7-3.5-4: STAIRWAYS AND FIRE ESCAPES:
Requirements the same as Section
7-4-4.
7-3.5-5: ALLOWANCE OF LIVE LOADS IN CONSTRUCTION:
Requirements the same as Section
7-4-5 where applicable or the National Building Code adopted by Section
7-1-17.
7-3.5-6: SKYLIGHTS; CONSTRUCTION:
Requirements the same as Section
7-3-6.
7-3.5-7: BATHROOMS; WATER CLOSETS:
Requirements the same as Section
7-2-7.
7-3.5-8: MECHANICAL VENTILATION:
Requirements the same as Section
7-2-8.
7-3.5-9: ALLOWABLE STRESS:
Requirements the same as Section
7-3-10.
7-3.5-10: FOUNDATIONS:
Requirements the same as Section
7-3-11. (Ord. 1965-10A, 5-13-65)
CHAPTER 4
CLASS "C" BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Class "C" Defined
7-4-2: Must Comply With General and Special Provisions
7-4-3: Buildings; Construction of
7-4-4: Stairways and Fire Escapes
7-4-5: Allowance of Live Loads in Construction
7-4-6: Skylights; Construction of
7-4-7: Habitable Rooms; Definitions of
7-4-8: Bathrooms; Water Closets
7-4-9: Mechanical Ventilation
7-4-10: Allowable Stresses
7-4-11: Foundations
7-4-12: Billboards and Signboards on Buildings of Class "B" and Class "C"
7-4-13: Overhanging Sign Regulations
7-4-1: CLASS "C" DEFINED:
In Class "C" shall be included every building used as:
   Bakery, employing more than five (5) persons.
   Blacksmith or horse shoeing.
   Bottling Works.
   Building material storage yard.
   Carting, expressing, hauling or storage yard.
   Coal, Coke or wood yard.
   Contractor's plant or storage yard.
   Dyeing and cleaning employing more than five (5) persons. Greenhouses.
   Ice Plant and Storage.
   Laundry employing more than five (5) persons.
   Milk distributing station.
   Stone yard and monument works.
   Storage Warehouse.
   Woodworking plant.
Manufacture, assembly, fabrication, packing or storage of goods within enclosed
buildings, provided they are not of such nature as to become obnoxious or
offensive by reason of the emission of smoke, odors, gases, dust, noise or
vibration.
7-4-2: MUST COMPLY WITH GENERAL AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Every building of Class "C" shall comply with the general provisions contained
in Chapter 1 of this Title and in addition to the general provisions shall
comply with the following special provisions.
7-4-3: BUILDINGS; CONSTRUCTION OF:
   (A)   The amount of space occupied on any lot by Class "C" buildings shall
comply with the requirements of the zoning law. (1964 Code)
   (B)   All buildings of Class "C" hereafter erected, which are over four
hundred (400) square feet in area must be of brick or approved metal
construction provided that if metal the following restrictions shall apply:
      1.   The front and all portions thereof facing a public street, shall be
face brick or stone, for a height, above ground level equal to one-third (1/3)
of the height of the building or five feet (5'), whichever is greater.
      2.   All other sides shall be brick or stone for a similar height above
ground level.
      3.   "Brick construction" required in this paragraph may also include
brick veneer. (Ord. 1981-12, 11-5-81)
   (C)   Any building in Class "C" over three (3) stories in height must be
built of fireproof construction.
   (D)   See Section
7-1-13 for additional provisions.
7-4-4: STAIRWAYS AND FIRE ESCAPES:
For additional provisions see Section
7-3-4.
7-4-5: ALLOWANCE OF LIVE LOADS IN CONSTRUCTION:
In every building of Class "C" the floors shall be designed and constructed in
such manner as to be capable of bearing in all their parts, in addition to the
weight of the floor construction, partitions, permanent fixtures and mechanisms
that may be set upon them, a live load of one hundred (100) pounds for every
square foot of surface for bakeries, bottling works, dyeing and cleaning
plants, laundry; and a live load of two hundred fifty (250) pounds for every
square foot of surface for blacksmith or horse shoeing shop, carting and
expressing, and storage warehouse; a live load of two hundred (200) pounds for
every square foot of surface for a woodworking plant; and a live load of
between one hundred (100) pounds and two hundred fifty (250) pounds for every
square foot of surface for manufacture, assembly, fabrication, packing or
storing goods.
7-4-6: SKYLIGHTS; CONSTRUCTION OF:
See Section
7-3-6 of Class "B".
7-4-7: HABITABLE ROOMS; DEFINITION OF:
See Section
7-2-6 of Class "A".
7-4-8: BATHROOMS; WATER CLOSETS:
See Section
7-2-7 of Class "A".
7-4-9: MECHANICAL VENTILATION:
See Section
7-2-8 of Class "A".
7-4-10: ALLOWABLE STRESSES:
See Section
7-3-10 of Class "B".
7-4-11: FOUNDATIONS:
See Section
7-3-11 of Class "B".
7-4-12: BILLBOARDS AND SIGNBOARDS ON BUILDINGS OF CLASS "B" AND CLASS "C":
   (A)   No billboard or signboard shall be erected or placed upon or above the
roof of any building or structure within the limits of the Village, and it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach any billboard
or signboard to the front, sides or rear walls of any building, unless the same
shall be placed flat against the surface of the building, and safely and
securely anchored or fastened thereto in a manner satisfactory to the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   Billboards and signboards not exceeding twenty four square feet (24
sq. ft.) in area when attached to the front, sides or rear walls of any
building, so that the flat surface of same is against the building, or when
erected on the ground, is not erected nearer than fen feet (10') to any
building, structure, or other signboard or public sidewalk which is used to
advertise the sale or lease of the property upon which they shall be erected,
may be built of wood, and such signs and billboards shall be exempt from a
permit except that they shall be securely anchored and fastened that they will
withstand wind pressure,
   (C)   No billboard or signboard or other similar structure over twenty four
square feet (24 sq. ft.) in area shall be erected or maintained within the
Village unless a permit shall first have been secured by the person, firm or
corporation desiring to erect or maintain such billboard from the Building
Commissioner.
   (D)   All billboards and signboards now in existence or hereafter to be
constructed, erected or maintained of sufficient strength to withstand wind
pressure of twenty-five pounds (25 lbs.) per square foot of surface without
stressing the material beyond the safe limits of stress.
   (E)   It is made the duty of the Building Commissioner to exercise
supervision over all billboards and signboards erected or being maintained
under the provisions of this Section; and to cause inspection of all such
billboards and signboards once each year and oftener where the conditions of
such boards so requires; and whenever it shall appear to said Commissioner that
any such billboard or signboard has been erected in violation of this Section
or is in unsafe condition or has become unstable or insecure or is in such a
condition as to be a menace to the safety of the health of the public, he shall
thereupon issue a notice in writing to the owner of such billboard informing
him of the violation, and the dangerous condition and directing him to make
such alterations and repairs as are necessary.
   (F)   The fee to be charged for permits issued for the erection or
construction of billboards and signboards shall be five dollars ($5.00) for
each twenty five (25) or fraction thereof lineal feet and an annual inspection
fee shall be charged every owner for every billboard, now in existence or
hereafter erected which shall be one dollar ($1.00) for each twenty five (25)
or fraction thereof lineal feet.
7-4-13: OVERHANGING SIGN REGULATIONS:
   (A)   DEFINITION: The term "overhanging sign" as used in this Section is
hereby defined to mean and include any sign, signboard, billboard or
advertising device of any kind which extends over any public street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place in the Village, or which is so located that it may
fall upon any such public place. But the term shall not include any billboard
or poster-panel constructed entirely on private property and not extending over
any such public place, provided such billboard or poster-panel is constructed
and maintained in compliance with the provisions of this Code pertaining
thereto. (1964 Code)
   (B)   PERMITS REQUIRED: It shall be unlawful to construct, erect, alter,
relocate or maintain within the Village any overhanging sign, as defined
herein, without first obtaining a construction permit or annual inspection
permit and paying the fees required therefor. (Ord. 1964-39; 12-17-64)
   (C)   APPLICATION: Application for such construction permits shall be made
in writing to the Clerk and shall state the name of the person to construct,
erect or hang the sign; the location of the sign; the name of the owner of the
building or premises on which it is to be placed; and a description of the sign
and of the method by which it is to be secured.
Each such application shall be signed by the owner of the sign and by the owner
of the building or premises to which it is attached, and shall contain an
agreement substantially as follows:
The undersigned jointly and severally agree that the Village through its
officers or employees, may remove the sign above described at any time if it is
in such a condition as to be dangerous or likely to fall, or may repair or
fasten the sign to make it safe, and the undersigned will pay the cost of such
work; and the undersigned further agree that if the annual maintenance fee for
such sign remains unpaid thirty (30) days after it is due the sign may be so
removed and the undersigned will pay the Village the cost thereof.
   (D)   Issuance: Such permits shall be issued by the Clerk upon application
and payment of the construction fee and the maintenance fee for the balance of
the current year; provided that all requirements of the building, electricity,
and other sections pertaining to such sign must be complied with. (1964 Code)
   (E)   Permit Fees: Permit fees shall be as indicated in section
1-27-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1964-39, 12-17-1964; amd. Ord. 2017-18, 11-16-2017)
   (F)   Construction; Regulations: All overhanging signs shall be constructed
of galvanized iron, copper, brass, glass or other non-corrosive incombustible
material. All such signs, if placed at a right or other angle to the wall or
roof of any building shall be attached by such non-corrosive metal bolts,
anchors, cables, or other metal attachments as shall insure permanent and safe
construction, and shall be maintained free from rust or other defects. Every
means or device used for attaching any such sign shall extend through the walls
or roof of the building, and shall be securely anchored by wall plates and nuts
to the inside of the walls or to bearings on the under side of two (2) or more
roof or ceiling joists. Small signs containing less than ten feet (10') of area
may be attached flat to a building by the use of lag bolts or other suitable
means.
Every overhanging sign and its support shall be capable of withstanding a wind
pressure of thirty (30) pounds to the square foot with a factor of safety of 4.
All such signs if attached parallel to a building, shall be placed in close
contact to the walls thereof; if offset from the building, the same shall be
attached with an open space of not less than eight inches (8") between any
portion of the sign and the wall or roof or other portion of said building, in
order to avoid the accumulation of combustible substances. Every such sign
shall be installed so as to be rigid.
The lowest part of any sign, support or appurtenance which extends over any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public way or place shall be at least ten feet
(10') above grade, or not less than fifteen feet (15') above any place used by
vehicles. No sign shall project more than forty two inches (42") beyond the
property line, except that for the purpose of illumination, a hood may be
placed not to exceed six inches (6") additional projection. No sign shall be
supported from any point outside the property line.
No sign shall be so erected, hung, or attached so as to obstruct any window,
door, fire escape, balcony, platform, stairway, ladder, stack, vent pipe, or
ingress to or egress from any building, nor so as to hinder the placing of
ladders against such building by the Fire Department, nor within five feet (5')
of the adjoining property if such sign protrudes more than one foot (1') from
the property line.
   (G)   Existing Signs: This section shall not require the removal of any
existing sign, provided that it is firmly secured and does not interfere with
the use of any fire escape or window, or with pedestrian or vehicle traffic,
and provided that the maintenance fee therefor is paid.
   (H)   Dangerous Signs: It shall be unlawful to permit any overhanging sign
to be or remain in a dangerous condition so that any part of it is likely to
fall upon any public place.
   (I)   Indemnity Bond: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any
overhanging sign in the Village unless there has been filed with the Clerk an
indemnity policy or bond with surety satisfactory to the Board of Trustees in
the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more, if the Building
Commissioner shall recommend to the Board of Trustees that an increased amount
of bond is necessary, and said increased amount of bond can be fixed by the
Board of Trustees, conditioned to indemnify the Village against, and hold it
harmless from any loss, damage or liability resulting from or caused by the
existence, construction, maintenance or fall of such sign. (1964 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING COMMISSIONER
SECTION:
7-5-1: Building Commissioner
7-5-2: Unsafe Condition; Notice To Owner
7-5-3: Arbitration
7-5-4: Urgent Cases; Commissioner's Power
7-5-5: Enforcement Of Provisions
7-5-6: Certificates; Notices
7-5-7: Annual Reports And Estimates
7-5-8: Record Of Inspections And Complaints
7-5-9: Power Of Entry
7-5-1: BUILDING COMMISSIONER:
   (A)   Appointment: The building commissioner shall be appointed by the
president, with the consent of the village board and he shall be responsible
for the building department. The salary shall be fixed at the time of his
appointment. (1964 Code)
   (B)   Duties: The duties of said commissioner shall be to enforce all
building regulations that relate to the erection, construction, alteration,
repair, removal or the safety of buildings; the proper administration and
enforcement of the property inspection and maintenance program of chapter 21 of
this title; and such other duties as are assigned to said office by the
president or board of trustees. (Ord. 2011-13, 4-21-2011)
   (C)   Bond: The building commissioner shall, before entering upon the duties
of his office, execute a bond to the village in the sum of five hundred dollars
($500.00) with sureties approved by the president and the village board.
   (D)   Powers: The building commissioner shall have full power to pass upon
any question arising under the provisions of this code or under any of the
provisions contained in this title, subject to the conditions, modifications,
and limitations contained therein. (1964 Code)
7-5-2: UNSAFE CONDITION; NOTICE TO OWNER:
   (A)   Whenever the building commissioner shall find any building, or
structure or part thereof in such an unsafe condition as to endanger life, but
in such condition that by the immediate application of precautionary measures
such danger may be averted, he shall have authority, and it shall be his duty,
to forthwith notify, in writing the owner, agent or person in possession or
control of such building or structure or part thereof, to put into effect such
precautionary measures as may be necessary in order to place such structure in
a safe condition; such notice shall state briefly the nature of the work
required to be done and shall specify the time within which the work so
required to be done shall be completed by the person, firm or corporation
notified, which shall be fixed by said building commissioner, upon taking into
consideration the condition of such structure, and the danger to life or
property which may result from its unsafe condition.
   (B)   Whenever the building commissioner shall be unable to find the owner
of such building, structure or part thereof, or any agent or person in
possession or control thereof, upon whom such notice may be served, he shall
address, stamp and mail such notice to such person or persons at his or their
last known address, and in addition thereto shall place or cause to be placed
the notice herein provided for upon such building at or near its principal
entrance and shall also post in a conspicuous place at such entrance to such
building, in large letters, a notice as follows: "This Building Is In A
Dangerous Condition And Has Been Condemned By The Building Commissioner". It
shall be unlawful for any person to remove said notices without written
permission from the building commissioner.
   (C)   If at the expiration of the time specified in such notice for the
completion of the work required to be done by the terms of such notice, in
order to render the building or structure safe, said notice shall not have been
complied with and said building or structure is in such an unsafe condition as
to endanger life or property, it shall be the duty of the building commissioner
to proceed forthwith to tear down or destroy the part of said building or
structure that is in such unsafe condition as to endanger life or property, and
in cases where an unsafe building or structure cannot be repaired or rendered
safe by the application of precautionary measures, such building or structure,
or the dangerous parts thereof shall be torn down by said building
commissioner, or by his order and the expense of tearing down any part of such
building or structure shall be charged to the person owning or in possession or
control of such building or structure or part thereof, and the said building
commissioner shall recover or cause to be recovered from such owner or person
in possession or control thereof the costs of doing such work, by legal
proceedings prosecuted by the law department.
If the owner, agent or person in possession or control of such building or
structure, or part thereof, when so notified, shall fail, neglect or refuse to
place such building or structure or part thereof in a safe condition and to
adopt such precautionary measures as shall have been specified by the
commissioner within the time specified in such notice, in such case at the
expiration of such time it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to occupy or use said building or structure, until said building is
placed in a safe condition and in case where it has not been placed in a safe
condition within the time specified in the notice of the building commissioner,
such building or structure shall be forthwith vacated and it shall be unlawful
for any persons to enter same except for the purpose of making repairs required
by the building commissioner.
   (D)   The building commissioner shall have authority to direct the fire
marshal to tear down any defective or dangerous wall or structure or any
building or structure or part thereof which may be constructed in violation of
the terms of this section, after written notice has been served upon the owner,
agent, person in possession or control, directing him or them to tear down or
remove any defective wall, building or structure or part thereof, which is in a
dangerous condition, which has been or is being, constructed or maintained in
violation of the terms of this chapter. (1964 Code)
7-5-3: ARBITRATION:
   (A)   In all cases where discretionary power is given the building
commissioner to estimate damage to buildings, and also in questions relating to
the security of any building or buildings or structures, or part thereof, and
in all other cases where discretionary powers are given by this chapter to the
building commissioner, any party or parties believing themselves injured or
wronged by the decision of the building commissioner may, before instituting
any suit, make an appeal for arbitration as follows.
   (B)   Any person wishing to make an appeal shall do so within five (5) days
after written notice of the decision or order of the building commissioner has
been given. An appeal made later than five (5) days after serving of the notice
shall not entitle the appellant to any arbitration. The request for arbitration
shall be in writing and shall state the object of the proposed arbitration and
the name of the person who is to represent the appellant as arbitrator.
   (C)   The building commissioner shall thereupon inform the appellant of the
cost of such arbitration and such appellant shall, within twenty four (24)
hours from the receipt of such information, deposit with the building
commissioner the sum of money requested for defraying the expenses of the same,
which money shall be fixed in each case by said commissioner in portion to the
time it will take and the difficulty and importance of the case but shall in no
case be more than the cost of similar service in the course of ordinary
business of private individuals or corporations. As soon as such sum of money
shall have been deposited with him, the commissioner shall appoint an
arbitrator to represent the village and the two (2) arbitrators thus chosen
shall, if they cannot agree, select a third arbitrator and the decision of any
two (2) of these shall, after consideration of the matter in question, be final
and binding upon the appellant as well as the village, unless an appeal is
taken therefrom, as provided in case of an appeal under a statutory
arbitration, within five (5) days thereafter.
   (D)   The arbitrators shall themselves, before entering upon the discharge
of their duties, be placed under oath by the village clerk, to the effect that
they are unprejudiced as to the matter in question and that they will
faithfully discharge the duties of their position. They shall have the power to
call witnesses and place them under oath, and their decision or award shall be
rendered in writing both to the building commissioner and to the appellant. The
fee deposited by the appellant with the building commissioner shall be paid by
the inspector to the arbitrators upon the rendering of their report and shall
be in full of all costs incident to the arbitration; but should the decision of
said board be rendered against the commissioner then the money deposited by the
appellant shall be returned to him and the entire cost of such arbitration
shall be paid by the village. (1964 Code)
7-5-4: URGENT CASES; COMMISSIONER'S POWER:
Whenever the decision of the building commissioner upon the safety of any
buildings or any part thereof is made in a case which in his opinion is so
urgent that failure to properly carry out his orders to demolish or strengthen
such building or part thereof may endanger life and limb, the decision and
order of the commissioner shall be absolute and final. (1964 Code)
7-5-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
Whenever it shall be necessary in the opinion of the building commissioner to
call upon the department of police for aid or assistance in carrying out or
enforcing any of the provisions of this code and of the provisions herein, he
shall have the authority so to do and it shall be the duty of the police, when
called upon by the said commissioner to act according to the instructions of,
and to perform such duties as may be required by said commissioner in order to
enforce or put into effect the provisions of this code. (1964 Code)
7-5-6: CERTIFICATES; NOTICES:
   (A)   The building commissioner shall sign or cause to be signed all
certificates and notices required to be issued from the department of buildings
and shall keep a record of the same, and shall issue or cause to be issued all
permits authorized by this title.
   (B)   He shall also keep a proper record of all transactions and operations
of the department and such record shall be at all times open to the inspection
of the president and village board.
   (C)   Said commissioner shall keep in proper books for that purpose an
accurate account of all fees charged, giving the name of person to whom same is
charged and date on which said charge is made, and the amount of each fee.
(1964 Code)
7-5-7: ANNUAL REPORTS AND ESTIMATES:
The building commissioner shall annually on or before the first day of March in
each year prepare and present to the village board a report showing the
receipts and expenditures and entire work of the department of buildings during
the previous fiscal year and he shall on or before November first of each year
prepare and submit to the comptroller an estimate of the whole cost and expense
of providing for and maintaining his office during the ensuing fiscal year.
(1964 Code)
7-5-8: RECORD OF INSPECTIONS AND COMPLAINTS:
The building commissioner shall cause to be kept a complete record showing the
location and character of every building or other structure for which a permit
is issued and shall cause to be filed every report of inspection made on such
building, which report shall bear the signature of the commissioner making such
inspections. He shall cause a record to be kept of all complaints of violations
of the building laws and shall cause all such complaints to be investigated.
(1964 Code)
7-5-9: POWER OF ENTRY:
The building commissioner and his assistants are hereby empowered to enter any
building or structure or premises, whether completed or in process of erection
for the purpose of determining whether the same has been or is being
constructed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this title and
it shall be unlawful to exclude them from any such building structure or
premises. (1964 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7-6-1: Illinois Plumbing Code Adopted
7-6-2: Plumber's Bond
7-6-3: Permit
7-6-4: Water Mains And Pipes; Definition Of Terms
7-6-5: Inspection; Duty Of Plumbing Inspector
7-6-5.1: Inspection Fee
7-6-6: Tapping Street Main
7-6-7: Water Service
7-6-8: Service Pipe; Joints
7-6-9: Stopcocks
7-6-10: Stopcock; Location; Shut-Off Box
7-6-11: Single Tap For Several Buildings
7-6-12: Opening Of Streets; Permit; Deposit
7-6-13: Permit For Use Of Water
7-6-14: High Pressure Steam Boilers
7-6-15: New Plumbing; Repairs
7-6-16: Metal Connections; Requirements
7-6-17: Connections Outside Building And Underground
7-6-18: Drains Connected With Sewers
7-6-19: Separate Drainage For Every Building; Exception
7-6-20: Drainage; Water Supply
7-6-21: Soil Pipe; Size; Increaser
7-6-22: Size Of Soil And Waste Pipes
7-6-23: Pipe; Type, Quality
7-6-24: Vertical Lines Of Pipes; Floor Rests
7-6-25: Pipe Supports; Pipe Hooks Prohibited
7-6-26: Lead Pipe Connections; Wiped Joints; Brass Pipes
7-6-27: Chimney Ventilation Prohibited
7-6-28: Vertical Pipes Through Roof
7-6-29: Pipes Above Main Building; Nuisances
7-6-30: Soil And Waste Pipes To Be Extended
7-6-31: Horizontal Waste Pipes Prohibited
7-6-32: Waste Pipe Connection With Closet Bend
7-6-33: Safe Wastes
7-6-34: House Boilers
7-6-35: Fittings; Quality; Cleanout Fittings
7-6-36: Tapping Pipes
7-6-37: Prohibited Fittings
7-6-38: Pipe Joints To Be Filled
7-6-39: Earthenware Trap Connections; How Made
7-6-40: Slip Joints; Ground Joints
7-6-41: Drainage And Vent Fittings
7-6-42: Trap Revents; Concealed Partitions
7-6-43: Traps; Placing; Water Seal
7-6-44: Trap Prohibited; Where
7-6-45: Connected Wastes
7-6-46: Floor Washes; Prohibited Traps
7-6-47: Bathtubs Drum Trap; Revent
7-6-48: Continuous Vents; Ventilation Of Traps
7-6-49: Sizes Of Vent Pipes; Revents
7-6-50: Sizes Of Vent Pipes
7-6-51: Water Closet Revent; Size
7-6-52: Reventing Washout Closets
7-6-53: Vents In Residences
7-6-54: Vent Pipes Reconnected
7-6-55: Ejectors; Sizes Of Vent Pipes
7-6-56: Vent Pipe Increased
7-6-57: Prohibited Uses
7-6-58: Revent Omitted
7-6-59: Old Work Remodeled
7-6-60: Rainwater Leaders
7-6-61: Steam Pipes; Condensers; Vents
7-6-62: Area Drains To Be Trapped
7-6-63: Cellar Drainer; Ground Water
7-6-64: Floor Washes In Basement; Backwater Valves
7-6-65: Sumps; Tight Cover
7-6-66: Catch Basin To Intercept Kitchen Wastes; Diameter
7-6-67: Catch Basins Within Buildings
7-6-68: Rain Conductor Connections
7-6-69: Wood Sinks And Tubs Prohibited
7-6-70: Water Closets; Flush Tanks; Purity
7-6-71: Cisterns For Water Closets
7-6-72: Water Closets Within Buildings
7-6-73: Places Of Employment
7-6-74: Open Building
7-6-75: Special Permits
7-6-76: Plumber's Notification; Inspection
7-6-77: Inspection Of Repairs
7-6-78: Inspection; Test
7-6-79: Test For Alterations
7-6-80: Certificate Of Inspection
7-6-81: Storm Water Drainage
7-6-82: Overhead Plumbing
7-6-82.1: Flood Damaged Buildings
7-6-83: Water Conservation Regulation
7-6-84: Drainage Of Surface And Storm Waters
7-6-85: Downspouts
7-6-86: Local Plumbing Code Regulations
7-6-1: ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
   (A)   The regulations, standards and specifications governing the
installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension of a plumbing
system, as defined by statute, established and adopted by the Illinois
Department of Public Health in effect as of 1993, the same having been
published in book form, be and they are hereby adopted as the plumbing code of
the Village, by reference thereto and the regulations, standards and
specifications thereof and therein contained are made a part of this Code as
though fully set forth and written herein, except as herein excepted and
modified.
   (B)   At least three (3) copies of said regulations, in book form, have been
on file in the office of the Village Clerk, for use and examination by the
public, in excess of thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of this Section.
   (C)   It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with those regulations.
   (D)   Should any of the regulations hereby adopted conflict with any of the
regulations now contained in this Code, that regulation which is more
restrictive shall control.
   (E)   Whenever the word "department" is used in the code hereby adopted, it
shall mean the Building Department of the Village.
   (F)   All applications for permits shall be filed with the Village Clerk who
shall be responsible for the issuance thereof. (Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-2: PLUMBER'S BOND:
No person, except a bonded State licensed plumber shall be permitted to make
any alterations or repair or do any work in or about any pipe or pipes
connected with any part of the Village waterworks system, or with any pipe or
sewer connected with the Village sewer system. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1964-24,
9-17-1964; Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-3: PERMIT:
No plumbing shall be installed in any place in the Village unless a permit
therefor is first obtained. Application for such permit shall be made in
writing to the Clerk and shall state thereupon the name of the person or
contractor intended to have charge of the installation. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1964-24, 9-17-1964; Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-4: WATER MAINS AND PIPES; DEFINITION OF TERMS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Chapter, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them:
BRANCH SOIL PIPE: Any pipe receiving the discharge from one or more water
closets and with or without other fixtures and leading toward and connecting
with the main soil pipe, but not necessarily extending through the roof.
HOUSE DRAIN: The pipe within any building which receives the total discharge
from any fixture or sets of fixtures, and may or may not include rainwater, and
which conducts or carries the same to the house sewer. The house drain, when
rainwater is allowed to discharge into it, shall not be less than six inches
(6") internal diameter and shall be constructed of vitrified tile.
HOUSE SEWER: The tile sewer, which shall be not less than six inches (6")
internal diameter, and which begins outside of the wall of a building and
connects the house drain with the public sewer in the street or alley or
basement.
MAIN SOIL PIPE: Any pipe receiving the discharge of one or more water closets,
with or without other fixtures, and extending through the roof.
MAIN VENT: The vertical line of air pipe running through two (2) or more floors
to which the vent or revent pipes from the various floors are connected.
REVENT PIPE: Any pipe used to prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
SOIL VENT OR WASTE VENT: That part of the main soil pipe or waste pipe which is
above the highest installed fixture waste connection and extends through the
roof.
VENT PIPE: Any pipe provided to ventilate a system of piping, and to which the
revents are connected.
WASTE PIPE: Any pipe receiving the discharge from any fixture or fixtures other
than water closets.
When sizes of pipes are specified, the internal diameters of pipes are meant.
(1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1964-24, 9-17-1964; Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-5: INSPECTION; DUTY OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
There is hereby appointed a State licensed plumber to act as Plumbing Inspector
who shall cause an inspection to be made of all plumbing and other sanitary
work in all buildings of any kind or description whatever, now erected or in
process of erection, and to compel the observance of all the provisions
contained in this Chapter. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1964-24, 9-17-1964; Ord. 1996-
06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-5.1: INSPECTION FEE:
The minimum fee for all plumbing inspections is fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord.
1999-11, 9-2-1999)
7-6-6: TAPPING STREET MAIN:
No person except the tappers employed by the Village shall be permitted to tap
any street main or insert stopcocks or ferrules therein. All service cocks or
ferrules must be inserted at or near the top of the street main, and not in any
case nearer than six inches (6") to the bell of the pipe. The size of the cock
to be inserted shall be that specified in the permit. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1964-24, 9-17-1964; Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-7: WATER SERVICE:
All water service not less than one inch (1") nor more than two inches (2") in
diameter shall be of "K" copper. Any service over two inches (2") in diameter
shall be of ductile iron pipe. (Ord. 1990-4, 3-1-1990; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-
19-1996)
7-6-8: SERVICE PIPE; JOINTS:
All service pipes leading from street mains to the building line shall be
copper and as far as practicable be laid in the ground to a depth of not less
than five feet (5'), and every such pipe shall be laid in such manner and be of
such surplus length as to prevent breakage or rupture by settlement and all
joints in such pipes shall be of the kind termed "plumber or wiped joints". The
connection of pipe by the so called "cup-joint" is hereby prohibited. (1964
Code; amd. Ord. 1990-4, 3-1-1990; Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-9: STOPCOCKS:
Every service pipe shall be provided with a stopcock for each consumer, easily
accessible, placed beyond damage by frost and so situated that the water can be
conveniently shut off and drained from the pipes. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-
06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-10: STOPCOCK; LOCATION; SHUT-OFF BOX:
Such stopcocks, unless otherwise specially permitted, shall be connected to
within the sidewalk at or near the curb line of the same, and be enclosed in
and protected by a cast-iron box with a cover having the letter "W" of suitable
size cast thereon; such cast-iron box shall be of form and dimensions
satisfactory to the Board of Trustees and shall extend from the service pipe to
the surface of the sidewalk and be of proper size to admit a stop key for
operating the stopcock. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-11: SINGLE TAP FOR SEVERAL BUILDINGS:
Whenever two (2) or more distinct buildings or premises are to be supplied by
means of branch or subservice pipes supplied by single tap in the street main,
each branch shall be independently arranged with stopcock and box on the curb
line in the manner above described. All cocks used at the sidewalks by plumbers
shall be of the kind known as "round water way". (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06,
12-19-1996)
7-6-12: OPENING OF STREETS; PERMIT; DEPOSIT:
Before filling any trench the service cock in the street main shall be covered
with a suitable cast-iron box furnished by the Village; the earth shall be well
rammed under the main to a level with the top thereof; from thence the trench
shall be filled in layers of sand or screenings of not more than twelve inches
(12") in depth, and each layer thoroughly rammed or puddled to prevent
settlement. This work, together with the replacing of sidewalks, ballast and
paving shall be done in all cases by the Village. The sum of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) shall be deposited with the Village, before the issuance of a
permit for opening the street, to cover this expense. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1964-24, 9-17-1964; Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
No permit shall be granted for the opening of any paved street for the tapping
of mains or laying of service pipes, when the ground is frozen to a depth of
twelve inches (12") or more, except when in the opinion of the Plumbing
Inspector there is a sufficient emergency to justify it.
All of the provisions and restrictions relating to the opening of streets,
alleys and public ways and doing of underground work therein as set forth in
this Chapter shall be complied with by every plumber performing any such work.
(1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-13: PERMIT FOR USE OF WATER:
Applications for permits for the introduction or use of water supplied by the
Village shall be made in writing to the Clerk, and signed by the owner or duly
authorized agent of the owner, and no work whatever shall be done in the
street, or outside a building, by any plumber or other person for the purpose
of making any connection to or with any Village water main or pipe until after
the issuance of such permit. This restriction shall not prevent any person from
rendering assistance in case of accident to water pipes occurring at night, or
at any time requiring immediate attention. In case of any such accident prompt
report thereof shall be made to the Plumbing Inspector. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-14: HIGH PRESSURE STEAM BOILERS:
All persons are prohibited from connecting pipes whereby high pressure steam
boilers may be supplied with water direct from Village water mains. All such
boilers shall be provided with a tank or other receptacle of sufficient
capacity to hold at least six (6) hours' supply of water which may be used in
case of a pipe district being shut off for the repair of water mains or for the
making of connections or extensions. In such cases the Village will not be
responsible for a lack of water for steam boilers, or for any purpose. (1964
Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-15: NEW PLUMBING; REPAIRS:
In all buildings hereafter erected in the Village, both public and private, and
in all buildings already built or erected wherein any plumbing is installed or
wherein any sewer connected pipe shall be repaired or changed, except for minor
repairs, on the sewer side of the trap, the drain, soil, rainwater, when
rainwater pipes are within building, waste pipes, or any other pipe or pipes
connected directly or indirectly to any drain, soil or waste pipe, and all
traps shall be placed within buildings and exposed to view for ready inspection
and test, and shall remain so exposed until approved by the Plumbing Inspector.
In no case shall a trap be inaccessible at any time. All steam and hot water
boilers shall be provided with a swing check valve on street side of feed valve
to prevent breaks of water and thereby destroying meter discs and to be
inspected semi-annually. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-16: METAL CONNECTIONS; REQUIREMENTS:
All soil or waste pipes shall be connected to the tile sewer, if a tile sewer
is laid within the building, and if the connection is made above the ground or
floor, by a suitable metal connection, which shall make an airtight and
watertight joint, without the use of cement, mortar, putty or other like
material, and which can and shall be tested with water when placed. Such metal
connections shall be in view at the time of final inspection.
The entire fitting or piece which is used to connect the iron soil or waste
pipe to the tile sewer shall be regarded as the metal connection. Metal
connections which can be removed from the sewer and soil or waste pipes, after
once in place without removing a portion of the iron soil or waste pipe, are
prohibited. No such metal connection shall be used which has not been submitted
to and tested and approved by the Plumbing Inspector and Commissioner of
Health. No tile sewer shall be used above the ground or cement floor or where a
cement joint is exposed to the air. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-17: CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE BUILDING AND UNDER GROUND:
Outside of the building and under ground, the connection between the soil or
waste pipe and the vitrified tile sewer shall be thoroughly made with live
Portland cement mortar, made with one part cement and two (2) parts clean,
sharp sand.
An arched or other proper opening shall be provided in the wall for the house
drain to prevent damage by settlement. The opening around the house drain may
be filled with pure refined asphaltum. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-
1996)
7-6-18: DRAINS CONNECTED WITH SEWERS:
It shall be the duty of every person connecting or causing to be connected any
drain, soil pipe or passage with any sewer from any building, structure or
premises to cause such drain, soil pipe, passage or connection to be at all
times adequate for its purpose and of such size and dimensions as to convey and
allow freely to pass whatever may properly enter the same.
All connections between metal pipes and the tile sewers shall be made by a
State licensed plumber and in such manner as the Plumbing Inspector shall
direct. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-19: SEPARATE DRAINAGE FOR EVERY BUILDING; EXCEPTION:
Every building shall be separately and independently connected with a public or
private sewer when there is such sewer in the street adjoining such building.
The entire plumbing and drainage system of every building shall be entirely
separate and independent from that of any other building, except when there are
two (2) buildings on one lot, one in the rear of the other. If there is no
sewer in the alley to which the rear building can connect, the sewer of the
first building may be extended to serve such rear building. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-20: DRAINAGE; WATER SUPPLY:
All connections with sewers or drains used for the purpose of carrying off
animal refuse from water closets or otherwise, and slop of kitchens, shall have
a catch basin or grease trap and have fixtures for a sufficiency of water to be
so applied as to properly carry off such matters. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-
06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-21: SOIL PIPE; SIZE; INCREASER:
Every water closet located within any building shall waste into a pipe not less
than four inches (4") in diameter. Such pipe shall be increased below the roof
line as hereinafter provided and shall be carried through above the roof. (1964
Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-22: SIZE OF SOIL AND WASTE PIPES:
The least diameter of soil pipe permitted is four inches (4"). A vertical waste
pipe into which a kitchen sink or sinks discharge shall be two inches (2") in
diameter, and at least three inches (3") in diameter if receiving the waste of
five (5) or more floors, and shall have not less than one and one-half inch
(11/2") branches. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-23: PIPE; TYPE, QUALITY:
All soil, waste, vent or revent pipes shall be of service weight cast iron, "M"
copper, or plastic DWV Schedule 40 "PVC" or equivalent and shall be sound and
free from holes, cracks or defects of any kind. (Ord. 1990-4, 3-1-1990; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-24: VERTICAL LINES OF PIPES; FLOOR RESTS:
Vertical lines of soil, waste or other pipes, and rainwater pipes when within
buildings, shall be provided with floor rests at intervals of every second
floor. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-25: PIPE SUPPORTS; PIPE HOOKS PROHIBITED:
The foot of every vertical soil, rain or waste pipe shall be adequately
supported by brick, stone or concrete piers properly constructed by the use of
cement mortar or cement concrete, or shall be otherwise equally well supported.
Pipes under the basement floor or in the ground shall be properly laid, graded
and supported. Pipes above the floor shall either be adequately supported or
suspended.
The use of pipe hooks for supporting pipes is prohibited. At the foot of each
soil or waste pipe shall be placed a cleanout fitting, which shall be
accessible at all times. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-26: LEAD PIPE CONNECTIONS; WIPED JOINTS; BRASS PIPES:
All connections between lead and metal pipes shall be made by heavy brass
solder nipples, or heavy brass or combination ferrules which have been approved
by the Plumbing Inspector. All solder connections shall be regulation wiped
joints. If brass pipe is used, it shall be drawn tubing of No. 18 B. and S.
gauge. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-27: CHIMNEY VENTILATION PROHIBITED:
No brick, sheet metal, earthenware or chimney flue shall be used for a sewer
ventilator or to ventilate any trap, soil, waste or other sewer connected pipe
or opening. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-28: VERTICAL PIPES THROUGH ROOF:
The vertical soil, waste or vent pipes (where the vent or continuous waste pipe
is not reconnected to a soil, waste or vent pipe below the roof) shall extend
through and above the roof at least eight inches (8") and have a diameter of at
least one inch (1") greater than that of the pipe proper; but in no case shall
it be less than four inches (4") in diameter through and above the roof.
The increasers shall extend at least one foot (1') below the roof. No cap or
cowl shall be affixed to the top of any such pipe or pipes. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-29: PIPES ABOVE MAIN BUILDING; NUISANCES:
Soil, waste and vent pipes shall be carried above the roof of the main building
when otherwise they would open within fifteen feet (15') of the windows or
doors of such or adjoining buildings, and shall be not less than six feet (6')
from any ventilator or chimney opening of such or adjoining building or
buildings; nor shall they be located so as to be a nuisance to the occupants of
any building. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-30: SOIL AND WASTE PIPES TO BE EXTENDED:
Except in office buildings and factories, branches or soil or waste pipes of
twenty feet (20') or more in length shall be extended full size, increased and
carried through and above the roof. Branches of waste pipes less than twenty
feet (20') in length shall be either carried full size and increased and
carried through and above the roof or returned full size to the main vent pipe.
(1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-31: HORIZONTAL WASTE PIPES PROHIBITED:
Horizontal soil or waste pipes are hereby prohibited. In all cases the pitch of
pipes used for house drains shall be at least one-fourth inch (1/4") to the
foot for four inch (4") pipes, and at least one-eighth inch (1/8") to the foot
for six inch (6") pipes. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-32: WASTE PIPE CONNECTION WITH CLOSET BEND:
In no case shall a waste pipe from any fixture be connected with any water
closet trap, lead bend, vent or revent connection for same except that a waste
connection may be made to a lead bend in old or repaired work. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-33: SAFE WASTES:
All lead or other safes where necessary under fixtures shall be drained by a
special pipe, the same to discharge into an open water supplied sink or into a
deep seal trap, and in no case shall the safe be connected with any waste, soil
or drain pipe or sewer. The ends of safe waste pipes shall be covered by flap
valves. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-34: HOUSE BOILERS:
The sediment pipe from house boilers shall not be connected into the sewer side
of any trap nor directly connected into any soil or waste pipe or drain. Hot
water boilers for domestic supply purposes shall be equipped with pressure
relief valve and swing check valve on feed side of tank. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-35: FITTINGS; QUALITY; CLEANOUT FITTINGS:
All fittings used for soil or waste pipe, except as hereinafter specified,
shall be heavy tar or asphaltum coated fittings or extra heavy galvanized, cast
or malleable iron, recessed and threaded drainage fittings. The burr formed by
cutting the wrought iron pipe shall be carefully reamed out. Proper sized
cleanout fittings shall be installed at each ninety degree (90°) intersection
of soil or waste pipe. All vent fittings shall be either galvanized, tarred or
asphaltum coated. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-36: TAPPING PIPES:
There shall be no tapping of waste pipe to install a drain line. (Ord. 1990-4,
3-1-1990; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-37: PROHIBITED FITTINGS:
No double hub or straight crosses shall be used on horizontal or vertical
lines. The use of bands, saddles and sleeves is prohibited. Straight tees for
soil or waste pipes shall not be used. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-
1996)
7-6-38: PIPE JOINTS TO BE FILLED:
All joints on cast-iron soil, waste or drain pipes and rainwater leaders shall
be so filled with picked oakum and molten lead and hand caulked as to make them
air and watertight. The quantity of lead used shall be twelve (12) ounces of
fine soft lead for each inch in the diameter of the pipe. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-39: EARTHENWARE TRAP CONNECTIONS; HOW MADE:
All earthenware and closet traps shall be connected to waste or soil pipes by
inserting heavy brass floor or wall flanges, not less than one-fourth inch (1/
4") in thickness where lead bends are used and shall be soldered to the same
and bolted to the trap flange.
Where brass or iron bends are used, brass or iron flanges not less than one-
fourth inch (1/4") in thickness may be used, and shall be screwed or caulked to
the same and bolted to the trap flange, and all such joints shall be made tight
without the use of putty, cement, plaster, rubber or leather washers is hereby
prohibited in making all connections between traps or plumbing fixtures and
soil or waste pipes.
No flange, iron bend or gasket connection shall be used until it has been
approved under test by the Plumbing Inspector. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06,
12-19-1996)
7-6-40: SLIP JOINTS; GROUND JOINTS:
Slip joints shall not be permitted on the sewer side of the trap, unless the
metal connection is required between the soil or waste pipe and tile sewers.
Unions on wrought iron, soil, waste and vent pipes shall be made by means of
metallic brass-seated ground unions, or flange unions with sheet lead gaskets,
and made without other gaskets and packing. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-
19-1996)
7-6-41: DRAINAGE AND VENT FITTINGS:
Where rows of fixtures are placed in line where galvanized wrought iron pipe is
used for vents or revents, galvanized iron, malleable or cast-iron fittings or
cast-iron drainage fittings shall be used.
Horizontal vent pipes unless practical shall not be used. Lines of soil, waste,
or vent pipes shall be done in a thoroughly workmanlike manner. Trapped or
sagged, or drops in vents or revents are prohibited. No vent pipe from the
house side or any trap shall connect to any sewer, vent pipe or soil or waste
pipe. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-42: TRAP REVENTS; CONCEALED PARTITIONS:
Every water closet urinal, sink, basin, bath, and every laundry tub or set of
laundry tubs, or any other plumbing fixtures shall be revented, except as
hereinafter provided for anti-siphon traps.
All traps shall be protected from siphonage by special vent or revent pipes,
except where anti-siphon traps are permitted. Such revented trap shall not
depend upon any concealed partition for its water seal. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-43: TRAPS; PLACING; WATER SEAL:
Traps shall be placed as near to the fixtures as possible, and in no case shall
a trap be more than two feet (2') from the waste outlet of its fixture.
All traps shall have at least a one and one-half inch (11/2") water seal and
they shall be set true with respect to their water level. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-44: TRAP PROHIBITED; WHERE:
There shall be no traps at the foot of soil or waste pipes, nor shall there be
any trap upon the house drain or house sewer.
This Section shall not prohibit the use of traps at the foot of rainwater
leaders or upon drains or sewers used exclusively for conducting rainwater to a
public sewer. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-45: CONNECTED WASTES:
A connected waste pipe receiving the discharge of not more than two (2) basins,
set in line may waste into a single trap, which shall not be more than two feet
(2') from the waste outlet of one of the fixtures. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-
06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-46: FLOOR WASHES; PROHIBITED TRAPS:
When floor washes are connected it shall be by means of a deep seal trap. Bell
traps and cast-iron S and P traps having covers over hand holes on the sewer
side of the trap, held in place by lugs or bolts, are prohibited. (1964 Code;
amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-47: BATHTUBS DRUM TRAP; REVENT:
Each bathtub shall be provided with a drum trap or P trap. Traps on bathtubs
shall be placed in such manner that the cleanout will be in plain view and
above the floor. The drum trap shall be revented through either a "TY" a "Y" or
a drainage fitting. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1990-4, 3-1-1990; Ord. 1996-06, 12-
19-1996)
7-6-48: CONTINUOUS VENTS; VENTILATION OF TRAPS:
Trap vents shall be continuous where possible. Where the vent or revent pipes
are continuous and traps are ventilated through the waste fitting, the center
of the outlet of such fitting shall not be set below the water seal of the
trap; and the trap shall not be more than three feet (3') from the waste
fitting.
No crown venting shall be permitted. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-49: SIZES OF VENT PIPES; REVENTS:
The main vent pipe for traps of water closets in buildings four (4) stories or
under shall be at least two inches (2") in diameter and have two inch (2")
revents, except that revents for the traps of other plumbing fixtures may be
the same diameter as waste traps. In buildings more than four (4) stories high
and not more than six (6) stories high, the main vent pipes for water closets
with or without other plumbing fixtures shall be at least two and one-half
inches (21/2") in diameter. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-50: SIZES OF VENT PIPES:
Vent pipes into which the vent pipes of rows of fixtures are connected shall
not be less than one and one-half inches (11/2") in diameter for not to exceed
three (3) plumbing fixtures other than sink, urinal and water closets. For a
greater number of such fixtures the vent pipe shall be at least two inches (2")
in diameter.
Where the vents from water closets and other plumbing fixtures are connected
into the same vent pipe, the size of the vent pipe shall be at least two inches
(2") in diameter from the main vent pipe to the point of connection to the vent
of the other fixtures not requiring a two inch (2") revent. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-51: WATER CLOSET REVENT; SIZE:
Water closets when placed within buildings shall have two inch (2") revents for
each water closet trap, except as hereinafter provided. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-52: REVENTING WASHOUT CLOSETS:
Where individual washout closets are installed they shall be revented above the
floor line, rubber connections or connections of like material shall not be
used on any sewer connected pipe. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-53: VENTS IN RESIDENCES:
Vent pipes for water closets in residences shall be two inches (2") in diameter
with same size branches, and for other fixtures not less than one and one-half
inches (11/2") in diameter with branches the same size as waste and trap;
except that the vent pipe for kitchen sink shall be two inches (2") in
diameter. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-54: VENT PIPES RECONNECTED:
Vent pipes shall be reconnected to main soil and waste pipes or drain by a "Y"
branch below the lowest fixture and in such a manner as to prevent accumulation
of rust. This shall not apply where there is a battery of fixtures on one floor
only and no other fixtures on floors above or below. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-55: EJECTORS; SIZES OF VENT PIPES:
The soil or waste pipe leading to an ejector or other appliance for raising
sewage or other waste matter to the street sewer shall, where a water closet or
closets are installed, be ventilated by a vent pipe not less than four inches
(4") in diameter. Where fixtures other than water closets are installed the
waste pipe shall be ventilated by a vent pipe of the same diameter as the waste
pipe. Soil vents, vents and revents for ejectors shall be installed according
to the provisions of this Chapter governing soil, waste, vent and revent pipes.
(1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-56: VENT PIPE INCREASED:
Where a vent pipe is carried independently through the roof it shall be
increased as provided for in preceding sections. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06,
12-19-1996)
7-6-57: PROHIBITED USES:
No trap, revent or vent shall be used as a waste or soil pipe. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-58: REVENT OMITTED:
Where a single water closet or other plumbing fixture is located in a building
or on the top floor of any building, and there is an adequate soil or waste
pipe of undiminished size from ground (in building) to roof, the revent pipe
may be dispensed with; provided, that for water closets a nonsiphoning trap,
tested and approved by the Plumbing Inspector, or a closet of approved
construction is used for such work; and provided, further, that the trap of
such fixture is located not more than five feet (5') from such soil or waste
pipe.
Where a toilet or bathroom having not more than one closet and three (3) other
fixtures therein is located on one floor only or the top of a building, and
such closet is set not more than five feet (5') from the vertical soil pipe,
the revent for the closet may be omitted; provided, that a closet of an
approved construction is installed. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-59: OLD WORK REMODELED:
In remodeling work, the existing system of soil, waste and vent pipes shall be
changed to make them reasonably conform to the provisions of this Chapter.
(1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-60: RAINWATER LEADERS:
Rainwater pipes or leaders shall not be used as soil, waste or vent pipes; nor
shall any soil, waste or vent pipe be used for a rainwater pipe or leader.
Where a rainwater leader opens near any window, door or vent shaft, or is so
located as to render it likely to become a nuisance, if not trapped, it shall
be properly trapped far enough below the surface to prevent its becoming a
nuisance or freezing.
Inside rainwater leaders shall be made of extra heavy cast-iron or tar or
asphaltum coated wrought iron pipe, or galvanized wrought iron pipe with roof
connections, made gas and watertight by means of heavy lead or copper drawn
tubing, wiped or soldered to a brass ferrule, caulked or screwed into the pipe.
Outside rainwater leaders may be of sheet metal, but they shall connect with
the house drain by means of a five foot (5') length of cast- iron pipe
extending vertically at least four feet (4') above the grade level. (1964 Code;
amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-61: STEAM PIPES; CONDENSERS; VENTS:
No steam, exhaust, blow-off, drip or return pipe from any steam trap shall
connect with the sewer or with any house drain, soil or waste pipe or rainwater
pipe. The water or steam of condensation from such pipes, before it shall enter
any sewer or drain, shall be discharged into a suitable cast-iron catch basin
or condenser, from which a special vent pipe not less than two inches (2") in
diameter shall extend through the roof. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-
1996)
7-6-62: AREA DRAINS TO BE TRAPPED:
When the area drains are connected to the house sewer or drain they shall be
effectively trapped. Such traps shall be protected from frost. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-63: CELLAR DRAINER; GROUND WATER:
Cellars and basements shall be kept free from ground or surface water, and
where the same are too low to be drained into the sewer, the water therefrom
shall be lifted by a cellar drainer or other device, approved by the Plumbing
Inspector. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-64: FLOOR WASHES IN BASEMENT; BACKWATER VALVES:
Floor washes for basements shall be provided with a deep seal trap, having a
heavy strainer, and a backwater gate valve, or stop, accessible for cleaning.
No backwater valve shall be used which has not been approved by the Plumbing
Inspector.
All building plans, where basement floor washes are connected, shall indicate
where and what backwater valve or device is to be used. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-65: SUMPS; TIGHT COVER:
Sumps or rodding basins for subsoil drains shall be provided with tight cast-
iron covers. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-66: CATCH BASIN TO INTERCEPT KITCHEN WASTES; DIAMETER:
Kitchen or other greasy waters shall be intercepted by a catch basin or grease
trap and thence conducted to the house sewer.
The vitrified tile sewer through which kitchen wastes are conducted shall be at
least six inches (6") in internal diameter. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-
19-1996)
7-6-67: CATCH BASINS WITHIN BUILDINGS:
Catch basins within buildings shall be of extra heavy cast iron or of equally
noncorrosive metal and shall have capacities equal to those prescribed for
brick or concrete catch basins. Such basins shall be provided with metallic
covers of equal thickness with the body of the basin, which covers shall be
securely bolted and made gas tight without the use of rubber, leather or putty
gaskets.
The outlets of such basins shall be trapped and shall have at least a four inch
(4") water seal, with an accessible cleanout opening sealed with a screw plug
or metallic cover which shall comply in all respects with the covers specified
in this Section. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-68: RAIN CONDUCTOR CONNECTIONS:
Rainwater leaders may connect to catch basins. Such leaders shall connect to a
catch basin when they conduct water from a gravel roof. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-69: WOOD SINKS AND TUBS PROHIBITED:
The installation of stationary wooden sinks and wooden laundry tubs is
prohibited inside of any building used for human habitation. Such sinks and
tubs shall be of nonabsorbent material. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-
1996)
7-6-70: WATER CLOSETS; FLUSH TANKS; PURITY:
All water closets and urinals within any building shall be supplied from
special tanks or approved automatically flushing valves having flush pipes at
least one and one-quarter inches (11/4") in diameter. The water from such tanks
or cisterns shall not be used for any other purpose. The purity of such water
and of water used in all other plumbing fixtures shall be equal to the purity
of the water supplied through the Village waterworks system. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-71: CISTERNS FOR WATER CLOSETS:
Where cisterns are used for water closets they shall have a siphon discharge.
The valves of such cisterns shall be fitted and adjusted so as to prevent a
waste of water. When the Village pressure is not sufficient to supply such
cisterns or plumbing fixtures with water, adequate pumps or house tanks shall
be provided. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-72: WATER CLOSETS WITHIN BUILDINGS:
All water closets within buildings shall have flushing rim bowls. (1964 Code;
amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-73: PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT:
In all places of employment where men and women are employed, such as schools,
meeting halls and public buildings and taverns, separate and sufficient water
closets shall be provided for males and females. Water closets for men shall be
plainly marked "Men's Toilet" and water closets for women shall be plainly
marked "Women's Toilet".
In all places of employment, or public meeting places, one water closet and
lavatory shall be provided for every twenty five (25) males or less number; and
one water closet shall be provided for every twenty (20) females or less
number. Such water closet facilities shall be furnished upon at least every
second floor. Where there are employees in any basement, such basement shall be
considered as one floor. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-74: OPEN BUILDING:
All plumbing fixtures shall be installed as open plumbing. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-75: SPECIAL PERMITS:
Special permits will be issued by the Plumbing Inspector only.
Where special permits are issued, the location shall be inspected before the
work is started, and duplicate plans in ink, in the name of the owner, agent or
architect, shall be submitted and approved and placed on file. These plans
shall show the proposed work, in plan and elevation. Such plans shall be drawn
on paper or cloth and drawn to a quarter inch (1/4") to the foot scale.
The installation of any sewer connected fixture or of any sewer connected pipe
or pipes other than those hereinbefore mentioned, or under any other conditions
than those hereinbefore set forth, shall be as directed by the plumbing
inspector, and the same shall be covered by special permits issued by him.
(1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-76: PLUMBER'S NOTIFICATION; INSPECTION:
When the plumbing in any building is ready for inspection, the plumber in
charge of the work shall immediately notify the plumbing inspector in writing
of such fact at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of inspection.
Inspections will not be made the same day that notifications are received.
(1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-77: INSPECTION OF REPAIRS:
The following repairs and extensions to any part of the plumbing and drainage
system in any building shall also be reported for inspection, viz.: where there
is any change in any sewer connected pipe, and where such change is on the
sewer side of the trap, except in the case of minor repairs. (1964 Code; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-78: INSPECTION; TEST:
The entire plumbing system, when roughed in, in any building, shall be tested
by the plumber in the presence of the plumbing inspector and as directed by
him, under either a water pressure or air pressure.
The water pressure test for plumbing shall be applied by closing the lower end
of the vertical pipes and filling the pipes to the highest opening above the
roof with water. The air pressure test for plumbing shall be applied with a
force pump and mercury column equal to ten inches (10") of mercury. The use of
spring gauges is prohibited. Special provision shall be made to include all
joints and connections to the finished line or face of floors or side walls, so
that all vents or revents, including lead work, may be tested with the main
stacks. All pipes shall remain uncovered in every part until they have
successfully passed the test. After the completion of the work, and when
fixtures are installed, either a smoke test under a pressure of one inch (1")
water column shall be made of the system, including all vent and revent pipes,
in the presence of the plumbing inspector and as directed by him, or a
peppermint test made by using five (5) fluid ounces of oil of peppermint for
each line up to five (5) stories and basement in height, and for each
additional five (5) stories or fraction thereof one additional ounce of
peppermint shall be provided for each line.
All defective pipes and fittings or fixtures shall be removed and all defective
work shall be made good so as to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
The tile drainage system inside any building shall be tested by the drainage
layer or sewer builder, in the presence of the plumbing inspector, by closing
up the end of the drains two feet (2') outside the building and filling the
pipes inside the building with water to a height of at least two feet (2')
above the highest point of the tile drainage system. (1964 Code; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-79: TEST FOR ALTERATIONS:
In the case of an extension or alteration of any existing plumbing system, the
same, if new stacks are run, shall be tested when roughed in and when
completed, as hereinbefore provided. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-80: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION:
When the plumbing in a building is completed, the plumber or his
representatives shall secure for the owner of such building from the plumbing
inspector, a certificate of inspection, signed by the plumbing inspector,
certifying that the plumbing work has been properly inspected and tested as
required by the provisions of this chapter. (1964 Code; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-
19-1996)
7-6-81: STORM WATER DRAINAGE:
   (A)   Complete separation of storm and sanitary flow shall be provided
within the property lines.
   (B)   Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps, and discharge shall
be made into storm sewers, combined sewers or drainage ditches. No footing
drains or drainage tile shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge ground waters or other
storm waters shall be connected to storm or combined sewers or discharge into a
drainage ditch. Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge floor drain flow
or other sanitary sewerage shall be connected to the sanitary or combined
sewers. A sump pump shall be used for one function only: either the discharge
of storm waters or the discharge of sanitary sewage.
   (D)   All sanitary sewers and connections shall be constructed and
maintained in compliance with the following conditions:
      1.   All sewers and connections shall prohibit introduction of new inflow
to a sanitary sewer; and
      2.   Any new construction tributary to the combined sewer system shall be
designed to minimize and/or delay inflow contribution to the combined sewer
system; and
      3.   All inflow sources on the combined sewer system shall be connected
to a storm sewer, within a reasonable period of time, if a storm sewer becomes
available; and
      4.   Any new building domestic waste connection shall be distinct from
the building storm water collection system, to facilitate disconnection if a
storm sewer becomes available; and
      5.   All owners of combined sewers tributary to the village's combined
sewer system are required to meet the minimum requirements regarding the
objectives, mechanisms and specific procedures for operation and maintenance of
Illinois environmental protection agency NPDES permit ILM580021; and
      6.   All nondomestic sources discharging nondomestic waste to the village
sewer systems are required to obtain a permit from the metropolitan water
reclamation district of greater Chicago (MWRD) for these discharges and are
subject to revisions and modifications to the MWRD sewage and waste control
ordinance regarding control of pollutants. (Ord. 2007-15, 7-19-2007)
7-6-82: OVERHEAD PLUMBING:
All new buildings, hereafter erected, with basements, floors, rooms or
occupancy areas below ground level at the building site and served by a public
or private water system, shall be overhead plumbing. (Ord. 1971-11, 1971; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-82.1: FLOOD DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
Where feasible, overhead plumbing, sewer backup valve or other sewer backflow
prevention device shall be installed in all existing buildings that have been
damaged by flooding from sewer backup. (Ord. 1986-11, 11-6-1986; amd. Ord.
1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-83: WATER CONSERVATION REGULATION:
Water conservation notwithstanding anything in this code to the contrary, the
following regulations shall affect and be applicable to all new, remodeling or
reconstruction work within the village:
   (A)   Fixtures And Trim: In all new construction and in all repair and/or
replacement of fixtures or trim, only fixtures and trim not exceeding the
following flow rates and/or water usage shall be installed. These ratings are
based on a pressure at the fixture of forty (40) to fifty (50) psi.
 
Water closets, tank type         3.5 gal. per flush
Water closets, flushometer type  3.0 gal. per flush
Urinals, tank type               3.0 gal. per flush
Urinals, flushometer type        3.0 gal. per flush
Showerheads                      3.0 gpm
Lavatory, sink faucets           3.0 gpm
 
   (B)   Lavatories For Public Use: Faucets of lavatories located in restrooms
intended for public use shall be of the metering or self-closing type.
   (C)   Car Wash Installation: Car wash installations shall be equipped with a
water recycling system. (Ord. 1980-10, 6-12-1980; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-
1996)
   (D)   Air Conditioning Systems: All air conditioning systems installed shall
be of the closed system type. (Ord. 1983-3, 6-16-1983; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-
19-1996)
7-6-84: DRAINAGE OF SURFACE AND STORM WATERS:
All surface and storm water shall be drained so as to avoid entry onto the
property of an adjoining owner.
   (A)   Gutters and downspouts shall be required on all residential
structures, including private garages.
   (B)   It is unlawful to change, alter or modify the topography of any land
within the village so as to alter the flow pattern of surface and storm waters
causing their entry onto the land of another. (Ord. 1982-1, 2-18-1982; amd.
Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-85: DOWNSPOUTS:
   (A)   The installation of downspouts of gutter systems on all new residences
and the replacement of downspouts of gutter systems on all existing residences
shall be made in a manner so as to provide that such downspouts do not connect
with, or directly drain into, the sanitary sewer system. Such downspouts shall
be installed so as to drain directly into the front or rear yard of the
residence, and no such downspouts shall drain into the side yard of such
residence, or directly onto adjoining property. The installation of such
downspouts shall further be made in a manner so that the downspout is directed
to drain generally toward the center of either the front or rear yard into
which it is draining.
   (B)   Effective June 1, 1991, no buildings used for residential purposes in
any zoning district, including single-family or multi-family residential
buildings, and which are equipped with exterior downspouts which direct water
from gutters or scuppers to the sewer system, shall be allowed to discharge
storm water from such gutters directly into the combined sewer system. Such
buildings shall have all downspouts splash with port discharge to the front or
rear of the building in a manner so that the downspout is directed to drain
generally toward the center of either the front or rear yard into which it is
draining. No such downspout shall drain into the side yard of such residence or
directly onto adjoining property. The pipe that carries roof water into the
combined sewer system shall be terminated at grade or at the nearest hub to
grade and sealed with cement to provide a positive disconnection of the
downspout from the sewer. All downspouts shall be located in such manner that
said roof water shall not damage the same or adjoining properties or become a
nuisance to occupants of the same.
   (C)   Variations and exceptions to the requirements of this section may be
made, upon written application, by the building commissioner and plumbing
inspector, in those cases where, in their opinion, the enforcement of such
requirements will create an associated storm water hazard to the building or
part thereof or to a neighboring building or the design of the gutter system
makes compliance impracticable.
(Ord. 1990-2, 2-15-1990; amd. Ord. 1996-06, 12-19-1996)
7-6-86: LOCAL PLUMBING CODE REGULATIONS:
The following regulations, standards and specifications shall apply in lieu of
those set forth in the Illinois Plumbing Code adopted pursuant to Ordinance No.
1996-06:
   (A)   UNDERGROUND WATER
      1.   Minimum water service shall be one inch (1") pipe.
      2.   Copper Type K 1" thru 2" service is required from the water main to
water meter.
      3.   Service larger than two inches (2") shall be ductile-iron pipe.
   (B)   ABOVE GROUND WATER PIPING
      1.   All above-ground water piping shall be Copper Type L Pipe with lead
free solder and water-soluble flux.
      2.   All valves in buildings measuring two inches (2") or less shall be
full port ball valves.
   (C)   WATER HEATERS
      1.   Potable water expansion tanks shall be installed on all water
heaters.
      2.   Relief discharge pipe shall be metallic pipe.
      3.   Water heaters shall include pans under the heater when installed in
living spaces and provide a suitable drain.
   (D)   ADDITIONAL PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS.
      1.   Silcocks and hose bib connections shall have vacuum breakers.
      2.   Plastic water supply tubes shall not be allowed.
      3.   Dielectric fittings shall be used when joining steel and copper
piping.
      4.   Shower valves must be Posi-Temp or Pressure Balancing, and have
integral stops.
   (E)   BACKFLOW PREVENTION. All plumbing work shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the Back-Flow Prevention Ordinance, Section
7-6.1-1, et seq, including without limitation:
      1.   Reduced Pressure Zone (RPZ) backflow prevention devices shall be
standard for commercial and industrial water customers, and the type, size and
other information concerning the meter shall be confirmed with the Department
of Public Works before installation.
      2.   All lawn sprinkler systems shall require RPZs.
   (F)   ABOVE GROUND DRAIN WASTE AND VENT PIPING. Above-ground drain waste and
vent piping shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Schedule 40 PVC Pressure Pipe shall be used (NO CELL CORE)
      2.   Type M Copper with wrought fittings shall be used.
      3.   Cast iron with lead and oakum.?
      4.   Cast iron no hub.
      5.   Full size clean-out at base of each stack.
      6.   Transitions from cast iron shall be made with soil adapters.
   (G)   UNDERGROUND WASTE AND VENT INSIDE STRUCTURE
      1.   Cast iron push gasket.
      2.   Schedule 40 PVC Pressure Pipe (NO CELL CORE).
   (H)   UNDERGROUND SEWER PIPE
   (I)   SDR Sewer Pipe Push Gasket Bell and Spigot.
   (J)   SDR Fitting and No Shear Mission Bands.
   (K)   No Solvent Welded Pipe Buried outside of structure.
(Ord. 2022-15, 9-15-2022)
CHAPTER 6.1
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-6.1-1: Backflow Protection Required
7-6.1-2: Alternate Water Supply, Approval Required
7-6.1-3: Surveys Required
7-6.1-4: Power to Enter, Inspection
7-6.1-5: Discontinue Service, Violation
7-6.1-6: Consumer Responsibility, Contamination
7-6.1-7: General Policy
7-6.1-8: Definitions
7-6.1-9: Cross-Connection Prohibited
7-6.1-10: Surveys and Investigations
7-6.1-11: Where Protection is Required
7-6.1-12: Type of Protection Required
7-6.1-13: Backflow Prevention Devices
7-6.1-14: Inspections and Maintenance
7-6.1-15: Booster Pumps
7-6.1-16: Violations
7-6.1-17: Corrective Actions
7-6.1-1: BACKFLOW PROTECTION REQUIRED:
If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent will give notice
to the water customer to install such a device immediately. The water customer
shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in
a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code and all applicable
regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices
as required by such Code and regulations.
7-6.1-2: ALTERNATE WATER SUPPLY, APPROVAL REQUIRED:
No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintained or permit
to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply, other than the regular public water supply of Village may enter into
the supply or distribution system of Village, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Superintendent and the Agency.
7-6.1-3: SURVEYS REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and investigations
to be made of industrial and other properties served by the public water supply
system to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply system may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter
of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years or as often
as the Superintendent shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be
maintained and available for review for a period of at least five (5) years.
7-6.1-4: POWER TO ENTER, INSPECTION:
The Inspector shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any
property served by a connection to the public water supply system of the
Village for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-
connections; Superintendent or his authorized agents shall have the right to
enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the
public water supply system of the Village for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required inspection. On
demand, the owners, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall
furnish to the Superintendent any information which he may request regarding
the piping system or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the Superintendent
be deemed evidence of improper connections as provided in this Chapter.
7-6.1-5: DISCONTINUE SERVICE, VIOLATION:
The Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this Chapter is known
to exist and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem necessary
to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and
until a reconnection fee in accordance with the Village Code is paid.
7-6.1-6: CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY; CONTAMINATION:
The consumer responsible for the backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system.
7-6.1-7: GENERAL POLICY:
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these Rules and Regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable quality.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These Rules and Regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of Village.
   (C)   The owner of official custodian shall be responsible for protection of
the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or
backsiphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service connection.
If, in the judgment of the Superintendent or his authorized agent, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice to the consumer to install
such a device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall,
within the prescribed time indicated in said notice, install such device or
devices at his own expense; failure or refusal so to do shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to such premises until the same have
been so installed. The consumer shall retail records of installation,
maintenance, testing and repair, as herein required, for a period of at least
five (5) years.
7-6.1-8: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter and its enforcement, the following shall have
the meaning respectively ascribed to them:
AGENCY: Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices, methods or installation approved by
Village, based on the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the
University of Southern California, American Waterworks Association, American
National Standards Institute, American Society of Stationary Engineers or
certified by the National Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: A source of water outside of the Village public water
supply system.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction intended
to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for backflow
prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois Plumbing Code
and the Agency.
CONSUMER or CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S or CUSTOMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system serving the premises,
commencing at the outlet side of the service pipe shutoff valve as stated in
the Village Code.
CONTAMINATION: The introduction into water of micro-organisms, chemicals,
wastes or waste water in a concentration that makes water unfit for it's
intended use.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: President and Board of Trustees of Village.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any connection through which a supply of potable water could
be contaminated or polluted.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves, including tight shutoff valves located at each end of the
assembly and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check
valve.
FIXED AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to assure compliance with this Chapter.
INSPECTOR: Approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector.
LOCAL AUTHORITY: President and Board of Trustees of Village.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
defined and determined in 35 Illinois Administrative Code 604.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person; includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
but not limited to lawn sprinkler systems from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb,
to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live,
work or assemble; includes all piping from discharge of pumping units to and
including pressure tanks in water supply systems; includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building drain and a sanitary
drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings where a
person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection of such
building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system five
feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water, that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system, including, but not limited to: polluted
or contaminated waters; process waters; used waters originating from the public
water supply system which may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; cooling
waters; questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems; chemicals in solution or suspension; oils,
gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or
other processes or for fire fighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: All mains, pipes and structures owned and/or
maintained by the Village, through which water is obtained and distributed to
the public, including wells and well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping
stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances,
collectively or severally, actually used or intended for use, for the purpose
of furnishing potable water.
REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing
a minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves. During normal flow and the cessation of normal flow, the
pressure between these two (2) checks shall be less than the supply pressure.
In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by
discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between
the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit must include
tightly closed shutoff valves located at each end of the device and each device
shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The physical connection to the water main including all
fittings and appurtenances, through which water is supplied to the consumer.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public supply system and must
include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of all
cross-connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey shall be completed on a form supplied by Village.
SUPERINTENDENT: Superintendent of Water of Village.
VILLAGE: Village of River Grove.
7-6.1-9: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Connections between the public water supply system and other systems
or equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devises or methods are installed, tested and maintained to insure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   1. No connection shall be permitted between the public water supply
system and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological and
chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by Agency and/or the
Village.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which contamination
may enter the public water supply system.
7-6.1-10: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be opened at all reasonable times to the
certified cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
premises or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devises within the
consumer's premises.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent, or his authorized representative,
the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping systems for water
use within the consumer's premises and cross-connection inspection results.
The consumer's premises shall be opened at all reasonable times to the
Superintendent for the verification of information submitted by the consumer
regarding the piping system or systems for water use and cross-connection
inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on the consumer's premise to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to the consumer's water
system through which contamination or pollution could backflow into the
consumer's or the public potable system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with Illinois Revised
Statutes 1983, ch. 111, par. 1103(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility and financial obligation of the water
consumer to prevent backflow into the public water supply system by ensuring
that:
      1.   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and backsiphonage.
      2.   Cross-connection control devises shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at least
annually by a person approved by the Agency as an inspector (CCCDI). The
inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing and Records.
         (a) Each device shall be tested at least annually or more frequently
if recommended by the manufacturer, or Superintendent.
         (b) Records submitted to the Superintendent shall be available for
inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with Illinois Revised Statutes
1983, ch. 1111/2, par. 1004(e).
         (c) Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         (d) A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test.
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the inspection
or test;
            (3)   Test results/inspection;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Services performed and date completed.
7-6.1-11: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water service line to a consumer's water system, when in the judgment of the
Superintendent or his authorized representative, actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply system may exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water service line to a consumer's water system where the following conditions
exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water system, unless such auxiliary
water system is accepted as an additional source, is approved by the Agency and
local authority.
      2.   Premises where any substances exist which can create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water supply system.
      3.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgement of
the Superintendent are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which
make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connections survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water line to a consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities unless the Superintendent determines that
no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exist:
      1.   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
7-6.1-12: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   (A)   The type of protection required shall depend on the degree of hazard
which exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed air gap shall be installed where the public water
supply system may be contaminated causing a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed air gap or an approved reduced pressure zone
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public water
supply system may be contaminated causing a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure zone principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
public water system may be polluted with substances that could cause a
pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under Section
7-6.1-11 of these regulations shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed between the fire sprinkler systems connected to the public water
supply system when:
      1.   The sprinkler system contains antifreeze and/or chemical additives.
      2.   Water may be pumped into the system from another source can be
connected to the sprinkler system.
7-6.1-13: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
All backflow prevention devices, methods, installations and maintenance
required by these rules and regulations shall be approved by the Village, based
on the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of
Southern California, American Water Works Association, American Society of
Sanitary Engineering, or the American National Standards Institute or certified
by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in compliance with applicable
specification, manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be on site.
7-6.1-14: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and
required service performed within fifteen (15) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached including the information as
required in Section 7-6.1-10(D)3 and 4 of this Chapter.
   (D)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer within fifteen (15) days or as specified by the Superintendent.
   (E)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent.
   (F)   Copies of all test results shall be forwarded to the Superintendent at
the time of each inspection as described in Section
7-6.1-4.
7-6.1-15: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent at least once a year that the device is operable.
7-6.1-16: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   The Superintendent may deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to
the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent, or if it
is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or
if an unprotected cross-connection exists in the premises, or if a low pressure
cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and maintained in
working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
7-6.1-17: CORRECTIVE ACTIONS:
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village from taking such
other action as it deems necessary to prevent or remedy a violation of this
Chapter.
   (B)   After the adoption and approval hereof, the Chapter shall be printed
or published in book or pamphlet form, published by the authority of the
corporate authorities. (Ord. 1987-8, 6-4-87)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-7-1: National Electrical Code Adopted
7-7-2: Authority For Adoption
7-7-3: Electrical Inspection Department; Creation
7-7-4: Electrical Commission; Creation
7-7-5: Duties Of The Electrical Commission
7-7-6: Penalties
7-7-7: Additions
7-7-8: Inspection Fees
7-7-1: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   (A)   The regulations, standards and specifications governing the
installation, alteration and use of electrical equipment, the issuance of
permits therefor and the fees to be paid for the inspection of all electrical
equipment installed or altered, contained in the 2014 National Electrical Code
(NFPA 70), as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), the
same having been published in book form, be and they are hereby adopted as the
Electrical Code of the Village by reference thereto and the regulations,
standards and specifications thereof and therein contained are made a part of
this Code as though fully set forth and written herein, except as herein
excepted and modified.
   (B)   It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with those regulations.
   (C)   The following chapters, sections or words are revised or deleted:
      1.   Chapters 13-12 and 13-20 are not adopted.
      2.   Whenever in said code so adopted reference is made to the terms in
the left column below, the terms in the right column shall be substituted:
 
Bureau of Electrical Inspection  Electrical Inspection Department
Commr. of the Dept. of Buildings Building Commissioner
 
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-7-2: AUTHORITY FOR ADOPTION:
The adoption of the National Electrical Code by reference, as aforesaid, is
pursuant to the authority granted in article 1, division 3, Incorporation by
Reference of Certain Construction Regulations, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1-3. As required therein, at least three (3) copies of said regulations, in
book form, have been on file in the Office of the Village Clerk, for use and
examination by the public, in excess of thirty (30) days prior to the adoption
of this section. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-7-3: ELECTRICAL INSPECTION DEPARTMENT; CREATION:
There is hereby established, pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-37-
2, an Electrical Inspection Department, which shall be under the jurisdiction
and control of the Building Commissioner. Said department shall be under the
direction of the chief electrical inspector, whose duty it shall be to enforce
the electrical regulations of this Code. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-7-4: ELECTRICAL COMMISSION; CREATION:
There is hereby established an Electrical Commission, which shall consist of
five (5) members. The chief electrical inspector of the Village shall be a
member and ex officio Chairman of the commission. Of the other four (4)
members, one shall be an electrical contractor, one a journeyman electrician,
one a representative of an inspection bureau maintained by the fire
underwriters (if such a person resides in the Village) and if no such
representative resides in the Village then the Chief of the Fire Department,
and one a representative of an electricity supply company. If there is no
person residing in the Village who is qualified under any one of these
descriptions, the President of the Village may appoint some other person to
fill that position. All members of the Electrical Commission shall be appointed
by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-7-5: DUTIES OF THE ELECTRICAL COMMISSION:
The Electrical Commission shall recommend:
   (A)   Safe and practical standards and specifications for the installation,
alteration, and use of electrical equipment designed to meet the necessities
and conditions prevailing in this Village.
   (B)   Reasonable rules and regulations governing the issuance of permits by
the Electrical Inspection Department.
   (C)   Reasonable fees to be paid for the inspection by the Inspection
Department of all electrical equipment installed or altered within this
Village.
The standards, specifications, rules, regulations, and fees so recommended
shall not become effective until adopted by ordinances approved by the
President and Board of Trustees of this Village. All fees so adopted shall be
paid into the Village Treasury. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-7-6: PENALTIES:
Any willful failure or refusal to comply with the provisions of this Code
constitutes a petty offense punishable upon conviction by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day that a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-7-7: ADDITIONS:
Irrespective of any language in the code hereby adopted to the contrary, the
following regulations shall be applicable:
   (A)   Commercial or industrial services shall be installed in rigid
galvanized metal conduit, intermediate galvanized metal conduit or by materials
designed for the installation. Rigid aluminum conduit may be approved. Service
equipment size shall be determined by the projected load. Derating of service
conductors is not allowed.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial service equipment shall be a minimum of 100
amperes with no less than twenty-four (24) available circuits; switchboards and
panel boards shall be of copper construction designed for use with bolt-on
circuit breakers only; stab-in breakers or panels designed for use with a
combination of stab-in and bolt-on circuit breakers are not permitted.
   (C)   Main disconnects (circuit breakers) shall be provided in all panels
installed for remodeling, replacement or new construction; all sources of power
must be able to be turned off at the panel location.
   (D)   A minimum of 100 ampere service shall be provided for all single-
family residences.
   (E)   All receptacle outlets within six feet (6') from a water faucet shall
be protected by an approved ground fault circuit- interrupter.
   (F)   The 2014 National Electrical Code shall be further amended as follows:
Article 110-5 Conductors. Delete in its entirety and add in its place the
following:
All conductors that may be used to carry current at any time shall be copper
conductors. References to the use of any other material elsewhere in this code
are hereby deleted.
Article 310.1 Scope. Add to the end of the Article the following:
All electrical conductors shall be copper conductors. References to the use of
any other material elsewhere in this code are hereby deleted.
Article 320 Armored Cable: Type AC. Delete in its entirety.
Article 324 Flat Conductor Cable: Type FCC. Delete in its entirety.
Article 326 Integrated Gas Spacer Cable: Type IGS. Delete in its entirety.
Article 330.10 Uses Permitted. Delete in its entirety and add in its place the
following:
Type MC Cable shall be permitted only as prefabricated lengths for lighting
control and signal circuits within dry interior locations. Such prefabricated
lengths shall not be field-altered.
Article 332 Mineral Insulated, Metal Sheathed Cable: Type MI. Delete in its
entirety.
Article 362 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing: Type ENT. Delete in its entirety.
Article 394 Concealed Knob-and-Tube Wiring. Delete in its entirety.
Article 398 Open Wiring on Insulators. Delete in its entirety.
Article 720.11 Mechanical Execution of Work. Add to the end of the Article the
following:
All low-voltage wiring systems (less than 50 volts) installed in concealed or
inaccessible locations, including walls and hard ceilings, installed less than
8'-0" above the finished floor or installed in a way as to be subject to
physical damage shall be installed in an approved metallic raceway.
Article 725.24 Mechanical Execution of Work. Add to the end of the Article the
following:
All Class 1, Class 2 and Class 3 circuits installed in concealed locations,
including walls and hard ceilings, installed less than 8'-0" above the finished
floor or installed in a way as to be subject to physical damage shall be
installed in an approved metallic raceway.
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
7-7-8: INSPECTION FEES:
The fees to be paid for all electrical inspections shall be in accordance with
the following schedule:
 
Electrical services:
 0 to 100 amperes     $40.00
 101 to 200 amperes   50.00
 201 to 400 amperes   65.00
 401 to 600 amperes   75.00
 601 to 1,000 amperes 100.00
 
Fees for services in excess of one thousand (1,000) amperes shall be computed
on the basis of the rating of the service disconnects installed, prorated
according to the schedule above and shall include feeders, risers and all
wiring and equipment up to the branch circuit distribution panels or motor
power panels or control centers. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
Branch circuits:
 As indicated in section
 1-27-1 of this Code
Motors:
 As indicated in section
 1-27-1 of this Code
Miscellaneous:
 Minimum fee                                     $40.00
 Reinspection                                    50.00
 New outlets on existing circuits (each)         See section
                                                 1-27-1 of this Code
 Low voltage systems                             See section
                                                 1-27-1 of this Code
 Plan examination                                $25.00
 Overtime (per hour after normal business hours) 80.00
 
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017; amd. Ord. 2017-18, 11-16-2017)
CHAPTER 8
MULTIPLE DWELLINGS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Lighting
7-8-2: Parking
7-8-2.1:Parking Restriction
7-8-2.2:Parking Lighting Requirement
7-8-3: Garbage, Refuse, Yard Waste And Recyclables
7-8-3.1:Containers
7-8-1: LIGHTING:
The vestibule, hall, corridors, stairways and all other means of ingress into
and egress from buildings designed or modified for the use and occupancy of
more than two (2) families shall be adequately and properly lighted by
electricity between the hours of sunset and sunrise, and shall also be lighted
at all other times where the intensity of natural light is insufficient to
provide adequate lighting. (3-15-56)
7-8-2: PARKING:
The plans for every building hereafter erected or modified for the use and
occupancy of two (2) or more families, shall include, on the same lot, parking
facilities for at least one and one-half (11/2) automobiles per dwelling unit,
in accordance with the specifications provided in Section 6-3.5-5 of this Code,
and in addition, sufficient means of ingress and egress, so that each
automobile may enter and leave the parking area without in any way affecting or
interfering with any other automobile in the parking area. (Ord. 1966-5, 3-3-
1966)
7-8-2.1: PARKING RESTRICTION:
No parking facilities required herein shall be located within two feet (2') of
the side or rear lot lines. (Ord. 1968-1, 1968)
7-8-2.2: PARKING LIGHTING REQUIREMENT:
Every parking area as described in this Chapter shall be illuminated from the
time of dusk until the time of dawn throughout the year. Furthermore the
minimum lighting required for one to six (6) parking places shall be 150 watts
and not more than 600 watts unless approved by the Village Building Department.
(Ord. 1994-02, 3-3-1994 1 )
 
Notes
  1. Ordinance 1994-02 shall take effect 30 days after its passage and shall
1 provide a period of 90 days from date of passage for affected parking areas
  that do not currently have the capability to illuminate the parking areas.
7-8-3: GARBAGE, REFUSE, YARD WASTE AND RECYCLABLES:
It is the duty of every owner, agent, manager, tenant or occupant of all
buildings provided for in this Chapter, to make provision for the collection
and disposal of the following items from such building by private scavenger:
   (A)   Garbage and refuse.
   (B)   Lawn waste and "recyclables", as defined in Title IV, Chapter 15 of
this Code. (Ord. 1998-10, 10-15-1998)
7-8-3.1: CONTAINERS:
All containers for the deposit of garbage, refuse, yard waste and recyclables
shall be located in the rear yard area only. (Ord. 1998-10, 10-15-1998)
CHAPTER 9
HEATING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Rental Units
7-9-3: Stores And Offices
7-9-4: Central Heating Systems
7-9-5: Temperature Readings
7-9-6: Notice Of Complaint
7-9-7: Exceptions
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
DWELLING UNIT: A room or suite of rooms designed or used for living purposes,
including, but not limited to, a room for sleeping accommodations, apartments,
hotel or motel rooms.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, corporation, partnership or association.
(1962 Code)
7-9-2: RENTAL UNITS:
It is the duty of every person owning or controlling any apartment house,
rooming house, motel or other structure providing lodging or dwelling
facilities in which heat is furnished from a heating plant used in common for
the purpose of heating the various dwelling units and rooms thereof and such
heating plant is under the supervision or control of such owner or person
having control of such building, to furnish heat to such dwelling units and
rooms thereof from September 15 of each year to June 1 of the next succeeding
year so that the occupants thereof may secure without such undue restriction of
ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary condition, a minimum
Fahrenheit temperature averaged throughout all rooms of the dwelling unit of
sixty five degrees (65°) between the hours of six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. to
seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M.; sixty eight degrees (68°) between the hours
of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. to ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M., and
sixty three degrees (63°) between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M.
and six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M., all time being local time. (Ord. 2014-01,
1-16-2014)
7-9-3: STORES AND OFFICES:
It is the duty of every person owning or controlling the heating plant which
furnishes heat to any office, store or other place of employment to maintain a
temperature therein of not less than sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F)
without undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary
conditions from September 15 of each year to June 1 of the next succeeding year
during the customary hours of such business. (1962 Code)
7-9-4: CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEMS:
All premises described in sections
7-9-2 and
7-9-3 of this chapter wherein heat is not furnished from a heating plant used
in common or under the control of such owner or person having control of such
building, shall be provided with heating appliances and equipment capable of
maintaining therein a minimum temperature of sixty five degrees Fahrenheit
(65°F) when the outside temperature is ten degrees below zero Fahrenheit (-
10°F), unless such premises is rented as unheated. (1962 Code)
7-9-5: TEMPERATURE READINGS:
For the purpose of determining whether or not the temperature in any premises
is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the building commissioner
shall cause temperature readings to be taken by means of a standard Fahrenheit
thermometer in not less than two (2) separate rooms in each dwelling unit, or
if such dwelling unit consists of only one room, then in two (2) opposite parts
of the room as near the extremes as practicable. Such thermometer shall be
placed at a point not less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') away
from any door or window. (1962 Code)
7-9-6: NOTICE OF COMPLAINT:
Written notice of complaint concerning lack of heat shall first be given to the
person whose duty it is to supply heat, by personal service, registered or
certified mail before a violation of this chapter shall be deemed to exist.
(1962 Code)
7-9-7: EXCEPTIONS:
Failure to furnish heat as required herein shall not constitute an offense
where it is due to a breakdown of the heating plant, if diligence is used to
have such plant repaired; nor where it is due to strikes, a general shortage of
fuel, any act of the tenant who makes the complaint, or to any cause beyond the
control of the one whose duty it is to supply such heat. (1962 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
7-10-1: General Contractor Defined
7-10-2: License; Application
7-10-3: License Fee
7-10-4: Work To Be Done By Licensed Contractor
7-10-1: GENERAL CONTRACTOR DEFINED:
Every person engaged in constructing, erecting, enlarging, altering, repairing
or removing any building or buildings, or any person who individually or by his
agents, directs, supervises or in any manner controls the erection,
enlargement, alteration, repair or removal of any building or buildings for
which permits are required by the provisions of this code, shall be deemed to
be a general contractor. (Chapter XVIII, Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-10-2: LICENSE; APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to engage in the business of general contracting shall make
a written application for a license to engage in such business as general
contractor, which said application shall state the name and address of such
person, if an individual; the name and address of each officer and director, if
a corporation, and shall also state whether or not said person has ever been
licensed by any municipality within the state of Illinois, and if so, whether
or not said license has ever been revoked or suspended; whether or not the
applicant is of good moral character and reputation; the number of years
experience as a general contractor; whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted of violating any laws of any municipality with reference to
constructing, altering and repairing buildings; whether the applicant has ever
been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor, and if so, the crime, date of
conviction and the court in which said conviction was had; and that the
applicant, if a person, and if a copartnership, at least one member of said
copartnership, and if a corporation, at least one officer, is familiar with the
provisions of this code relating to the constructing, altering and repairing of
buildings which said application shall be verified under the oath of the person
making the same. (Chapter XVIII. Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-10-3: LICENSE FEE:
Effective January 1, 2026, the annual fee for a general contractor's license
shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Every such license shall expire
on December 31 following the date of its issuance. The license fee shall not be
prorated regardless of the date of application or issuance of the license.
(Ord. 2003-01, 3-20-2003; amd. Ord. 2025-16, 4-7-2025)
7-10-4: WORK TO BE DONE BY LICENSED CONTRACTOR:
No person, shall engage in nor do any erecting, enlarging, altering, repairing
or removing any building or buildings or appurtenances thereto for which
permits are required unless he is a duly licensed general contractor of said
village; provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent any contractor from doing any work upon any building or buildings where
he has heretofore been licensed by said village to perform such work authorized
by said license; provided, however, that he does not work or supervise any work
which does not and cannot be properly performed under any license held by such
contractor. (Chapter XVIII, Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 11
BUILDING CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
7-11-1: License Required
7-11-2: Application For License
7-11-3: Investigation
7-11-4: Approval
7-11-5: License Fee
7-11-6: Inspection Of Work
7-11-7: House Movers
7-11-8: Revocation Of License
7-11-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Effective January 1, 2026, no person shall conduct, manage, operate or carry on
the business of contractor of carpentry work, contractor of masonry work,
contractor of cement work, contractor of plastering and lathing, contractor of
roofing, contractor of sewer work, contractor of house moving, contractor of
electrical work, contractor of wrecking or demolition, contractor of plumbing,
steam and gas fitting, contractor for heating,ventilation and/or air
conditioning, contractor of dumpster or waste disposal, contractor of arborist
or tree care, or engage in the construction, erection, finishing, repair,
wrecking, demolition or alterations of buildings or other structures without
obtaining a license as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-20-2003; amd.
Ord. 2025-16, 4-7-2025)
7-11-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license to carry on the business of any building
contractor as described in section
7-11-1 of this chapter, or engage in the construction, erection, finishing,
repair, wrecking or alteration of buildings or dwellings, shall make written
application to the clerk, stating in such application the name and residence of
the applicant, if an individual and the officials if a corporation, and place
of business and the kind of contracting business proposed to be carried on by
said applicant, and the experience which said applicant has had in said
business. (Chapter XVIII, Rev. Ord. 1939; amd. Ord. 2025-16, 4-7-2025)
7-11-3: INVESTIGATION:
The clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of the statements in such
application, as to whether the applicant has the necessary equipment and
experience to engage in the proposed business. (Chapter XVIII, Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-11-4: APPROVAL:
Upon the filing and approval of such application, and upon the payment of the
license fee hereinafter fixed, to the clerk, the president and clerk shall
issue or cause to be issued to the applicant, a license. (Chapter XVIII, Rev.
Ord. 1939)
7-11-5: LICENSE FEE:
Effective January 1, 2026, each of the contracting businesses hereinbefore
mentioned, shall be and is considered a separate business, each requiring a
separate license for the conduct thereof. The annual fee for each building
contractor's license shall be one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00). Every
individual business contractor license shall expire on December 31 following
the date of its issuance, and no license shall be issued for a less sum than
the full annual license fee. The license fee shall not be prorated regardless
of the date of application or issuance of the license. (Ord. 2003-01, 3-20-
2003; amd. Ord. 2025-16, 4-7-2025)
7-11-6: INSPECTION OF WORK:
Any person securing a license under the provisions of this chapter shall
perform his work in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and shall be
subject to such inspection during the performance of the work as shall be
deemed necessary by the president and board of trustees or the building
commissioner or a designee, and the building inspector shall have the right to
enter at all times during business hours for the purpose of inspecting any work
being performed. (Chapter XVIII, Rev. Ord. 1939; amd. Ord. 2025-16, 4-7-2025)
7-11-7: HOUSE MOVERS:
Any licenses issued hereunder are subject to the provisions of this code
relating to building construction work and house movers, and in case of house
movers, no license shall be issued until a special permit shall be issued by
the president and board of trustees in compliance with any regulation relating
to house movers which may be in force and effect at the time of issuance of
such permit. (Chapter XVIII, Rev. Ord. 1939)
7-11-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If at any time, after the granting of such license, the president and the board
of trustees or building commissioner shall find that any licensee hereunder has
failed to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter, or of any
provision of this code, such license may be revoked by the president and board
of trustees. (Chapter XVIII, Rev. Ord. 1939; amd. Ord. 2025-16, 4-7-2025)
CHAPTER 12
HOUSE MOVERS
SECTION:
7-12-1: House Movers to be Licensed
7-12-2: Application and Bond
7-12-3: Fees
7-12-4: Lights on Building
7-12-1: HOUSE MOVERS TO BE LICENSED:
No person except a licensed house mover shall move any house, barn or other
building over, across or along any street or alley, and every person shall
annually, before engaging in such occupation, obtain a license therefor from
the Board of Trustees, and no such license shall be granted until the party
applying therefor shall have given a bond in the sum of five hundred dollars,
($500.00) with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by said Board of
Trustees, conditioned among other things that said party will pay any and all
damages which may happen to any trees, pavement or sidewalk, or any other
property belonging to the Village, whether said damage shall be inflicted by
said party or his agents, employees or workmen; and conditioned also that said
party will immediately pay any judgment that may be obtained against the said
Village, as well as any costs the said Village may incur in consequence of the
granting of such license, and all the acts done thereunder, and will, in all
things, strictly comply with the conditions of his permit. (Ch. XX; Rev. Ord.
1939)
7-12-2: APPLICATION AND BOND:
The license herein provided for shall be issued upon written application, and a
payment of a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00), and a satisfactory bond.
Before moving any building, a license must be issued in advance in each and
every instance before moving any building. (12-21-44)
7-12-3: FEES:
The said licensed person shall, in each and every instance, before moving any
building, obtain a written permit to do so from the Clerk, and shall pay to
said Clerk a fee therefor of twenty dollars ($20.00); thereupon said Clerk
shall issue a permit stating specifically the conditions prescribing the route
to be taken and limiting the time for the removal.
Provided, however, that no permit shall be issued except the same complies with
the Building Code relating to the removal of buildings.
7-12-4: LIGHTS ON BUILDING:
Every house mover while using any portion of the street or sidewalk shall cause
at least one red light to be placed in a conspicuous place in front and one in
the rear of any building or other obstruction placed in the street by him, from
sunset of each night. He shall also leave all streets and alleys over which he
has moved any building in as good condition as they were before being so used
by him, and shall strictly comply with the terms of his permit. (Ch. XX; Rev.
Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 13
LUMBER YARDS
SECTION:
7-13-1: License Required
7-13-2: Fire Limits
7-13-3: Fire Apparatus
7-13-4: Piling Lumber
7-13-5: Inspections
7-13-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall establish, conduct or maintain a lumber yard in this Village
without having obtained a license. Applications for such licenses shall be made
to the Clerk in writing, and shall state the location and size of the lumber
yard intended. The annual fee for a lumber yard shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
and no license shall be issued without the payment of this fee.
7-13-2: FIRE LIMITS:
No lumber yard shall be established or licensed within the Fire Limits; but
this Section shall not be construed to require the removal of any lumber yard
which is already located and established.
7-13-3: FIRE APPARATUS:
It shall be the duty of every person, owning or operating a lumber yard to have
the same equipped with sufficient fire apparatus to handle any small fires
which may start and prevent their spreading.
7-13-4: PILING LUMBER:
It shall be unlawful to pile any lumber in a lumber yard in such a way that the
lumber is hanging over or in danger of falling upon any adjoining property,
street, alley or public way.
7-13-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to inspect every lumber yard
established in the Village or to cause such inspections to be made, at least
once every six (6) months to insure compliance with this Chapter. (Ch. XXXIX;
Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 14
COAL YARDS
SECTION:
7-14-1: License Required
7-14-2: Fire Limits
7-14-3: Piling Coal
7-14-4: Inspections
7-14-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall maintain or operate a coal yard except upon full compliance
with all the provisions of this Chapter and of any other provisions of this
Code relating thereto, and after securing the license therefor. The annual
license fee for a coal yard shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and no
license shall be issued except upon payment of the fee.
7-14-2: FIRE LIMITS:
No coal yard shall hereafter be established within the Fire Limits.
7-14-3: PILING COAL:
It shall be unlawful to pile any coal in such a way that it can fall down upon
adjoining property or any street, sidewalk, alley or any public way, or so as
to endanger any persons or property upon such street, alley, sidewalk or public
way.
7-14-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to cause inspections to be made of
every coal yard in the Village to insure the enforcement of the provisions of
this Chapter. (Ch. XXXIX; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 15
OIL AND PAINT DEALERS
SECTION:
7-15-1: License Required
7-15-2: Fee
7-15-3: Condition of Premises
7-15-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate as a retail dealer, wholesale dealer or manufacturer of
paints, oils or other inflammable liquids, without being licensed therefor,
however this Section shall not be construed as requiring an additional license
for any person licensed to operate a gasoline filling station or to conduct the
business of wholesale dealer in petroleum or its products.
7-15-2: FEE:
   (A)   The annual fee for such licenses shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for
retail dealer, and no license shall be issued except upon the payment of the
fee.
   (B)   The annual license fee for a manufacturer or wholesaler shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00), and no license shall be issued except upon payment of the
fee.
7-15-3: CONDITION OF PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful to permit any accumulation of inflammable waste material
in any premises used for a paint or oil establishment; and no open flame or
fire shall be permitted in any such establishment; and it shall be the duty of
the Fire Department to inspect or cause to be inspected every place licensed
under the provisions of this Chapter, to insure compliance with these
provisions. (Ch. XXXIX; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 16
BUILDING MATERIAL YARDS
SECTION:
7-16-1: License Required
7-16-2: Fire Limits
7-16-3: Fire Apparatus
7-16-4: Piling Building Material
7-16-5: Inspections
7-16-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall establish, conduct or maintain a Building Material yard without
having obtained a license as required in this Chapter. Applications for such
licenses shall be made to the Clerk in writing, and shall state the location
and size of the Building Material Yard intended. The annual license fee for a
Building Material Yard shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) and no license shall be
issued without the payment of this fee. (11-20-47)
7-16-2: FIRE LIMITS:
No building material yard shall be established or licensed within the Fire
Limits; however this Chapter shall not be construed to require the removal of
any Building Material Yard which is already located and established.
7-16-3: FIRE APPARATUS:
It shall be the duty of every person owning or operating a Building Material
Yard to have the same equipped with sufficient fire apparatus to handle any
small fire which may start and prevent its spreading.
7-16-4: PILING BUILDING MATERIAL:
It shall be unlawful to pile any Building Material in a building material yard
in such a way that the building material is hanging over or in danger of
falling upon any adjoining property, street, alley or public way.
7-16-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to inspect every building material
yard established in the Village, or to cause inspections to be made at least
once every six (6) months to insure compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ch. XXXIX; Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 17
SIGN AND ADVERTISING STRUCTURE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-17-1: Short Title
7-17-2: Definitions
Article I. General Regulations
7-17-3: Permits Required
7-17-4: Application For Erection Permit
7-17-5: Illuminated Signs
7-17-5.1: Lighting Restrictions
7-17-5.2: Shade Requirements
7-17-6: Permit Issued if Application in Order
7-17-7: Permit Fees
7-17-8: Annual Inspection Permit; Fees
7-17-9: Permit Revocable at Any Time
7-17-10: Unsafe and Unlawful Signs
7-17-11: Date of Erection, Name of Permittee, and Voltage to be on Sign
7-17-12: Painting Required Every Two Years
7-17-13: Wind Pressure and Dead Load Requirements
7-17-14: Removal of Certain Signs
7-17-15: Exemptions
7-17-16: Bond Requirements
7-17-17: Obstruction to Doors, Windows or Fire Escapes
7-17-18: Signs Not to Constitute Traffic Hazards
7-17-19: Face of Sign Shall be Smooth
7-17-20: Reflectors, Spotlights and Floodlights; Limitation; Prohibition
7-17-21: Glass; Limitations
7-17-22: Miscellaneous Advertising Objects Prohibited
7-17-23: Obscene Matter Prohibited
Article II. Ground Signs
7-17-24: Definition
7-17-25: Construction
7-17-26: Location
7-17-27: Erection
7-17-28: Premises to be Kept Free of Weeds
Article III. Wall Signs
7-17-29: Definitions
7-17-30: Construction
7-17-31: Location
7-17-32: Erection
Article IV. Roof Signs
7-17-33: Definition
7-17-34: Construction
7-17-35: Location
7-17-36: Erection
Article V. Projecting Signs
7-17-37: Definitions
7-17-38: Construction
7-17-39: Location
7-17-40: Erection
7-17-41: V-Shaped Signs Prohibited
Article VI. Temporary Signs
7-17-42: Definition
7-17-43: Construction
7-17-44: Location
7-17-45: Erection
7-17-46: Duration of Permits
7-17-47: Advertising Permitted
7-17-48: Bond or Insurance Requirements
Article VII. Marquees
7-17-49: Definition
7-17-50: Construction
7-17-51: Location
7-17-52: Erection
7-17-53: Signs Attached to Marquee
7-17-54: Bond or Insurance Requirements
7-17-54.1: Marquees Prohibited
Article VIII. Street Clocks
7-17-55: Definition
7-17-56: Construction
7-17-57: Location
7-17-58: Advertising Permitted
7-17-59: Bond or Insurance Requirements
Article IX. Zoning Restrictions
7-17-60: Zoning Restrictions
7-17-60.1Street Clocks Prohibited
Article X. Legal Nonconforming Signs and Structures
7-16-61: Legal Nonconforming Signs and Structures
7-17-61.1: Qualification
7-17-61.2: Authorization Schedule
7-17-61.3: Loss of Status
7-17-61.4: Continuing Obligation
Article XI. Revocation of Permits
7-17-62: Revocation of Permits
7-17-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall hereafter be known and cited as "Sign and Advertising
Structure Regulations". (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
7-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words, groups of words or terms shall
have the meaning respectively ascribed to them, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise. Definitions found elsewhere in this Code are superseded
for the purpose of this Chapter. (Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
APPROVED COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS: Any material more than one-twentieth of an inch
(1/20") in thickness, which burns at a rate of not more than two and one-half
inches (2 1/2"), per minute when subjected to the A.S.T.M. (American Society
for Testing Materials) standard test for flammability in sheets of six-
hundredths inch (0.06") thickness.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix, and shall
also include the painting of all signs.
FACING or SURFACE: The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the
message is displayed or illustrated on the sign. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
FLASHING SIGN: A directly or indirectly illuminated sign where the source of
illumination is not maintained constant or stationary in the intensity or color
at all times when such sign is in use. For the purpose of this Chapter, a
revolving sign, or any advertising device which attracts attention by moving
parts operated by mechanical equipment or movement caused by natural sources,
whether illuminated, indirectly or not, shall be considered a flashing sign.
(Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
GROSS SURFACE AREA OF SIGN: The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing
through or between any adjacent elements of same. However, such perimeter shall
not include any structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and
not forming an integral part of the display.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs, or
outline illuminated by electric lights, luminous tubes, or another means of
illumination.
INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees (1,200o) Fahrenheit and will
not continue to burn or glow at that temperature. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
OTHER ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: Shall mean marquee, street clock or structure,
other than a sign, used for advertising purposes. (Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
PERSON: Shall include any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company, or organization of any kind.
SIGN: Every name, identification, description, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, flag, illustration, or insignia and structure
supporting any of the same, affixed directly or indirectly to or upon any
building or outdoor structure, or erected or maintained upon a piece of land,
which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, person,
institution, organization, or business.
Each display surface of a sign shall be considered to be a separate sign.
The term "sign" shall include, among other structures, and whether illuminated
or nonilluminated, every ground sign, wall sign, roof sign, projecting sign,
and temporary sign.
However, the term "sign" shall not include any display of official court, or
public office notices nor shall it include the flag, emblem, or insignia of a
nation, governmental unit, school, or religious group.
STRUCTURAL TRIM: Any molding, battens, cappings, nailing strips, latticing, and
platforms which are attached to the sign structure. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
ARTICLE I. General Regulations
7-17-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter, relocate, or maintain
within the Village of River Grove, any sign, or other advertising structure, as
defined in this Chapter, without first obtaining an erection permit or annual
inspection permit from the Electrical Inspector and making payment of the fee
required by Section 7-17-7 or 7-17-8 hereof. All illuminated signs shall, in
addition, be subject to the provisions of the Electrical Code, and the permit
fees required thereunder.
7-17-4: APPLICATION FOR ERECTION PERMIT:
Application for erection permit shall be made upon blanks provided by the
Electrical Inspector and shall contain or have attached thereto the following
information: (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   (B)   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.
   (C)   Position of the sign or advertising structure, as defined in this
Chapter, in relation to nearby buildings or structures. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-
65)
   (D)   Two (2) blueprints or ink drawings of the plans and specifications and
method of construction and attachment to the building, other structure or
ground, provided that if the size of the sign exceeds one hundred (100) square
feet, a structural engineer's stamp of approval may be required. (Ord. 1988-13,
9-1-88)
   (E)   If required by the Building Commissioner, a copy of stress sheets and
calculations showing that the structure is designed for dead load and wind
pressure in any direction in the amount required by this and all other laws and
ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
   (F)   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting the sign or
other advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter, is to be erected.
   (G)   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure, or land to
which or on which the sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this
Chapter, is to be erected.
   (H)   Any electrical permit required and issued for said sign or other
advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter.
   (I)   Insurance policy or bond as required by Section 7-17-16 of this
Chapter. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
   (J)   Such other information as may be required to show full compliance with
this and all other ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
7-17-5: ILLUMINATED SIGNS:
Approved by Electrical Inspector. The application for a permit for erection of
a sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter, in which
electrical wiring and connections are to be used, shall be submitted to the
Electrical Inspector. The Electrical Inspector shall examine the plans and
specifications, respecting all wiring and connections, to determine if the same
complies with the Electrical Code of the Village of River Grove, and he shall
approve the issuance of said permit if the said plans and specifications comply
with said Code, or disapprove the application if noncompliance with said Code
is found. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
7-17-5.1: LIGHTING RESTRICTIONS:
Illuminated sign shall not have any flashing, scintillating, traveling or
blinking lights or rotating beacons, nor shall any beam of light be projected
through a mechanism which periodically changes the color of the light reaching
the sign. A sign on which the current time or temperature or both, is indicated
by intermittent lighting changes shall not be deemed to be a flashing sign if
the lights do not exceed forty (40) watts per lamp, the changes are limited to
the numerals indicating the time or temperature, and the sign is in conformance
with the other regulations for such signs in this Chapter. Message center signs
are permitted when in conjunction with the time and temperature signs.
7-17-5.2: SHADE REQUIREMENTS:
Signs shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting bright light upon
property located in any residential district or upon any public street or park.
(Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
7-17-6: PERMIT ISSUED IF APPLICATION IN ORDER:
It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector or his duly authorized deputy,
upon the filing of an application for an erection permit to examine such plans,
specifications, and other data, and the premises upon which it is proposed to
erect the sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter, and
if it shall appear that the proposed structure is in compliance with all the
requirements of this Chapter, the Zoning Title, and all other applicable
ordinances of the Village, and that the appropriate permit fee has been paid,
he shall then issue the erection permit. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord.
1988-13, 9-1-88)
If the work authorized under an erection permit has not been completed within
six (6) months after date of issuance, the said permit shall become null and
void.
7-17-7: PERMIT FEES:
The fee to be charged for permits issued for the erection, construction, or
alteration of any sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this
Chapter shall be as follows: (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
 
(A)  Nonilluminated Signs: (unless temporary) plus fifty cents ($0.50)   $20.00
     per square foot of gross surface area of each face thereof.
     Temporary Signs:
(B)  (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1979-4, 3-1-79; Ord. 1988-13, 9- 15.00
     1-88)
(C)  Marquees: (Rep. by Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
     Illuminated Signs And Street Clocks:
     plus fifty cents ($0.50) per square foot
(D)  of gross surface area of each face thereof.                         25.00
     (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65, amd. Ord. 1979-4, 3-1-79; Ord. 1988-13, 9-
     1-88)
 
7-17-8: ANNUAL INSPECTION PERMIT; FEES:
The Inspector shall inspect annually, and at such other times as he deems
necessary, each sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this
Chapter, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the same is secure or
insecure, and whether it is in need of removal or repair; and to meet the
expense of such inspection, the permittee thereof shall pay to the Village
Treasurer an annual fee, and receive an annual inspection permit. Any person,
firm or corporation owning, in possession, charge or control of any sign or
other advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter, now in existence or
hereafter erected shall pay the following annual inspection fees. (Ord. 1965-
32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
 
    Nonilluminated Signs:
(A) plus fifty cents ($0.50) per square foot                         $20.00
    of surface area of each face thereof.
    Marquees:
(B) plus fifty cents ($0.50) per square foot                         25.00
    of plan area.
    Illuminated Signs and Street Clocks:
(C) plus fifty cents ($0.50) per square foot of surface area of each 25.00
    face thereof. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1979-4, 3-1-79;
    Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
 
No inspection fee other than the permit fee as required in Section 7-17-7 shall
be charged during the calendar year in which the sign or other advertising
structure, as defined in this Chapter is erected.
7-17-9: PERMIT REVOCABLE AT ANY TIME:
   (A)   All rights and privileges acquired under the provisions of this
Chapter, or any amendment thereto, are mere licenses revocable at any time by
the Board of Trustees, and all such permits shall be subject to this provision,
Except as otherwise provided, all permits issued hereunder, if not revoked by
the Board of Trustees for cause, shall be valid until May 1 following date of
issue.
   (B)   Upon the termination or revocation of the permit the licensee shall
remove the sign or other advertising structure without cost or expense of any
kind to the Village; provided, in the event of the failure, neglect or refusal
on the part of the licensee to do so, the Village may proceed to remove the
same and charge the expense to the licensee. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
7-17-10: UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS:
If a Code Inspector shall find that any sign or other advertising structure, as
defined herein, is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has
been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the
provisions of this Chapter, the Village Clerk shall immediately be advised of
such condition and he shall give written notice to the permittee thereof. If
permittee fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the
standards herein set forth, within twenty (20) days after such notice, such
sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter, may be removed
by order of the corporate authorities at the expense of the permittee or the
owner of the property upon which it is located. The corporate authorities may
cause any other sign or other advertising structure which is an immediate peril
to persons or property to be removed summarily and without notice. (Ord. 1988-
13, 9-1-88)
7-17-11: DATE OF ERECTION, NAME OF PERMITTEE, AND VOLTAGE TO BE ON SIGN:
Every sign or advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter, hereafter
erected shall have painted in a conspicuous place thereon, in legible letters,
the date of erection, the name of the permittee, and the voltage of any
electrical apparatus used in connection therewith.
7-17-12: PAINTING REQUIRED EVERY TWO YEARS:
The permittee of any sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this
Chapter, shall at least once every two (2) years, paint all parts and supports
of said sign or other advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter, unless
the same are galvanized or otherwise treated to prevent rust or rotting.
7-17-13: WIND PRESSURE AND DEAD LOAD REQUIREMENTS:
Any signs or other advertising structures, as defined in this Chapter, shall be
designed and constructed to withstand a wind pressure of not less than thirty
(30) pounds per square foot of net surface area; and shall be constructed to
receive dead loads as required in the Building Code 1 or other ordinances of
the Village. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title VII, Chapter 1 of this Code.
7-17-14: REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS:
Any sign, or other advertising structure, as defined in this Chapter, now or
hereafter existing, which advertises a business no longer being conducted, or a
product no longer being sold, shall be taken down and removed by the owner,
agent and person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or
premises upon which such sign may be found within twenty (20) days after
written notification from the Electrical Inspector and, upon failure to comply
with such notice within the time specified in such order, the corporate
authorities are hereby authorized to cause removal of such sign and any expense
incident thereto shall be paid by the owner, agent or person having beneficial
use of the building structure or premises to which such sign is attached. (Ord.
1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
7-17-15: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions and regulations of this Chapter shall not apply to the following
signs, provided however, said signs shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 7-17-10.
   (A)   Real estate signs not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental, lease or management of the premises upon which said
signs are located.
   (B)   Occupational signs denoting only the name and profession of an
occupant in a commercial building, public institutional building or dwelling
house, and not exceeding one square foot in area.
   (C)   Signs painted on the exterior surface of a building or structure,
provided however, if said signs have raised borders, letters, characters,
decorations or lighting appliance, they shall be subject to the provisions of
Article III and all applicable provisions of this Chapter.
   (D)   Bulletin boards not over twelve (12) square feet in area for public,
charitable or religious institutions when the same are located on the premises
of said institutions.
   (E)   Construction Site Signs: Signs denoting the architect, engineer, or
contractor when placed upon work under construction, and not exceeding sixteen
(16) square feet in area.
   (F)   Building Plaques: Signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of
erection when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or
other incombustible materials.
   (G)   Traffic And Government Signs: Traffic or other municipal signs, legal
notices, railroad crossing signs, danger, and such temporary emergency or
nonadvertising signs as may be approved by the board of trustees. (Ord. 1965-
32, 10-28-1965)
   (H)   Address Numerals: Address numerals and other signs required to be
maintained by law or governmental order, rule or regulation provided that the
content and size of the sign do not exceed the requirements of such law, order,
rule or regulation.
   (I)   Directional Signs: Nonelectrical signs, not exceeding four (4) square
feet in area, which provide instruction or direction and are located entirely
on the property to which they pertain to identify restrooms, public telephone,
walkways, parking lot entrances and exits and features of a similar nature.
(Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-1988)
   (J)   Holiday Decorations: Decorations, including signs, that are clearly
incidental, customary, and commonly associated with a national, local, or
religious holiday, may be displayed for a period of not more than ninety (90)
days during a calendar year, and may be of any type, number, area, height,
location, illumination or animation; provided, that no such holiday decoration
or sign shall be utilized for the purpose of advertising and unless
extraordinary weather or climatic conditions preclude reasonable installation
or removal of such a decoration, no such holiday decoration or sign shall be
displayed for more than thirty (30) days before a holiday nor more than sixty
(60) days after a holiday. Each day a property owner or occupant fails to
remove a holiday decoration in a timely manner shall constitute a separate
violation of this regulation. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to a penalty of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2007-14, 7-5-
2007)
   (K)   Warning Signs: No trespassing or no dumping signs, not exceeding one
and one-half (11/2) square feet per sign and not exceeding four (4) in number
per lot, except that special permission may be obtained from the administrator
for additional signs under proven special circumstances.
   (L)   Temporary Window Signs: Paper signs affixed to the inside of a window
and advertising temporary commercial situations related to goods or services
sold on the premises, provided that the total of all signs, including those
permanently mounted in that window, occupy no more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the window's area and no such temporary sign shall be in place longer
than thirty (30) days.
   (M)   Temporary Civic Signs: Temporary signs not exceeding four (4) square
feet in area pertaining to drives or events of civic, philanthropic, education
or religious organizations; provided, that said signs are posted not more than
thirty (30) days before said event and are removed not more than five (5) days
after the event.
   (N)   Special Displays: Special displays used for holidays, public
demonstrations or the promotion of civic welfare or charitable purposes
provided they are approved by the village board after submission of a written
application, they contain no noncharitable advertising, and they are removed by
the deadline established by the board in their approval.
   (O)   Garage Sale Signs: No more than two (2) temporary signs which
advertise a residential garage sale, provided that such signs do not exceed
four (4) square feet each, are located with no more than one sign per lot
frontage either on the premises containing the sale or on other private
property with that property's owner's or tenant's permission and are only in
place when the garage sale is actually taking place. (Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-1988)
7-17-16: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Every applicant for a permit referred to in this chapter shall, before the
permit is granted, file with the building commissioner a bond of twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00), executed by the applicant and with sureties
approved by the board of trustees conditioned on the faithful observance and
performance of each and every condition and provision of said permit and
conditioned further to indemnify, keep and save harmless the village against
all liabilities, judgments, costs, damages, and expenses which may in any way
come against the village as a consequence of granting the permit, or which may
accrue against, be charged to, or recovered from the village by reason of the
authority given in such permit. This bond shall be filed with the plans in the
office of the electrical inspector. The bond and the liability of the sureties
thereon shall be kept in force throughout the life of the permit, and if at any
time it shall not be in full force then the authority and privileges thereby
granted shall be terminated by the electrical inspector. A liability insurance
policy issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state of
Illinois conforming to this section may be permitted in lieu of a bond,
provided the limits of liability shall not be less than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for property damage and one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for public liability. A certificate of insurance under an
existing liability policy which meets the above requirements will be
sufficient, provided the policy will have as an additional insured, the village
and a certificate from the insurance company to that effect is filed with the
electrical inspector. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-1965; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-1988)
7-17-17: OBSTRUCTION TO DOORS, WINDOWS OR FIRE ESCAPES:
No "sign" or "other advertising structure" as defined in this chapter, shall be
erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free ingress to, or egress
from any door, window or fire escape. No "sign" or "other advertising
structure" as defined in this chapter, of any kind, shall be attached to a
standpipe or fire escape. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-1965)
7-17-18: SIGNS NOT TO CONSTITUTE TRAFFIC HAZARDS:
In order to obtain and secure reasonable traffic safety, it shall be unlawful
for any person to erect or maintain any fluttering, undulating, swinging,
rotating or otherwise moving sign, and flashing sign, or any moving or flashing
advertising structure. No sign or other advertising structure shall be erected
or maintained in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision or as to
distract the attention, of the driver of any vehicle by reason of the position,
shape, or color thereof.
Pursuant to the foregoing, no sign or advertising structure shall be erected or
maintained in such a manner as to be likely to interfere with, obstruct the
view of, or be confused with, any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
Accordingly, no sign or advertising structure, shall make use of the words
"Stop," "Go", "Look", "Slow", "Danger", or any other similar word phrase,
symbol, or character, or employ any red, yellow, orange, green, or other
colored lamp or light, in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or
confuse traffic.
7-17-19: FACE OF SIGN SHALL BE SMOOTH:
All signs or advertising structures, which are constructed on public
thoroughfares or within five feet (5') thereof, shall have no nails, tacks or
wires or other hazardous projections protruding therefrom except electrical
reflectors and devices which may extend over the top and in front of such
advertising structures.
7-17-20: REFLECTORS, SPOTLIGHTS AND FLOODLIGHTS; LIMITATION; PROHIBITION:
   (A)   Goose-Neck Reflectors. Goose-neck reflectors and lights shall be
permitted on ground signs, roof signs, and wall signs; provided, however, the
reflectors shall concentrate the illumination upon the area of the sign so as
to prevent glare upon the street or adjacent property.
   (B)   Spotlights and Floodlights Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to maintain any sign which extends over public property, and which is
wholly or partially illuminated by floodlights or spotlights unless such lights
are completely concealed from view from the street level.
7-17-21: GLASS; LIMITATIONS:
Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety glass. In case any single
piece or pane of glass has an area exceeding three (3) square feet, it shall be
wired glass. One section, not exceeding three (3) square feet in area,
constructed of wired glass or safety glass shall be permitted on each side of a
sign.
7-17-22: MISCELLANEOUS ADVERTISING OBJECTS PROHIBITED:
No person, firm, or corporation, shall place on, or suspend from any building
or structure, any goods, wares, merchandise or other advertising object or
structure, other than a sign as defined, regulated and prescribed by this
Chapter.
7-17-23: OBSCENE MATTER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to display upon any sign or other
advertising structure any obscene, indecent or immoral matter.
ARTICLE II. Ground Signs
7-17-24: DEFINITION:
Ground signs as regulated by this Chapter, shall include any sign or other
advertising structure, supported by uprights or braces placed upon the ground,
and not attached to any building. No ground sign as defined in this Section,
except those permitted under Section 7-17-15 of this Chapter, shall be erected
in any residential district, as defined in the present or any hereafter adopted
Zoning Ordinance. 1
 
Notes
1 1. See Title VI of this Code.
7-17-25: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Materials Required. All ground signs for which a permit is required
under this Chapter, shall have a surface or facing of incombustible or approved
combustible material; provided, however, that combustible structural trim may
be used thereon.
   (B)   Letters, etc., to be Secured. All letters, figures, characters, or
representations in cut-out or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with,
attached to, or superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built
or attached to the sign structure and shall comply with all requirements in
Section 7-17-19 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
7-17-26: LOCATION:
   (A)   Height Limitations: It shall be unlawful to erect any ground sign
whose total height is greater than twenty four feet six inches (24' 6") above
the level of the street upon which the sign faces, or above the adjoining
ground level, if such ground level is above the street level. (Ord. 1965-32,
10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
   (B)   Space Between Sign and Ground and Other Signs and Structures. Ground
signs shall have an open space not less than three feet (3') between the base
line of said sign and the ground level. Said open space shall not be filled in
with a platform or decorative lattice work. No ground sign shall be nearer than
six feet (6') to any other sign, building or structure than a back-to-back
sign. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
   (C)   Setback Line. No ground sign shall be nearer the street than the
building line established by the present or hereafter adopted Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
   (D)   Not to Mislead, Interfere With or Confuse Traffic. All ground signs
shall conform to the provisions of Section 7-17-18 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1965-
32, 10-28-65)
7-17-27: ERECTION:
   (A)   Bracing, Anchorage and Supports. All ground signs shall be securely
built, constructed, and erected upon posts and standards sunk at least three
feet (3') below the natural surface of the ground or in a manner approved by
the Building Commissioner. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
   (B)   Supports, etc., to be Creosoted. All posts, anchors, and bracing of
wood, shall be treated to protect them from moisture, by creosoting or other
approved methods, when they rest upon or enter into the ground.
   (C)   Wind Pressure, and Dead Load Requirements. All ground signs shall
conform to the requirements of Section 7-17-13 of this Chapter.
7-17-28: PREMISES TO BE KEPT FREE OF WEEDS, ETC.:
All ground signs and the premises surrounding the same shall be maintained by
the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition, and free and
clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
ARTICLE III. Wall Signs
7-17-29: DEFINITION:
Wall signs, as regulated by this Chapter, shall include all flat signs which
are placed flat against a building, or other structure and attached to the
exterior front, rear or side wall of any building, or other structure. No wall
sign as defined in this Section, except those permitted under Section 7-17-15
of this Chapter, shall be erected in residential district, as defined in the
present or hereafter adopted Zoning Ordinance.
7-17-30: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Materials Required. All wall signs for which a permit is required
under this Chapter shall have a surface or facing of incombustible or approved
combustible material.
7-17-31: LOCATION:
   (A)   Limitation on Placement and Area. No wall sign shall cover wholly or
partially any wall opening, nor project beyond the ends or top of the wall to
which it is attached, and any one wall sign shall not exceed an area of eighty
(80) square feet; provided, however, that panel poster wall sign, not
projecting over, suspended above or erected over any public thoroughfare, may
exceed eighty (80) square feet but shall not exceed three hundred (300) square
feet in area.
   (B)   Projection above Sidewalk and Set-Back Line. No wall sign shall be
permitted to extend more than twelve inches (12") beyond the face or structure
to which it is attached, and if attached to a wall or other structure so as to
be suspended above and facing a sidewalk or other public thoroughfare, such
wall sign shall be attached at a height of not less than ten feet (10') above
the sidewalk or public thoroughfare.
   (C)   Obstruction to Doors, Windows or Fire Escapes. No wall sign shall be
erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free ingress to or egress
from any door, window or fire escape.
7-17-32: ERECTION:
   (A)   Supports and Attachments. All wall signs of solid face construction
shall be safely and securely attached to the building wall by means of metal
anchors, bolts, or expansion screws of not less than three-eighths inch (3/8")
in diameter embedded in said wall at least five inches (5"); provided, however,
that such signs may rest in, or be bolted to strong, heavy metal brackets or
saddles set not over six feet (6') apart, each of which shall be securely fixed
to the wall as hereinbefore provided. In no case shall any wall sign be secured
with strips of wood or nails.
   (B)   Wind Pressure and Dead Load Requirements. All wall signs shall conform
to the requirements of Section 7-17-13 of this Chapter.
ARTICLE IV. Roof Signs
7-17-33: DEFINITION:
Roof sign as regulated by this Chapter shall mean any sign erected, constructed
and maintained upon or over the roof of any building with the principal support
on the roof structure. No roof sign, whether illuminated or not, as defined in
this Section, shall be erected in any residential district as defined in the
present or hereafter adopted Zoning Ordinance.
7-17-34: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Materials Required. Every roof sign, including the upright supports
and braces thereof, shall be constructed entirely of incombustible materials;
provided, however, that combustible structural trim may be used thereon.
7-17-35: LOCATION:
   (A)   Heights and Area Limitations. No roof sign shall have a surface or
facing exceeding one hundred fifty (150) square feet, nor have its highest
point extended more than fifteen feet (15') above the roof level.
   (B)   Setback from Roof Edge. No roof sign shall be erected or maintained
with the face thereof nearer than five feet (5') to the outside wall toward
which the sign faces.
   (C)   Space Between Sign and Roof. All roof signs shall have a space at
least five feet (5') in height between the base of the sign and the roof level
and have at least five feet (5') horizontal clearance between the vertical
supports thereof.
   (D)   Prohibited Obstructions. No roof sign shall be placed on the roof of
any building or structure in such manner as to prevent free passage from one
part of said roof to any other part thereof or interfere with openings in said
roof and every roof sign shall comply with Section 7-17-17 of this Chapter.
7-17-36: ERECTION:
   (A)   Bracing, Anchorage and Supports. Every roof sign shall be thoroughly
secured to the building by iron or other metal anchors, bolts, supports, rods,
or braces. When erected upon buildings which are not rated as of fireproof
construction, the bearing plates of said sign shall bear directly upon masonry
walls or intermediate steel columns. No roof sign shall be supported by or
anchored to the wooden framework of a building.
   (B)   Wind Pressure, and Dead Load Requirements. All roof signs shall
conform to the requirements of Section 7-17-13 of this Chapter.(Ord. 1965-32,
10-28-65)
ARTICLE V. Projecting Signs
7-17-37: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Projecting sign, as regulated by this Chapter, shall include any sign
which is attached to a building or other structure and extends beyond the line
of the said building or structure or beyond the surface of that portion of the
building or structure to which it is attached by more than twelve inches (12").
(Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65, amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
   (B)   Vertical projecting sign means any projecting sign the height of which
is not less than twice its width if it is six feet (6') or less in height, and
the height of which is not less than three (3) times its width if it is more
than six feet (6') in height.
   (C)   All other projecting signs shall be regarded as horizontal signs for
the purpose of this Chapter.
7-17-38: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Every projecting sign, including the frames, braces and supports
thereof, shall be designed by a structural engineer, registered architect, or
sign manufacturer and shall be approved by the Sign Inspector as being in
compliance with the Village of River Grove Building Code of the Village of
River Grove, and by the Electrical Inspector as being in compliance with the
Electrical Code of the Village, and shall be constructed of incombustible or
approved combustible materials.
   (B)   Exterior Illumination. If a projecting sign is illuminated from its
exterior, any reflectors shall concentrate the illumination upon the area of
the sign and prevent glare upon the street or adjacent property, and no
floodlight, spotlight, or reflectors of the goose-neck type shall be permitted
on projecting signs.
   (C)   Interior Illumination. The lettering or advertising designs to be
illuminated from the interior shall be composed of transparent or semi-
transparent incombustible or approved combustible materials.
   (D)   Moveable Parts to be Secured. Any movable part of a projecting sign,
such as the cover of a service opening, shall be securely fastened by chains or
hinges.
   (E)   Area Limitations. Except by special permission of the Board of
Trustees, projecting signs shall be limited in area as follows:
      1.   Horizontal projecting signs twenty (20) square feet each side.
      2.   Vertical projecting signs forty (40) square feet each side.
   (F)   Thickness Limitations. The distance measured between the principal
faces of any projecting sign shall not exceed eighteen inches (18").
   (G)   Height Limitation. Every projecting sign shall comply with the
applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance relating to the maximum height
thereof. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
7-17-39: LOCATION:
   (A)   All projecting signs must be confined within the boundaries of the
property on which they are established and shall not be erected or maintained
over any public way or property.
   (B)   No projecting sign shall be erected in a residential zone as defined
in the present or hereafter adopted Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
7-17-40: ERECTION:
   (A)   Bracing, Anchorage and Supports. Projecting signs exceeding ten (10)
square feet in area for fifty (50) pounds in weight shall not be attached to
nor supported by frame buildings nor the wooden framework of a building. Said
signs shall be attached to masonry walls with corrosion resistant expansion
bolts at least three-eighths inch (3/8") in diameter shall be embedded at least
five inches (5") into said wall and shall comply with Section 7-17-13 of this
Chapter.
   (B)   Anchorage with Wire, etc., Prohibited. No projecting sign shall be
secured with wire, strips of wood or nails, nor shall any projecting sign be
hung or secured to any other sign.
7-17-41: V-SHAPED SIGNS PROHIBITED:
V-shaped signs, consisting of two (2) single faced signs erected without a roof
or ceiling, shall not be permitted.
    ARTICLE VI. Temporary Signs
7-17-42: DEFINITION:
Temporary signs as regulated by this Chapter shall include any sign, banner,
pennant, valance or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light
fabric, cardboard, wallboard, or other light materials, with or without frames,
intended to be displayed for a short period of time only.
7-17-43: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Materials and Area Limitations. No temporary sign of combustible
material shall exceed four feet (4') in one of its dimensions or one hundred
(100) square feet in area, and provided such signs in excess of sixty (60)
square feet shall be made of rigid materials, that is, of wallboard or other
light materials with frames. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
   (B)   Weight Limitation. Every temporary sign weighing in excess of fifty
(50) pounds must be approved by the Building Commissioner as conforming to the
safety requirements of the Building Code of the Village of River Grove. (Ord.
1965-32, 10-28-65; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-88)
7-17-44: LOCATION:
   (A)   Projecting from Wall and Over Public Property. No temporary sign shall
extend over or into any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare a
distance greater than four inches (4") from the wall to which it is attached,
and shall not be placed or project over any wall opening.
   (B)   Obstruction to Doors, Windows and Fire Escapes. No temporary sign
shall be erected so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from any door,
window or fire escape, nor shall such sign be attached to any stand pipe or
fire escape.
7-17-45: ERECTION:
   (A)   Anchorage and Support. Every temporary sign shall be attached to the
wall with wire or steel cables, and no strings, ropes or wood slats for
anchorage or support purposes shall be permitted.
7-17-46: DURATION OF PERMITS:
Permits for temporary signs shall authorize the erection of said signs and
their maintenance for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days.
7-17-47: ADVERTISING PERMITTED:
The advertisement contained on any temporary sign shall pertain only to the
business, industry or pursuit conducted on or within the premises on which such
sign is erected or maintained. This provision shall not apply to signs of a
civic, political or religious nature.
7-17-48: BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Bond or insurance requirements on temporary signs shall be as provided in
Section 7-17-16 of this Chapter.
ARTICLE VII. Marquees
7-17-49: DEFINITION:
Marquees, hereinbefore defined as other advertising structure, as regulated by
this Chapter, shall mean and include any fixed hood or canopy, constructed of
metal or other incombustible material, supported solely by the building to
which it is attached, and extending over a public thoroughfare. No marquee
shall be erected in any residential district as defined in the present or
hereafter adopted Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
7-17-50: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Materials Required. All marquees including the anchor bolts, supports,
rods, and braces thereof shall be constructed of incombustible or approved
combustible materials, shall be designed by a structural engineer and approved
by the Building Commissioner as in compliance with the Building Code of the
Village and if appropriate, by the Electrical Inspector as in compliance with
the Electrical Code of the Village. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65, amd. Ord. 1988-13,
9-1-88)
   (B)   Drainage. The roofs of all marquees shall be properly guttered and
connected by down spouts to a sewer so that the water therefrom will not drip
or flow onto public property.
   (C)   Roofs. The roofs of all marquees shall be used for no other purpose
than to form and constitute a roof, and shall be constructed of incombustible
material.
7-17-51: LOCATION:
   (A)   Height Above Sidewalk. No portion of a marquee shall be less than ten
feet (10') above the level of the sidewalk or other public thoroughfare over
which it projects.
   (B)   Setback from Curb Line. No marquee shall be permitted to extend beyond
the curb line.
   (C)   Width. No marquee shall be wider than the entrance or entrances of the
building plus five feet (5') on each side thereof, unless approved by the Board
of Trustees.
7-17-52: ERECTION:
   (A)   Bracing, Anchorage and Supports. Marquees shall be supported solely by
the building to which they are attached, and no columns or posts shall be
permitted as support thereof.
   (B)   Roof Live Load Requirements. The roof of any marquee shall be designed
and constructed to support a live load of not less than one hundred (100)
pounds per square foot, The wind pressure requirements shall be those stated in
Section 7-17-13 of this Chapter.
   (C)   Anchorage to Wood Structure Prohibited. No marquee shall be erected on
any building of wood frame construction.
7-17-53: SIGNS ATTACHED TO MARQUEE:
No temporary sign as defined in this Chapter, shall be attached to, or hung
from a marquee except a sign painted or illuminated directly upon the vertical
hanging fascia of the marquee, and shall in no instance be lower than ten feet
(10') above the sidewalk or public thoroughfare. No temporary advertising
material shall be placed upon the roof of any marquee.
7-17-54: BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Bond or insurance requirements on marquees shall be as provided in Section 7-
17-16 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-65)
7-17-54.1: MARQUEES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to erect or maintain a marquee, as defined herein. Any existing
marquee may be maintained, subject to the provisions of Article X of this
Chapter, in accordance with the requirements of this Code. (Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-
88)
ARTICLE VIII. Street Clocks
7-17-55: DEFINITION:
Street clock, hereinbefore defined as other advertising structure, as regulated
by this Chapter, shall mean any time piece erected on the exterior of any
building, or structure overhanging a public thoroughfare, and maintained by
some person for the purpose of advertising his place of business or for the
convenience of the public.
7-17-56: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   All street clocks as herein defined shall be constructed of
incombustible material, including the frames, braces and supports thereof.
   (B)   Regulation of Size of Dial. The dial of such clocks shall be not more
than forty two inches (42") in diameter.
   (C)   Requirements on Glass. Any glass forming a part of a clock or the sign
thereon shall be safety glass, or plate glass at least one-fourth inch (1/4")
thick, or an approved plastic securely fastened thereto by metal hinges.
7-17-57: LOCATION:
   (A)   Clocks Erected on Walls. Clocks supported on any building or
structures shall not be less than fifteen feet (15') above the sidewalk, and
shall not project from the face or wall of the building or structure to a point
more than two feet (2') from the curb line.
   (B)   Wind Pressure and Dead Load Requirements. All Street clocks erected on
exterior walls shall comply with the requirements of Section 7-17-13 of this
Chapter.
7-17-58: ADVERTISING PERMITTED:
No advertising shall be placed upon any street clock other than the name of the
owner, the business industry or pursuit conducted within the premises to which
said clock is attached.
7-17-59: BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Bond or insurance requirements for the erection and maintenance of street
clocks shall be as provided in Section 7-17-16 of this Chapter.
ARTICLE IX. Zoning Restrictions
7-17-60: ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter regulating the location, placement, gross
surface area, projection, and number of signs or other advertising structures,
shall be subject to and further restricted by any applicable provisions of the
present or hereafter adopted Zoning Ordinance of the Village. (Ord. 1965-32,
10-28-65)
7-17-60.1: STREET CLOCKS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to erect or maintain a street clock, as defined herein. Any
existing street clock may be maintained, subject to the provisions of Article X
of this Chapter, in accordance with the requirements of this Code.
ARTICLE X. Legal Nonconforming Signs and Structures
7-17-61: LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGNS AND STRUCTURES:
7-17-61.1: QUALIFICATION:
Any sign or structure located within the Village on the date of the adoption of
this Article or located in an area annexed to the Village thereafter, which
does not conform to the provisions of this Chapter is a legal nonconforming
sign or structure and is permitted providing it also meets the following
requirements:
   A.   The sign or structure was covered by a permit or variance on the date
of the adoption of this Article, if one was required under applicable law.
   (B)   If no such permit was required for the sign or structure in question,
the sign or structure was in all other respects in compliance with applicable
law on the date of the adoption of this chapter. (Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-1988)
7-17-61.2: AUTHORIZATION SCHEDULE:
All legal nonconforming signs or structures must ultimately be removed by their
owners according to the following amortization schedule (time periods being at
the date of adoption of this chapter):
 
Sign Value At Installation Removal At End Of
Less than $50.00           90 days
$51.00 to $250.00          1 year
$250.00 to $1,000.00       2 years
$1,000.00 to $5,000.00     4 years
Over $5,000.00             7 years
 
(Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-1988)
7-17-61.3: LOSS OF STATUS:
Any of the following actions shall cause a sign or structure to lose its legal
nonconforming status:
   (A)   Damage which requires repairs which will exceed fifty percent (50%) of
replacement value.
   (B)   Required maintenance which will exceed fifty percent (50%) of
replacement value.
   (C)   A change of ownership or tenancy which requires a new occupancy permit
for the premises on which a legal nonconforming sign or structure is located.
   (D)   Relocation of a sign or structure either on the premises or to another
location.
   (E)   Remodeling which encompassed more than fifty percent (50%) of the
display frontage of the business to which the sign or structure relates. (Ord.
1988-13, 9-1-1988)
7-17-61.4: CONTINUING OBLIGATION:
Nothing in this article shall relieve the owner or user of a legal
nonconforming sign or structure or the owner of the property on which it is
located from the provisions of this chapter regarding safety, maintenance and
repair of signs and structures; provided, however, that any repainting,
cleaning and other normal maintenance or repair hereof shall not modify the
sign, structure or copy in any way which makes it more nonconforming. (Ord.
1988-13, 9-1-1988)
ARTICLE XI. Revocation Of Permits
7-17-62: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
The village clerk is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke any permit
issued by him upon failure of the permittee to comply with any provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 1965-32, 10-28-1965; amd. Ord. 1988-13, 9-1-1988)
CHAPTER 18
ELEVATORS
SECTION:
7-18-1: Registration And Inspection Required
7-18-2: Inspection Fee Schedule
7-18-3: Posting Of Certificate
7-18-4: Penalty
7-18-1: REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION REQUIRED:
Every passenger elevator, freight elevator, movable stage, dock lift,
wheelchair lift, movable orchestra floor, movable platform, dumbwaiter or
escalator now in operation, or which may hereafter be installed, together with
the hoistway and all equipment thereof, shall be inspected under and by the
authority of the commissioner of buildings at least once every six (6) months,
and in no case shall any new equipment be placed in operation until an
inspection of the same has been made and been found to be in compliance with
all applicable codes. All such devices and equipment now existing or to be
constructed shall be registered with the building department, on a form
prepared and approved by the building department by the owner and operator of
the equipment. (Ord. 2003-07, 9-18-2003)
7-18-2: INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE:
The fee for inspections required by this chapter shall be as follows:
Existing elevators, escalators,             $ 75.00/unit
dumbwaiters, freight elevators, lifts, etc.
Reinspection of any existing                75.00/unit
equipment because equipment failed           
initial inspection
Inspection of new elevators, escalators,    120.00/unit
dumbwaiters, freight elevators, lifts,       
etc.
Reinspection of any new equipment           120.00/unit
because equipment failed initial             
inspection
Review of architectural plans, elevator     120.00/REVW
drawings, etc.                               
Full load governor safety test              120.00/unit
Retest of full load governor safety         120.00/unit
test because equipment failed initial        
test
Rescheduling of any scheduled test          75.00/unit
canceled by the owner and/or operator
 
All inspections, tests, or reviews which the owner or operator request be
completed on an expedited basis, or that requires overtime to complete, will
require that the owner or operator pay double the fees set forth above. (Ord.
2003-07, 9-18-2003)
7-18-3: POSTING OF CERTIFICATE:
The building department shall issue a certificate of compliance after
inspecting and determining the equipment's compliance with all applicable
codes, and payment of all applicable fees to the village. It shall be the joint
and several duty of any owner, agent, occupant or lessee of the building in or
property upon which such equipment is located and of each person in charge or
control of such equipment to frame the certificate and place the same in a
conspicuous place in each elevator, or near each dumbwaiter, movable stage,
movable orchestra floor, platform lift, escalator, or such other equipment. No
certificate of compliance shall be issued until all fees have been paid to the
village, and the fee for a replacement certificate shall be fifteen dollars
($15.00). (Ord. 2003-07, 9-18-2003)
7-18-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter, where no other penalty is provided, shall be fined
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed on each day that
a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2003-07, 9-18-2003)
CHAPTER 19
OCCUPANCY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-19-1: Compliance
7-19-2: Assembly Occupancy
7-19-3: Other Occupancy
7-19-4: Building And House Numbering
7-19-1: COMPLIANCE:
It is unlawful for any owner, occupant, lessee, licensee or person in control
or charge of any building, structure or portion thereof to permit the same to
be occupied in violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 1972-1, 1-13-1972, eff. 1-23-
1972)
7-19-2: ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCY:
The occupancy content shall be based on the capacity of the rooms or spaces
used for assembly purposes and shall be determined as follows:
   (A)   In rooms or spaces with fixed seating, the occupancy content shall be
the actual number of seats provided, fixed seating shall be computed at
eighteen inches (18") per person, when not divided.
   (B)   In rooms or spaces without fixed seating, the occupancy content shall
be determined by the dividing of the net floor area (excluding the areas
occupied by elevators, toilet rooms, stairways, other shaft enclosures, and by
permanent fixtures such as bowling alleys, bars, cigar counters, exit
facilities, entrance vestibules, lunch counters and serving spaces for same,
etc.) by the floor area per person established in the following table:
 
Assembly Occupancy                         Floor Area Per Person
1. School class rooms and recreation rooms 20 sq. ft.
2. School laboratories and shops           30 sq. ft.
3. Museums, libraries and similar uses     20 sq. ft.
4. Restaurants                             15 sq. ft.
5. Other assembly uses                     6 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 1972-1, 1-13-1972, eff. 1-23-1972)
7-19-3: OTHER OCCUPANCY:
In occupancies other than assembly, the occupancy content shall be determined
by dividing the net floor area within the perimeter of the space or building
not including elevators, stairways or other shaft enclosures by the floor area
per person established in the following table:
Occupancy Floor Area
          Per Person
Occupancy              Floor Area
                       Per Person
Residential units      125 sq. ft.
Institutional units    150 sq. ft.
Business units         100 sq. ft.
Mercantile units
First floor            30 sq. ft.
Basement sales floor   30 sq. ft.
Other floors           60 sq. ft.
Industrial units
Power plants           400 sq. ft.
Other industrial units 100 sq. ft.
Storage units          300 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 1972-1, 1-13-1972, eff. 1-23-1972)
7-19-4: BUILDING AND HOUSE NUMBERING:
   (A)   Duty Of Owner: It is the duty of the owner or occupant of every
building in the Village to place or cause to be placed and to maintain thereon,
figures, at least three inches (3") high but not more than six inches (6")
high, indicating the street number of the building.
   (B)   Placement Of Numbers: Placement of these numbers shall be both at the
front of the building and in the rear of the property. The placement and
maintenance of a similar sign or post at or near the street on the private
portion of property, may be considered an acceptable sign in lieu of a
numbering sign for the front of the building. The figures must be visible from
the street, and the figures at the rear of the property must be visible from
the alley. In cases where no alley exists, no sign is required.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person, owner or occupant violating the provisions of
this Section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed on each day that a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1995-08, 10-5-
1995, eff. 6-1-1996)
CHAPTER 20
SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNAS
SECTION:
7-20-1: Definitions
7-20-2: Compliance
7-20-3: Location
7-20-4: Size; Height
7-20-5: Permit; Inspection; Fee
7-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall herein have the meanings ascribed to them:
SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNA: An apparatus capable of receiving communications
from a transmitter or a transmitter relay located in planetary orbit. For the
purposes of this Chapter, it shall be considered a structure as defined in this
Code.
USABLE SATELLITE SIGNAL: A satellite signal which when viewed on a conventional
television set, is at least equal in picture quality to that received from
local commercial television or by way of cable television.
7-20-2: COMPLIANCE:
It is unlawful to erect, alter, relocate or maintain a satellite television
antenna within the Village without obtaining a permit therefore. All
applications for permits shall be made to the Village Clerk as is provided for
by ordinance.
7-20-3: LOCATION:
All satellite television antennas shall be located in accordance with the
regulations herein contained.
   (A)   In single or multi-family zones, such antenna shall be located in the
rear yard area.
   (B)   In a commercial or industrial zone, such antenna may be located
anywhere on the lot, subject to this Chapter.
   (C)   In the event that a usable signal cannot be obtained with a ground
installation, such antenna may be placed on the roof of the building provided
that:
      1.   Satisfactory showing is made by applicant that a usable signal
cannot be so obtained.
      2.   A building permit is obtained.
      3.   The construction and erection is otherwise in compliance with
applicable codes.
   (D)   In no event may such antenna be closer than ten feet (10') to a lot
line measured from the outermost portion of the antenna turning radius.
   (E)   Satellite antennas shall be located, designed and screened to reduce
visual impact from surrounding properties in residential zones, on properties
adjoining residential zones and from streets and other public ways and
property. Screening shall be provided on at least three (3) sides by solid
fencing or evergreens.
7-20-4: SIZE; HEIGHT:
All satellite antennas shall comply with the following size and height
restrictions:
   (A)   Such antenna shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height, including
any platform or structure upon which it is mounted or affixed, in the case of a
ground installation or three feet (3') plus the antenna diameter above the
roof, in case of roof installations. Should the height limitation in the zone
in which erected conflict, the lower height shall prevail.
   (B)   Such antenna shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in diameter for a
ground installation or four feet (4') in diameter for a roof installation in a
residential zone and eight feet (8') in diameter in a commercial or industrial
zone.
   (C)   Not more than one such antenna is permitted on any lot or building.
   (D)   All antennas and the construction and installation thereof shall
conform to applicable Village Code regulations as well as U.L. regulations.
   (E)   Antennas shall meet all manufacturer's specifications, be of
noncombustible and corrosive resistant material and be erected in a secure,
wind resistant manner.
   (F)   Every antenna must be adequately grounded for protection against
lightning strikes.
7-20-5: PERMIT; INSPECTION; FEE:
The fees to be paid for all permits and inspections required by this Chapter
shall coincide with fees applicable for permits for other buildings and
structures by this Code. (Ord. 1985-3, 2-21-85)
CHAPTER 21
PROPERTY INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE 1
SECTION:
7-21-1: Definitions
7-21-2: Rental Dwelling Inspection Code
7-21-3: Real Estate Transfer Inspection Code And Stamp
7-21-4: Appeal Of Certificate Of Inspection Denied Or Revoked
7-21-5: Exemptions
7-21-6: Exemption Stamp
7-21-7: Filing Fees And Costs
7-21-8: BOCA Commission Compensation
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-19-1 of this code for enforcing officer.
7-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given to them in this section:
BASEMENT: That portion of a structure which is partly or completely below
grade.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence,
including mobile homes, but excluding boarding or lodging houses, nursing
homes, motels, hotels, tourist homes, tents and recreational vehicles.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building consisting of two (2) or more dwelling
units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A single dwelling unit and accessory uses thereto.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED: A single-family dwelling attached to one or
more single-family dwellings by one or more party walls with each dwelling
located on a separate subdivided lot.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A single-family dwelling separated from other
dwelling units by open space.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: A dwelling unit that is attached to one or more other
dwelling units on the same lot, that has an individual private ground level
entrance to the outside, and no portion of which is located above or below any
other premises or portion thereof.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building consisting of only two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the county health department.
FLOOR AREA, DWELLING UNIT: The area inside the exterior or fire walls of a
building, exclusive of vent shafts, courts, and public places.
FLOOR AREA, ROOM: The net area within the finished walls of a room.
HABITABLE ROOM: A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyer or communicating corridors,
closets, storage spaces or bomb shelters.
HOUSEKEEPING UNIT: A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
equipped and intended to be used for sleeping, cooking, and eating which does
not contain within such unit a toilet, lavatory, and bathtub or shower.
LANDLORD: An owner, agent of an owner or other person who rents or leases a
dwelling, dwelling unit, housekeeping unit or rooming unit to a tenant under an
oral or written rental agreement.
OCCUPANT: Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having actual
possession of, a dwelling unit, housekeeping unit, or rooming unit.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are leased.
OWNER: Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
(A)Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
(B)Shall have charge, or care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit, as
owner or agent of the owner, prime tenant, or as executor, executrix,
administrator, administration, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner.
Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply
with the provisions of this code to the same extent as if such person were the
owner.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or limited
liability entity.
RENTAL AGREEMENT: An oral or written agreement covering a definite or
indefinite period of time of one week or more between a landlord and a tenant
for the renting or leasing of a dwelling, dwelling unit, housekeeping unit, or
rooming unit.
RENTAL UNIT: Any dwelling unit or housekeeping unit that is rented or leased or
offered for rent or lease under a rental agreement.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building or part thereof that is not a hotel, motel, or
tourist home and that provides lodging rooms to three (3) or more paying guests
who are not members of the keeper's family and mainly to nontransients.
TENANT: An occupant who occupies a dwelling, dwelling unit, housekeeping unit
or rooming unit pursuant to a written or oral agreement with a landlord
covering a definite or indefinite period of one week or more.
Meaning Of Certain Words: Whenever the words "dwelling", "dwelling unit",
"housekeeping unit", "rooming house", "rooming unit", or "premises" are used in
this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words
"or any part thereof". (Ord. 1997-06, 8-7-1997, eff. 10-1-1997)
7-21-2: RENTAL DWELLING INSPECTION CODE:
   (A)   Certificate Of Occupancy Requirement:
      1.   No person, whether an owner, manager, agent or sublessor, shall
operate and no owner shall permit the operation of a dwelling unit or rooming
house or rent or lease or offer to rent or lease any rental unit unless such
establishment or rental unit has been granted a certificate of occupancy from
the village as provided herein.
      2.   No person in charge of any dwelling shall permit or allow any rental
unit in such dwelling to be rented or leased unless such unit receives a
certificate of occupancy as provided herein.
      3.   The village shall cause periodic inspections of all dwelling units
which are subject to this code and located within the corporate limits of the
village.
   (B)   Applicability: This code shall be applicable to all residential
properties located within the corporate limits of the village which are rented
or leased by persons other than the owner, owners and/or persons not related to
the owner or owners or will be offered to others for purposes of occupancy
through rental or lease agreements, or by other mutually acceptable agreements
leading to occupancy.
   (C)   Registry Of Owners And Premises:
      1.   A registry of owners and premises shall be maintained by the
building department of the village.
      2.   The owner(s) of multi-family dwellings units consisting of two (2)
or more units which are occupied at the time of enactment of this Section by
persons other than the owner, owners and/or persons not related to the owner or
owners, or will be offered to others for purposes of occupancy through rental
or lease agreements, or by other mutually acceptable agreements leading to
occupancy, shall register the name(s) and place(s) of residence or usual places
of business of the owner(s) and the location of the premises regulated by this
chapter with the building department of the village. The owner(s) shall re-
register the property thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of a certificate
of occupancy issued by the village which shall be valid for a period of two (2)
years. Within thirty (30) days of a change of ownership, the new owner(s) shall
register with the village in the same manner as previously set forth.
      3.   The owner(s) of single family and condominium dwelling units held
out or used as rental property must be registered with the building department
as a rental property within (30) days of a change of ownership or of the
property being held out or used as rental property. The owner(s) shall re-
register thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of a certificate of occupancy
issued by the village which shall be valid for a period of one (1) year.
   (D)   Fees:
      1.   At the time of registration and before the applicable inspection is
conducted, an inspection fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) plus a
registration fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per rental unit shall be paid
by the owner(s) or operator(s) of each one-family, two-family, condominium or
multi-family dwelling structure subject to this Code. If more than one (1)
reinspection is required before the issuance of the occupancy permit, an
additional fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid by the owner(s)
or operator(s) for each additional re-inspection. The additional reinspection
fee shall not be charged if the subsequent re-inspection concerns conditions
that have not been subject to previous inspection and re-inspection.
      2.   All inspection and registration fees are payable at the time of
registration, and any additional reinspection fees must be paid before the
issuance of any occupancy permit required by this code.
   (E)   Inspections:
      1.   The village shall cause periodic inspections to be made of all
dwellings subject to this Chapter. In no event shall the period between
inspections exceed one (1) year for all single family and condominium rental
properties and two (2) years for all multi-family dwelling units consisting of
two (2) or more dwelling units.
      2.   Inspections shall be conducted in a manner best calculated to secure
compliance with the applicable village regulations and appropriate to the needs
of the community.
      3.   The building commissioner or his designee may request permission to
enter all premises regulated by this chapter at reasonable hours to undertake
an inspection for compliance.
   (F)   Inspection Warrants: Where admission to premises to be inspected under
the provisions of this code is refused by the occupant or person in charge
thereof, the village shall apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an
administrative search warrant to inspect the premises. The administrative
warrant shall state the address of the building to be inspected, the nature and
reason for the inspection. The administrative search warrant shall state that
it is issued pursuant to this chapter and the purpose for which it is issued.
   (G)   Inspection Policy And Record Keeping:
      1.   It is the policy of the village that the inspection procedures set
forth herein are in the public interest, to secure the health and safety of the
occupants of dwellings and the general public.
      2.   The village shall keep records for all inspections and matters
related to the procedures set forth herein.
   (H)   Certificates Of Occupancy:
      1.   Dwellings subject to this code shall not be occupied unless a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the village. The rental certificate
shall be issued only upon prior inspection of the premises, except as provided
in subsection (H)4. of this section. The certificate of occupancy shall be
issued within fifteen (15) days after written application therefor if the
dwelling at the date of application is entitled thereto.
      2.   Upon finding that there is no condition that would constitute a
hazard to the health and safety of the occupants, and the premises is otherwise
fit for occupancy, the certificate shall be issued. If the finding is of a
condition that would constitute a hazard to health or safety, no certificate of
occupancy shall be issued, and an order to comply with this code shall be
issued immediately and served upon the owner. On reinspections and evidence of
compliance, the order shall be rescinded and a certificate of occupancy issued.
      3.   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued on condition that the
premises remain in a safe, healthful and fit condition for occupancy. If upon
reinspection the village determines that conditions exist which constitute a
hazard to the health or safety of the occupants, the certificate of occupancy
may be immediately suspended and a notice shall be served upon the owner to
correct such violations.
      4.   An owner or owner authorized agent shall apply for a certificate of
occupancy. Inspection and issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be in
accordance with the requirements of this code and with procedures established
by the village. The village may authorize the issuance of a temporary
certificate of occupancy without inspection for those premises in which there
are no violations of record as of the effective date hereof, and shall issue
such temporary certificate of occupancy upon applications in cases where
inspections are not made within a reasonable time not to exceed one hundred
eighty (180) days. Temporary certificates of occupancy may also be issued for
premises with violations of record when the owner can show proof of action
taken to correct such conditions.
      5.   It shall be required, and the responsibility of the owner, to
maintain the certificate of occupancy, either temporary or permanent, as they
are issued, at the premises for which they are issued. The certificate of
occupancy shall be displayed on request of a code enforcement officer. Failure
to have the certificate of occupancy on display, or failure to produce the
certificate of occupancy on request, shall constitute a separate offense for
which the owner and/or occupant are liable.
      6.   Buildings having more than two (2) dwelling units shall post the
building certificate of occupancy which shall list all dwelling units in said
building in addition to their permitted occupancy loads. The building
certificate of occupancy shall be visible at all times.
      7.   All multi-family dwelling units, single-family dwellings and
condominiums held out or used as rental property shall receive a certificate of
occupancy if any only if the property has been completely approved and all
listed code violations have been abated, and all dwelling units within a multi-
family structure are otherwise in compliance with all applicable Codes of the
village.
   (I)   Violations:
      1.   If, upon inspection, the premises or any part thereof is found to be
in violation of any provision of any ordinance of the village, including,
without limitation, the fire prevention code, property maintenance code,
building code, zoning ordinance, electrical code, plumbing code, cross
connection code, or any such other code adopted by the village, the violations
shall be recorded by the building commissioner or his designee and retained in
the applicable owner and premises files.
      2.   The owner and lessor or occupant shall be informed of the existence
of the violations. The owner and occupant/tenant are responsible for abatement
of violations. The notice shall state the date, name of the building
commissioner or his or her designee, the specific details of the violation and
the time within which the correction shall be completed.
      3.   A violation which is determined to constitute a hazard to the health
or safety of the occupants as defined in the property maintenance code, under
circumstances where the premises cannot be vacated, shall be ordered corrected
within the shortest reasonable time. All other violations shall be corrected
within a reasonable time as determined by the village.
      4.   If a violation of any village ordinance is found to exist on the
premises and the violations are not abated, the village may revoke the
certificate of occupancy issued. If a certificate of occupancy is revoked, the
certificate of occupancy shall not be reinstated or issued until all violations
are abated.
   (J)   Revocation Of Certificates Of Occupancy:
      1.   A certificate of occupancy may be revoked at any time during the
occupancy of the rental unit for which the certificate of occupancy has been
issued if the building commissioner or his designee determines, following a
reasonable investigation, that the unit does not comply with the provision of
this code. Prior to the revocation of a certificate of occupancy, the building
department shall provide the owner, agent or manager and the tenant with a
written report stating the defects noted during the investigation and providing
a reasonable time for the correction of said defects, except when the
conditions of the unit pose an immediate threat to the life, health or safety
of the occupants in which case the building commissioner shall issue a notice
of revocation to the owner, agent or manager and the tenants immediately and
shall then cause the unit to be vacated without delay.
      2.   If a dwelling unit in a multi-family building is found to be in
violation of an ordinance of the village, the village may revoke or suspend the
building certificate of occupancy issued to that building as well as the one
issued to the specific unit. The certificate of occupancy shall remain revoked
or suspended until said violation is abated.
   (K)   Penalty: Any person violating the terms and conditions of this Code
shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) with each and every day that the violation of the Code is allowed to
remain in effect being deemed a complete and separate offense. In addition, the
appropriate authorities of the Village may take such other action as they deem
proper to enforce the terms and conditions of this Code, including, without
limitation, an action to compel compliance with its terms. That any person
violating the terms of this Code shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing
penalties, to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 1997-06, 8-7-1997, eff. 10-1-1997; amd. Ord. 2001-10, 12-6-2001; Ord.
2002-03, 3-14-2002; Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
7-21-3: REAL ESTATE TRANSFER INSPECTION CODE AND STAMP:
   (A)   Inspection Stamp Requirement Upon Real Estate Transfer:
      1.   Compliance: No owner, agent, or person in charge of a dwelling or a
structure used as a dwelling shall sell, convey, quit claim, trade, or
otherwise transfer same unless said dwelling or structure shall have been
inspected and determined to be in compliance with all of the provisions of the
Real Estate Transfer Inspection Code, as evidenced by an inspection stamp
issued by the Building Commissioner.
      2.   Title Insurance Reports: The requirement of inspection, obtaining
the inspection stamp, and payment of inspection fees shall be mandatory on all
transfers of ownership of or beneficial interest in all dwellings and
structures within the Village. This requirement shall further be reflected on
all real estate title insurance reports conducted precedent to the transfer of
ownership to give public notice of the mandatory inspection and issuance of the
inspection stamp. Copies of this Chapter shall be sent to all title insurance
companies with notice that the mandatory inspection and inspection stamp is
required on any transfer of ownership of real estate in the Village.
      3.   Application For Inspection Stamp: Any person owning real estate
located within the Village shall, at the time of offering the real estate for
sale or transfer, but not less than twenty one (21{'}'} days prior to any
proposed sale, assignment or other transfer of any legal or beneficial interest
of said real estate, file for an application for an inspection stamp with the
Building Department. In addition to the completed transfer stamp application,
the following items shall be submitted with the application or delivered prior
to the issuance of the applied for transfer stamp:
         (a)   An approved Property Transfer Inspection including notation as
to any required escrow deposit from the grantee or assignee regarding
completing code compliance repairs or replacements set forth in the inspection
report; and
         (b)   The escrow deposit required of any grantee or assignee assuming
responsibility for rectifying all code compliance issues identified in the
inspection report, which shall be paid by cashier's check or cash; and
         (c)   Payment in full by the grantor of all debts due and owing the
village including without limitation parking violations, code violations,
permit fees, etc; and
         (d)   A completed and signed New Property Owner Form of the grantee;
and
         (e)   A copy of the deed, assignment, or other instrument of
conveyance or transfer involved in the subject transaction, the names of the
grantor and grantee, and a legal description, permanent index number(s), and
common address of the property to which it relates; and
         (f)   A copy of the real estate transfer declaration filed pursuant to
Section 31-25 of the Real Estate Transfer Tax Law, 35 ILCS 200/31-25; and
         (g)   A Plat of Survey, except where the real estate is a condominium,
shall be provided by the applicant to the village that conforms to the current
Minimum Standard of Practice for boundary surveys, is dated not more than six
(6) months prior to the date of Closing, and is prepared by a professional land
surveyor licensed to practice land surveying under the laws of the State of
Illinois. The Plat of Survey shall show visible evidence of improvements,
rights of way, easements, use and measurements of all parcel lines. The Plat of
Survey shall include the following statement placed near the professional land
surveyor's seal and signature: "This professional service conforms to the
current Illinois Minimum Standards for a boundary survey." In the event the
survey is more than six (6) months old, the applicant must provide an Affidavit
of No Improvements with the survey and pay a survey inspection fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) in lieu of providing a current survey.
      4.   Appointed Time Of Inspection: Upon request of the owner, agent or
other persons authorized to sell a dwelling or a structure used as a dwelling
(hereinafter referred to as "applicant"), the Building Commissioner or his or
her designee will be available at an appointed time within ten (10) working
days agreed upon by Building Department and the applicant, or later if
applicant requests, to inspect such dwelling, or structure. The term "ten (10)
working days" in this instance shall mean any ten (10) business days from the
date the applicant delivers the application to the Building Department, during
regular business hours.
      5.   Issuance: If such inspection establishes that the dwelling or the
structure used as a dwelling complies with the provisions of the Real Estate
Transfer Code and all required submittals have been received by the Building
Department. then the Building Commissioner or his or her designee shall issue
an inspection transfer stamp for said dwelling which shall be affixed upon the
original deed or document of transfer before recording. The transfer inspection
stamp shall be provided to the applicant and attached to a copy of the
inspection report for the property. The inspection stamp shall indicate the
date of inspection; and that such dwelling complies with the requirements of
the Real Estate Transfer Ordinance. The inspection stamp shall be affixed upon
the original deed or document of transfer. A record of all inspection stamps
shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Department and copies shall
be furnished, upon request, to any person having an interest or tenancy
interest in the dwelling affected.
      6.   Inspection Report: Said inspection shall be governed by the
inspection report currently approved by the Building Commissioner and on file
in the Village Clerk's office. An Inspection Report shall be valid for no more
than three (3) months after which time a new Application for Transfer
Inspection Stamp must be submitted along with any fees required under this
Section.
   (B)   Fees: All inspection and re-inspection fees shall be in accordance
with the current fee schedule of the Village, and all re-inspection fees shall
be payable prior to any reinspection. No inspection stamp shall be issued
without payment first of all inspection and re-inspection fees being received
by the Village.
      1.   For single-family dwellings, a fee of one hundred seventy-five
dollars ($175,00) shall be paid by the applicant for the initial inspection,
one re-inspection and issuance of the transfer stamp, which is payable at the
time the application is submitted. A fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall
be paid for each additional re-inspection. No property inspection stamp shall
be issued to the applicant prior to payment of all fees due by the application.
      2.   For all other dwellings and structures, a fee of seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) shall be paid per dwelling unit for one inspection and
reinspection and a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for issuance of the
stamp, payable prior to the initial inspection and issuance of the stamp. There
shall be a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) paid per dwelling unit for each
additional reinspection thereof, payable prior to any reinspection. No
inspection stamp shall be issued without payment first being received by the
village.
   (C)   Inspection Stamp Requirement for Condominiums - Inspection Code and
Stamp:
      1.   Compliance: No owner, agent, or person in charge of a condominium
dwelling or a structure used as a condominium dwelling shall sell, convey, quit
claim, trade, or otherwise transfer same unless said dwelling or structure
shall have been inspected and determined to be in compliance with all of the
provisions of the real estate transfer inspection code, as evidenced by an
inspection stamp issued by the Building Commissioner.
      2.   Fees: For condominium dwellings, there will be a fee of one-hundred
twenty-five ($125.00). There shall be a fee of one-hundred dollars ($100.00)
charged each additional reinspection thereof, payable prior to any
reinspection. No inspection stamp shall be issued without payment first being
received by the Village.
      3.   Required Documents before Issuance of A Transfer Inspection Stamp
for Condominium.
         (a)   An approved Property Transfer Inspection including notation as
to any required escrow deposit from the grantee or assignee regarding
completing code compliance repairs or replacements set forth in the inspection
report; and
         (b)   The escrow deposit required of any grantee or assignee assuming
responsibility for rectifying all code compliance issues identified in the
inspection report, which shall be paid by cashier's check or cash; and
         (c)   Payment in full by the grantor of all debts due and owing the
village including without limitation parking violations, code violations,
permit fees, etc; and
         (d)   A completed and signed New Property Owner Form of the grantee;
and
         (e)   A copy of the deed, assignment, or other instrument of
conveyance or transfer involved in the subject transaction, the names of the
grantor and grantee, and a legal description, permanent index number(s), and
common address of the property to which it relates; and
         (f)   A signed copy of the real estate transfer declaration filed
pursuant to Section 31-25 of the Real Estate Transfer Tax Law, 35 ILCS 200/31-
25;
   (D)   Temporary Certificate of Occupancy Requirement:
      1.   If such inspection establishes that a one-family dwelling, one-
family dwelling attached, a condominium dwelling, a structure used as a one-
family dwelling or a two-family dwelling does not comply with the provisions of
this Code, the Building Commissioner or his designee may issue an inspection
stamp and temporary certificate of occupancy for a period of no more than six
(6) months if the buyer, grantee, assignee, or new owner, his or her agent, or
person in charge of such dwelling shall deposit with the Building Commissioner
a sum not less than fifty percent (50%) of the reasonably estimated costs
necessary to complete the required repairs as outlined by the terms of the
temporary certificate of occupancy. Said deposit amount shall not be less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) and will not exceed the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) for residential dwelling units. In no case shall the
Building Commissioner issue an inspection stamp and/or a temporary certificate
of occupancy if he or she determines that there exist unsafe or life-
threatening conditions or that the dwelling is unfit for human habitation.
      2.   The Building Commissioner or designee may extend a temporary
certificate of occupancy for an additional period of up to six (6) months
provided that this new owner, agent, or person in charge of such dwelling has
completed or corrected fifty percent (50%) or more of the estimated costs of
all necessary and required repairs.
      3.   In the event the required corrections are not made by the new owner,
agent, or person in charge within the time specified by the Building
Department, the bond may be forfeited to the Village. Before receiving an
inspection stamp and temporary certificate of occupancy, a buyer, grantee, or
assignee must execute a checklist of required repairs at or prior to closing
and deposit the required escrow performance bond with the Village. The Village
will then issue the inspection stamp and a temporary occupancy permit.
   (E)   Uninhabitable Dwellings: If such inspection establishes that the one-
family dwelling, one-family attached dwelling, a condominium dwelling, or a
structure used as a one-family dwelling, or a two-family dwelling is
uninhabitable, the Building Commissioner or designee shall post such structure
"No Occupancy." Said posting shall remain until sufficient repairs are made to
grant a temporary occupancy permit.
   (F)   Penalty:
      1.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying or opposing the
enforcement of any other provisions of this Chapter upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not less than seventy-five ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation. Each day the violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      2.   In addition to the foregoing penalties, the Village may institute a
civil action against the violator to compel compliance with this Code. In the
event civil action is necessary, then the Village may recover reasonable
attorney fees and court costs from the violator.
   (G)   Disclaimer:
      1.   The Village does not warrant the condition of any property inspected
and shall not be responsible for any claims arising out of the property or the
condition thereof. The Village does not warrant that all deficiencies are
listed in the inspection report and does not warrant anything as to the
condition of the property or the liability thereof.
      2.   The issuance of an inspection stamp and/or temporary certificate of
occupancy shall not operate as a waiver of any right of the Village to
prosecute an owner or occupant of any real estate for any violation of any
Village ordinance. (Ord. 1997-06, 8-7-1997, eff. 10-1-1997; amd. Ord. 1997-15,
11-6-1997; Ord. 1998-01, 1-8-1998; Ord. 2024-16, 6-17-2024; Ord. 2025-11, 3-11-
2025)
7-21-4: APPEAL OF CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION DENIED OR REVOKED:
Any person whose application for a certificate of occupancy or an inspection
stamp has been denied or revoked under Section
7-21-2 or
7-21-3 of this Chapter or any person who is unable to comply with the
provisions of these Sections with regard to obtaining a certificate of
occupancy or inspection stamp prior to the issuance of a certificate or stamp
shall be granted an appeal to the BOCA Commission of the Village. Such notice
of appeal shall be filed within ten (10) days from the date of requirement to
comply or denial or revocation of a certificate of occupancy or inspection
stamp. The BOCA Commission may grant a variance from the requirements of these
codes only when the owner or manager can prove that:
   (A)   Compliance with requirements of these codes will place an extreme
hardship on the owner or manager; or
   (B)   Physical conditions make compliance impossible. (Ord. 1997-06, 8-7-
1997, eff. 10-1-1997)
7-21-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following deeds or trust documents shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter except as provided in this section:
   (A)   Deeds to or trust documents relating to: 1) property acquired by any
governmental body or from any governmental body; and 2) property or interests
transferred between governmental bodies.
   (B)   Deeds or trust documents that secure debt or other obligation.
   (C)   Deeds or trust documents, that, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify, or supplement a deed or trust document previously
recorded.
   (D)   Deeds or trust documents where the actual consideration is less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00), and there is no change of occupancy.
   (E)   Deeds or trust documents that release property that is a security for
a debt or other obligation. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-15-2001)
7-21-6: EXEMPTION STAMP:
   (A)   In lieu of the inspection stamp provided in section
7-21-3 of this chapter supra, an exemption stamp shall be issued provided that
an inspection by the village finds that the subject property is in conformance
with the existing zoning ordinance and meets one of the qualifications for
exemption provided above.
   (B)   No fee shall be charged for the application for the exemption stamp
and the related inspection. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-15-2001)
7-21-7: FILING FEES AND COSTS:
Applicants filing an appeal with the BOCA commission are responsible for all
fees, costs and expenses incidental to or connected with the appeal, and all
appeals shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee in the amount of
three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 2001-09, 11-15-2001)
7-21-8: BOCA COMMISSION COMPENSATION:
Each member of the BOCA commission shall receive as compensation for the
member's services the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each complete hearing
attended by the member. (Ord. 2001-09, 11-15-2001)
CHAPTER 22
REGULATION OF CONDOMINIUMS AND CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS
SECTION:
7-22-1: Definitions
7-22-2: Property Report; Required Contents
7-22-3: Required Property Report Disclaimer
7-22-4: Condominium Warranty Provisions
7-22-5: Condominium Code Inspections
7-22-6: Conversion Notification Requirements
7-22-7: Condo Conversion Requirements
7-22-8: Condominium Sales Contract; Rider Required
7-22-9: Condominium Development Meeting; Required
7-22-10: Violation; Penalties
7-22-11: State Statutory Tie-In Provision
7-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings, and are hereby defined
as follows:
AGENT: Any person, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation or any other
entity or combination of entities who represents or acts on behalf of a
developer in selling or offering to sell any condominium unit.
BOARD OF MANAGERS: The board of managers provided for and referred to in the
Illinois condominium property act.
CERTIFICATE OF CODE COMPLIANCE: A written instrument issued by the village as
evidence of condominium projects compliance with applicable housing code
standards of the village.
CLOSING OF A SALES CONTRACT: The operation of transferring ownership of a
condominium unit to the purchaser from the developer.
CODE INSPECTION REPORT: A written report issued by the village as evidence that
all units and common elements in a condominium project have been inspected for
compliance with applicable housing code standards of the village.
COMMON ELEMENTS: All portions of a condominium property except the condominium
units unless otherwise specified. Common elements shall also include limited
common elements.
CONDOMINIUM: A form of property established pursuant to the Illinois
condominium property act.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A plan by a developer to sell residential condominium
units in an existing building or building to be constructed or under
construction.
CONDOMINIUM UNIT OR UNIT: A separate three-dimensional (3-D) area identified as
such in the declaration and on the condominium plat. A condominium unit shall
include all improvements contained within the unit area except those excluded
in the declaration.
CONVERSION: The offering for sale by a developer or his agent of a condominium
unit that as rented by any person prior to the commencement of a condominium
project.
DECLARATION: An instrument by which a property is submitted to the provisions
of the Illinois condominium property act.
DEVELOPER: Any person or successors who undertake to develop a condominium
project either by conversion or new construction. A developer does not include
a corporation owning and operating a cooperative apartment building unless more
than six (6) units are to be sold to persons other than current stockholders of
the corporation.
DIRECTOR: The director of code enforcement of the village of River Grove,
Illinois, (building commissioner) or his authorized representative may be
hereinafter referred to as the director.
LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS: A portion of the common elements to be reserved for
the use of certain number of condominium units. Limited common elements shall
include, but not be limited to, balconies, terraces, patios and parking spaces
or facilities.
OFFERING: Any inducement, solicitation, advertisement, publication or
announcement by a developer to the general public to encourage the purchase of
a condominium unit or prospective condominium unit.
PERSON: Any natural individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, trustee or other legal entity
capable of holding title to real property.
PHYSICALLY DISABLED: A person unable to engage in any substantial gainful
activity by reason of any medically determinable physical, or mental impairment
which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected
to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months.
PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED: A person having an impairment which is expected to be
of long-continued and indefinite duration or which substantially impedes his
ability to live independently. Said impairment shall include blindness and
deafness.
PLAT: A plat or plats of survey of all the units and common elements in a
property submitted to the provisions of the Illinois condominium property act.
PROPERTY REPORT: A property report required by this chapter and in accordance
with the Illinois condominium property act.
PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER: A person who visits the condominium project site for the
purpose of inspection for possible purchase or who requests the property
report.
TENANT: A person who pays rent for the privilege of occupying an apartment.
(Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-2: PROPERTY REPORT; REQUIRED CONTENTS:
At least thirty (30) days prior to closing a sales contract on any condominium
unit in a condominium project, a developer shall prepare and file with the
village clerk a property report and shall certify by affidavit that all
disclosures are true to the best of his knowledge and belief, said report shall
contain at least the following information about the condominium project:
   (A)   A statement indicating the name and address of the developer of the
condominium property.
   (B)   A plat of survey showing the size and dimensions of the condominium
property.
   (C)   A legal description of the condominium units offered and the
proportionate percentage of individual ownership of said units.
   (D)   A description of the common elements and a statement of the percentage
ownership of the common elements applicable to the condominium units offered.
   (E)   A description of all existing and proposed facilities not included, or
not to be included, as part of the common elements.
   (F)   A statement of the following, in capital letters, when parking
facilities are not:
      1.   Part of the common elements, or
      2.   Divided as individual parking spaces among and designated as part of
the units of a condominium property:
PARKING FACILITIES ARE NOT OWNED BY THE UNIT OWNERS. IT SHALL BE THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONDOMINIUM UNIT OWNERS TO OBTAIN THEIR PARKING
FACILITIES. THE VILLAGE OF RIVER GROVE MAY PROHIBIT OVERNIGHT PARKING ON
STREETS.
   (G)   An identification of all drawings, architectural plans and other
suitable documents, including "as-built" drawings, setting forth information
for the location, maintenance and repair of condominium facilities and
equipment. Said identification shall be made to the extent these documents
exist and are available to the condominium board of managers.
   (H)   Project initiation and completion dates for any proposed construction,
renovation or conversion.
   (I)   Copies of the following legal documents that are binding or are to be
binding upon the condominium:
      1.   The declaration and plat of survey, prior to the recordation of the
declaration, however, a preliminary declaration and plat may be supplied,
provided they are accompanied by a written statement that the description of
units and percentage of ownership interest in common elements is preliminary
and may be changed in material respects upon the recording of the declaration
and plat.
      2.   The articles of incorporation or charter of the condominium
association, if any.
      3.   The bylaws and regulations of the condominium association.
   (J)   Disclosures of the existence of other legal documents that are binding
upon the condominium, including:
      1.   Any leases or real or personal property applicable to the
condominium.
      2.   The coverage and amounts of property insurance policies maintained
on the condominium building.
      3.   Any management contract, employment contract or any other contract
affecting the use:
         (a) The name of the management agency, if any, and the services the
agent will perform;
         (b) The length of term of any management contract and the charges and
circumstances, if any, under which the charges may be increased;
         (c) The conditions, if any, under which the contract may be canceled
or terminated; and
         (d) A statement disclosing any relationship between the developer and
the management firm.
   (K)   A statement of sale prices, terms and options for condominium units.
   (L)   A floor plan of the condominium unit offered for sale.
   (M)   A description of any appliances and other personal property included
with a unit offered for sale.
   (N)   A statement of the terms and conditions of sale, including estimated
itemized closing and settlement costs, taxes and expected special assessments
levied either by the condominium or an entity of government.
   (O)   A statement of the estimated operating budget for the condominium
project, projected for a period of one year from the expected date that control
of the project would pass to the board of managers, the projected operating
budget shall include:
      1.   Operating costs, such as costs for utilities, heating fuels,
janitorial services, trash and garbage disposal, ground and building
maintenance, security, maintenance or recreational and other facilities,
building insurance, elevator maintenance, sidewalk and street maintenance and
taxes. Said costs shall at least be shown in the aggregate and identified as
operating costs.
      2.   Management as the costs of management fees, accounting and
bookkeeping services and legal services. Said costs shall at least be shown in
the aggregate and identified as management costs.
      3.   Reserve costs, such as reserves for improvements, unexpected repair
work, and replacement and upkeep of common areas and facilities. Said costs
shall at least be shown in the aggregate and identified as reserve costs.
   (P)   A statement of the provisions the developer has made to cover the
proposed operations and maintenance budget in the event an insufficient number
of units are sold.
   (Q)   A report from a professional engineer or architect, licensed by the
state, describing the condition and expected useful life of the following
structural elements at least thirty (30) days prior to closing a sales
contract:
      1.   Roof.
      2.   Foundation.
      3.   External and supporting walls.
      4.   Mechanical, electric, plumbing, heating and structural elements.
      5.   All other common facilities.
To the extent possible, all said descriptions shall be provided together with
an estimate of repair and replacement costs at current market prices for those
elements which need repair or replacement.
   (R)   A statement setting forth the maximum number of occupants permitted by
village code for each dwelling unit contained within the condominium
development. Each such dwelling unit shall be clearly and accurately identified
so as to be easily referenced by a person reading the statement.
   (S)   A statement verifying the number of applications of roofing systems
existing on the building. If more than two (2) applications of roofing systems
exist, the developer shall provide an estimate of cost for a complete tear-off
of the old roofing systems and the application of a new roofing system.
   (T)   A statement indicating that the electrical service for each
condominium unit is in compliance with this chapter, and containing a list of
condominium units, identified by number, which indicates the size of the
electrical service in ampere for each unit.
   (U)   A statement indicating that the electrical service for the building,
based upon the per unit electrical service requirements of this chapter is
equal to or greater than the electrical service requirements set forth in the
adopted electrical code and setting forth service load calculations for the
condominium building which provide substantially the same information contained
in the service load calculation form for multiple- family dwellings included in
ordinance 2000-09 as exhibit A and available for inspection in the office of
the village clerk. (Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-3: REQUIRED PROPERTY REPORT DISCLAIMER:
Each property report shall contain on the first page the following statement,
conspicuously shown in capital letters:
THE VILLAGE OF RIVER GROVE MAKES NO JUDGMENT ON THE STATEMENTS IN THIS PROPERTY
REPORT. ORAL REPRESENTATIONS ARE NOT BINDING ON THE DEVELOPER. ONLY
REPRESENTATIONS MADE IN WRITING ARE BINDING ON THE DEVELOPER.
(Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-4: CONDOMINIUM WARRANTY PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Any developer of a property submitted subject to the provisions of the
Illinois condominium property act shall be required to provide a warranty
against any defects in the following property components:
      1.   Roof.
      2.   Foundation.
      3.   External and supporting walls.
      4.   Central heating plant.
   (B)   Said warranty shall cover the defects listed in this section for a
period of fifteen (15) months from the date control of the condominium property
passes to the board of managers.
   (C)   Repair or replacement of the defects listed in this section shall be
performed in a timely manner by the developer following notification by the
board of managers.
   (D)   Warranty coverage shall not include the cost of normal, routine
maintenance of the property components listed in this section or defects caused
by fire (not related to any breach of warranty), acts of God, vandalism or
negligence of a unit owner.
   (E)   To assure compliance with this section, the developer shall, at the
time of each closing, place in escrow with an Illinois licensed title insurance
company mutually acceptable to the village and the developer, sum equal to two
percent (2%) of the total of unit sale price. Said sum shall remain in escrow
for a period of not less than fifteen (15) months from the date control of the
condominium project passes to the board of managers and all interest earnings
on the sum held in escrow shall accrue solely to the developer. The developer
shall notify the village clerk by registered or certified mail that control of
the condominium project, has passed to the board of managers within five (5)
days of the passage of control. At least sixty (60) days prior to the
termination of the escrow period, the developer shall notify the board of
managers and the affected unit owners by certified mail of the date upon which
the escrow will terminate. If the required prior notice has been given and no
notice of claim by any unit owner is received within the fifteen (15) month
period, the funds in escrow shall be returned to the developer. If notice of
claim is received by the escrowee, funds shall be retained in escrow in the
amount of the claim until the claim is adjusted between the claimant and the
developer or until the validity of the claim is determined by court action.
(Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-5: CONDOMINIUM CODE INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   A developer submitting a property to the provisions of the Illinois
condominium property act shall file a notice of intent to convert with the
director of code enforcement of the village, within three (3) business days
from the date said notice is given to the tenants of the property. A code
inspection of the property, including all protected condominium units and
common elements and facilities, shall be scheduled by agreement between the
developer and the director when the notice of intent to convert is received by
the director.
   (B)   Any code violations and deficiencies detected during an inspection of
projected condominium units and common elements and facilities should be
corrected by the developer at least thirty (30) days prior to the closing of a
sales contract on any condominium unit, so as to provide the department of code
enforcement with adequate time to perform a reinspection of the premises and
prepare the inspection report and certificate for delivery to the prospective
purchaser by the developer at or prior to closing as required in subsection (F)
of this section. Said corrections shall be evidenced by a code inspection
report and certificate of code compliance, except as provided in subsection (C)
of this section, issued by the director.
   (C)   If substantial rehabilitation is being performed as part of a
conversion to condominium, the director may issue a partial certificate of code
compliance to permit the closing of sales contracts for those condominium units
in which rehabilitation is complete and all code violations are corrected.
Partial certificates also may be issued for common elements and facilities on
which rehabilitation is complete and all code violations are corrected.
However, prior to the issuance of a certificate of code compliance for the
entire property, a reinspection shall be made on all common elements and
facilities and units for which sales contracts have not been closed, any
recurrence of code violations in the common elements and facilities covered by
a partial certificate of code compliance shall be corrected by the developer at
the developer's expense unless control of the building has passed to the board
of managers.
   (D)   Until such time as all units in a condominium property are sold, the
director shall conduct annual building inspections of all common elements, all
common facilities, and at least ten percent (10%) (but never less than 1 unit)
of the unsold condominium units.
   (E)   Subsequent to the sale of all condominium units, the director shall
conduct an annual inspection of all the common elements and facilities of a
condominium property. The condominium building shall be subject to all
applicable village ordinances which may be enforced as to the developer, unit
owners, board of managers or any other person to whom the ordinances are
applicable.
   (F)   A developer shall be required to provide a prospective purchaser with
a copy of a code inspection report and certificate or partial certificate of
code compliance prior to or at the closing of a condominium unit sales
contract. (Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-6: CONVERSION NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   No less than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to recording the
declaration submitting property to the provisions of the Illinois condominium
property act, a developer shall give notice of said intent to record to all
persons who are tenants of the property on the date notice is given.
   (B)   Any person who was a tenant upon the date of receiving a notice of
intent to record a declaration of condominium and whose tenancy expires other
than for cause prior to one hundred twenty (120) days thereafter shall have the
right to extend his tenancy on the same terms and conditions and for the same
rental cost until the one hundred twenty (120) day period expires.
   (C)   An exception to the requirement of subsection (B) of this section
shall be provided for any tenant who is sixty five (65) years or over, or who
is physically handicapped or physically disabled. Any such tenant whose tenancy
expires other than for cause prior to one hundred eighty (180) days after
receiving a notice of intent to record a declaration of condominium shall have
the right to extend his tenancy on the same terms and conditions and for the
same rental cost until the one hundred eighty (180) day period expires.
   (D)   No rental lease shall be executed between an owner or his agent and a
prospective new tenant in a property for which notice of intent to record a
declaration of condominium has been given to existing tenants unless the
prospective new tenant initially is notified in writing of the intended
recordation. No lease shall be executed so as to stipulate an expiration date
prior to one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the lease becomes
effective. (Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-7: CONDO CONVERSION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Install and properly maintain approved fire extinguishers on the main
floor landings of each stairway.
   (B)   Install approved 110-volt with battery backup smoke detectors:
      1.   At the top of each stairway.
      2.   In each dwelling unit.
      3.   In each hallway or corridor depending on building design.
Before starting work, submit to the building department for approval plans
showing the location of all smoke detectors.
   (C)   Install RPZ backflow preventer valve on the incoming water service
line (or lines) immediately adjacent to the water meter.
   (D)   Install sufficient number of approved emergency lighting outlets to
enable the occupants to evacuate the building without difficulty upon failure
of the general illumination system. All battery units shall conform with
section 18-27-700.66 of the adopted electrical code.
Before starting work, submit to the building department for approval plans
showing the location of all emergency lights.
   (E)   Ground fault interrupted (GFI) receptacles required on all receptacles
located within six feet (6') of water faucets.
   (F)   All electrical outlets shall be grounded.
   (G)   A light fixture in all storage rooms or within fifteen feet (15') of
all storage areas defined by wire or other transparent wall material.
   (H)   A minimum of three (3) reasonably spaced, grounded electrical outlets
in each habitable room in addition to any other electrical fixture which is
located in any such room.
   (I)   Each dwelling unit in a condominium must have a minimum of 60 amp
electric service. Electric service of less than 60 amp must be replaced with
100 amp electric service.
   (J)   The electrical service to the condominium building shall be equal to
or greater than that required by the adopted electrical code for a building
which complies with the per unit electrical service requirements of subsection
(E) of this section. (Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-8: CONDOMINIUM SALES CONTRACT; RIDER REQUIRED:
The seller of every condominium unit within the village shall include a rider
to every sales contract for the sale of a condominium unit within the village
which must be separately executed by the seller and purchaser and which shall
read, in bold print, as follows:
The Seller has notified the Purchaser, and the Purchaser acknowledges receipt
of notification from the Seller that the Village of River Grove has enacted a
Condominium and Condominium Conversion Ordinance, setting forth regulations
which, among other things, provide BUYER PROTECTION BENEFITS included in the
enumerated Section of the Ordinance as follows:
7-22-2    At least 30 days prior to closing a sales contracts developer shall
prepare and file with the Village Clerk a property report and shall certify by
affidavit that all disclosures are true to the best of his knowledge and
belief.
7-22-2(R) The maximum number of occupants permitted by the Village Code for
this dwelling unit is listed in the Property Report required to be on file with
the Village Clerk.
7-22-4(A) to (E)   Condominium warranty provisions. A copy of the warranty
shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
7-22-5(A) A developer submitting a property to the provisions of the Illinois
Condominium Property Act shall file a notice of intent to convert with the
Director of Code Enforcement of the Village, within three (3) business days
from the date said notice is given to the tenants of the property. A code
inspection shall be scheduled.
7-22-5(B) Any code violations and deficiencies, should be corrected by the
developer at least 30 days prior to the closing of a sales contract on any
condominium unit to provide the department of Code Enforcement with adequate
time to perform a re-inspection of the premises and prepare the required report
and certificate. Said correction shall be evidenced by a code inspection report
and certificate, or partial certificate, of code compliance which shall be
presented by the developer to the Purchaser prior to or at closing.
7-22-11 The Purchaser has the right to rescind any sale in substantial
conformance with this or to seek damages therefor.
All of the above provisions must be satisfied prior to closing. If you have any
questions or need additional information, please call the Director of Code
Enforcement at (708) 456-8000.
(Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-9: CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT MEETING; REQUIRED:
The developer shall schedule an informational meeting at the village hall with
the director of code enforcement and director of community relations at least
ninety (90) days prior to filing the declaration in the case of new
construction or within thirty (30) days of providing notice to tenants of an
existing building of the developer's intention to file a declaration to convert
such building to a condominium building in accordance with the Illinois
condominium property act.
The purpose of the meeting will be for the village to provide the developer and
developer's agents with information concerning the application of the village's
fair housing and development laws and regulations to the developer's
condominium development. (Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
7-22-10: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the first
offense and not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in any one
hundred eighty (180) day period, provided, however, that all actions seeking
the imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject
to the provision of the Illinois civil practice act 1 . Repeated offenses in
excess of three (3) within any one hundred eighty (180) day period may also be
punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration in the county jail for a term not
to exceed six (6) months under the procedure set forth in section 1-2-1.1 of
the Illinois municipal code under the provision of the Illinois code of
criminal procedure in a separate proceeding.
Each failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter with respect to each
person shall be considered a separate offense. A separate and distinct offense
shall be regarded as committed each day on which such person shall continue or
permit any such violation.
The rights, obligations and remedies set forth in this chapter shall be
cumulative and in addition to any others available at law or in equity. The
village or any prospective purchaser, or owner of a unit may seek compliance
with any provision of this chapter and in addition shall have the right to
rescind any sale not in substantial conformance with this chapter or may seek
damages therefor. (Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
7-22-11: STATE STATUTORY TIE-IN PROVISION:
Except where modified or supplemented by this chapter, all provisions contained
in the Illinois condominium property act, as amended, shall apply to properties
submitted to the provision of said act. (Ord. 2000-09, 4-6-2000)
CHAPTER 23
SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCESS
SECTION:
7-23-1: Site Plan Review Committee
7-23-2: Status Of Building Permit Applications
7-23-3: Scope Of Site Plan Review
7-23-4: Site Plan Approval
7-23-5: Relationship Of Site Plan Review To The Zoning Ordinance
7-23-6: Records Of Site Plan Review
7-23-7: Consultants
7-23-1: SITE PLAN REVIEW COMMITTEE:
There is hereby created a site plan review committee (SPRC) consisting of the
director of economic development, the building commissioner, and the village
engineer. The members of the committee shall elect a chairperson of the SPRC.
All members of the committee shall appoint a member of his or her department to
act for the committee member on those occasions when the committee member is
unable to attend a meeting of the committee. The committee shall adopt its own
rules and regulations. All meetings of the committee shall be called by the
chairperson as needed. A quorum shall consist of two (2) members of the
committee (or their appointed substitute). (Ord. 2003-08, 12-4-2003)
7-23-2: STATUS OF BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Every application for a building permit for new construction, exterior
modification, and building addition shall be promptly forwarded by the building
commissioner or director of economic development to the site plan review
committee for the committee's review. Such review must be completed within
twenty (20) days of receipt by the village of the building permit application.
All applications for building permits shall be subject to site plan review.
   (B)   If, in the committee's judgment, the building permit application does
not contain sufficient information to enable the committee to properly
discharge its responsibilities, the committee may request additional
information from the applicant. In that event, the twenty (20) day period
referred to in subsection (A) of this section shall be suspended pending the
receipt of all information requested by the committee.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued by the village until site plan
approval has been granted, either by the committee or by the board of trustees,
as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2003-08, 12-4-2003)
7-23-3: SCOPE OF SITE PLAN REVIEW:
The site plan review committee, when evaluating site plans, will review the
following:
   (A)   Compatibility of land uses, buildings and structures.
   (B)   Protection and enhancement of community property values.
   (C)   Efficient use of land.
   (D)   Minimization of traffic, parking, safety hazards and overcrowding
problems.
   (E)   Minimization of environmental problems.
   (F)   Respond to off site utilities and service condition, thereby
minimizing the demand for additional municipal services, utilities and
infrastructure, when applicable.
   (G)   The arrangement of the structures on the site to:
      1.   Allow for the effective use of the proposed development.
      2.   Allow for the efficient use of land.
      3.   Ensure compatibility with development on adjacent property.
   (H)   The arrangement of open space and landscape improvements on the site
to create a desirable and functional environment for residents, patrons,
pedestrians and occupants.
   (I)   The organization of circulation systems to:
      1.   Minimize potentially dangerous traffic movements.
      2.   Separate pedestrian and auto circulation wherever practical.
      3.   Provide adequate and safe access to the site.
      4.   Minimize curb cuts.
   (J)   The design of off street parking lots or garages to:
      1.   Minimize adverse impacts on adjacent properties.
      2.   Promote logical and safe parking and internal circulation.
   (K)   The design of landscape improvements and related features to:
      1.   Create a logical transition to adjoining lots and developments.
      2.   Screen incompatible uses.
      3.   Minimize the visual impact of the development on adjacent sites and
roadways.
      4.   Utilize plant materials suitable to withstand the climatic
conditions of the village, and microclimate of the site.
      5.   Promote and maintain the village standards for village appearance
and development quality.
   (L)   Site illumination in terms of its design, location and proposed
installation in a manner that will minimize adverse impacts to adjacent
properties.
   (M)   Conformance of the proposed development to the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (N)   The relationship of the site plan to adopted land use policies, and
the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2003-08, 12-4-2003)
7-23-4: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
   (A)   If the site plan review committee approves a site plan, a building
permit may then be issued; provided that all other requirements of all other
applicable village codes and ordinances are satisfied.
   (B)   If the site plan review committee does not approve a site plan, the
applicant may appeal the committee's decision to the board of trustees. A
notice of appeal must be filed with the director of economic development no
later than fifteen (15) days after receipt by the applicant of the decision of
the site plan review committee. A failure by an applicant to file an appeal in
accordance with the foregoing provisions shall be deemed to constitute a
withdrawal by the applicant of the application for a building permit.
   (C)   The board of trustees shall act as promptly as practicable on any
appeal taken in connection with the proposed site plan. The board of trustees
shall approve or disapprove the site plan by action taken by a majority of the
board present at any meeting at which a quorum is present. If the board of
trustees approves the site plan, a building permit may then be issued, provided
that all other requirements of all other applicable village codes and
ordinances are satisfied. (Ord. 2003-08, 12-4-2003)
7-23-5: RELATIONSHIP OF SITE PLAN REVIEW TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE:
The procedures prescribed by this chapter are not intended to be a substitute
for, or to have any bearing upon, any procedures required under the zoning
ordinance of the village. If a proposed site plan involves the request for a
special use permit or a variation from the requirements of the zoning
ordinance, the site plan review committee may review the plan in advance of the
zoning proceedings and may make findings on the assumption that the special use
permit or variation will be granted. However, such findings shall not
constitute a position by the village or by any employee of the village in
support of the petitioners' application for a special use permit or a variation
and shall not be received in evidence in any proceedings before the zoning
board of appeals. The report of the site plan review committee in such cases
shall be submitted to the board of trustees concurrently with the report of the
zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2003-08, 12-4-2003)
7-23-6: RECORDS OF SITE PLAN REVIEW:
A record of all site plan review requests shall be kept on file by the Building
Commissioner and copies shall be available, on request, to any person, for a
fee specified by the Village. (Ord. 2003-08, 12-4-2003)
7-23-7: CONSULTANTS:
The Site Plan Review Committee, the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Village
Board may utilize the services of professional consultants for research,
investigation, and professional opinion, for assistance in arriving at a
recommendation or decision. The applicant whose request to the Site Plan Review
Committee or Zoning Board of Appeals requires the use of such professional
services, shall reimburse to the Village the cost as indicated in section
1-27-1 of this Code, within ten (10) days after the submission of the bill by
the Village. Consultants shall include, without limitation, the persons who
provide the Village with advice in the fields of engineering, law, planning,
design, traffic design, finance, and court reporters. (Ord. 2003-08, 12-4-2003;
amd. Ord. 2017-18, 11-16-2017)
CHAPTER 24
TENTS
SECTION:
7-24-1: Regulations
7-24-1: REGULATIONS:
Every tent hereafter erected shall comply with the provisions of this section:
   (A)   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, a "tent" is defined as
a portable structure, including sunscreens, with or without walls of canvas or
other like material, covered with similar materials and supported by poles,
stakes and/or ropes.
   (B)   Time Limitations: No tent shall be maintained on a permanent or
continuous basis, and all tents erected shall be subject to the following time
limitations:
      1.   No tent shall be erected in the front yard of any property between
October 1 and April 30 of any year.
      2.   No tent located in the front yard shall be erected for more than
seven (7) consecutive days between May 1 and September 30 of any year.
      3.   Tents located in a location other than the front yard of a property
may be erected on or after April 1 of any year and shall be dismantled on or
before October 31 of any year.
   (C)   Storage: Any motor vehicle stored under a cover or tent must display
current valid license plates and a valid village vehicle sticker, and said
license plates and vehicle sticker must be readily observable.
   (D)   Location: All erected tents must be located behind the building lot
line for each property and, at a minimum, at least fifteen feet (15') behind
the front lot line of the property where the tent is erected. (Ord. 2005-12, 8-
4-2005)
CHAPTER 25
REGISTRATION OF DEFAULTED MORTGAGE AND VACANT PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-25-1: Purpose And Intent
7-25-2: Definitions
7-25-3: Applicability And Jurisdiction
7-25-4: Establishment Of A Registry
7-25-5: Inspection And Registration Of Defaulted Mortgage
7-25-6: Inspection And Registration Of Real Property That Is Not Subject To A
Mortgage In Default
7-25-7: Maintenance Requirements
7-25-8: Security Requirements
7-25-9: Provisions Supplemental
7-25-10: Public Nuisance
7-25-11: Additional Authority
7-25-12: Opposing, Obstructing Enforcement Officer; Penalty
7-25-13: Immunity Of Enforcement Officer
7-25-14: Penalties
7-25-15: Amendments
7-25-16: Severability
7-25-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of the Village President and Board of Trustees to
establish a process to address the deterioration, crime, and decline in value
of Village neighborhoods caused by property with defaulted mortgages located
within the Village, and to identify, regulate, limit and reduce the number of
these properties located within the Village. It has been determined that owner-
occupied structures are generally better maintained when compared to vacant
structures, even with a diligent off-site property owner. Vacant structures or
structures owned by individuals who are economically strained and unable to
meet their mortgage obligations are often not properly or diligently
maintained, which contribute to blight, declined property values, and have a
negative impact on social perception of the residential areas where they are
located. It is the further intent of the Village President and Board of
Trustees to establish a registration program as a mechanism to help protect
neighborhoods from becoming blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance
of properties that are in default or defaulted, and to provide a mechanism to
avert foreclosure actions through timely intervention, education, or counseling
of property owners. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
DEFAULT: Shall mean that the mortgagor has not complied with the terms of the
mortgage on the property, or the promissory note, or other evidence of the
debt, referred to in the mortgage.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Shall mean any law enforcement officer, building official,
zoning inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, fire inspector, building inspector,
or other person authorized by the Village to enforce the applicable code(s).
EVIDENCE OF VACANCY: Shall mean any condition that on its own, or combined with
other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the
property is vacant. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to:
overgrown and/or dead vegetation; past due utility notices and/or disconnected
utilities; accumulation of trash, junk or debris; abandoned vehicles, auto
parts and/or materials; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items
consistent with habitation or occupancy; the presence of an unsanitary,
stagnant swimming pool; the accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/
or mail; statements by neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or government
agents; and/or the presence of boards over doors, windows or other openings in
violation of applicable code.
FORECLOSURE OR FORECLOSURE ACTION: Shall mean the legal process by which a
mortgagee, or other lien holder, terminates or attempts to terminate a property
owner's equitable right of redemption to obtain legal and equitable title to
the real property pledged as security for a debt or the real property subject
to the lien. The legal process is not concluded until the property obtained by
the mortgagee, lien holder, or their designee, by certificate of title, or any
other means, is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an arm's length
transaction to satisfy the debt or lien.
MORTGAGEE: Shall mean the creditor, including but not limited to, trustees;
mortgage servicing companies; lenders in a mortgage agreement; any agent,
servant, or employee of the creditor; any successor in interest; or any
assignee of the creditor's rights, interests or obligations under the mortgage
agreement; or any other person or entity with the legal right to foreclose on
the real property, excluding governmental entities.
OWNER: Shall mean every person, entity, or mortgagee, who alone or severally
with others, has legal or equitable title to any real property as defined by
this chapter; has legal care, charge, or control of any such property; is in
possession or control of any such property; and/or is vested with possession or
control of any such property. The property manager shall not be considered the
owner.
PROPERTY MANAGER: Shall mean any party designated by the owner as responsible
for inspecting, maintaining and securing the property as required in this
chapter.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall mean any residential or commercial land and/or buildings,
leasehold improvements and anything affixed to the land, or portion thereof
identified by a property parcel identification number, located in the Village
limits.
REGISTRABLE PROPERTY: Shall mean:
   (A)   Any real property located in the Village, whether vacant or occupied,
that is encumbered by a mortgage in default, is subject to an ongoing
foreclosure action by the mortgagee or trustee, has been the subject of a
foreclosure action by a mortgagee or trustee and a judgement has been entered,
or has been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred
to the beneficiary of a mortgage involved in the foreclosure and any properties
transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale. The designation of a
"default/foreclosure" property as "registrable" shall remain in place until
such time as the property is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an
arm's length transaction or the foreclosure action has been dismissed and any
default on the mortgage has been cured; or
   (B)   Any property that is vacant for more than thirty (30) days or any
cancellation of utility or service, whichever occurs first.
REGISTRY: Shall mean a web-based electronic database of searchable real
property records, used by the Village to allow mortgagees and owners the
opportunity to register properties and pay applicable fees as required in this
chapter.
SEMI-ANNUAL REGISTRATION: Shall mean six (6) months from the date of the first
action that requires registration, as determined by the Village, or its
designee, and every subsequent six (6) months. The date of the initial
registration may be different than the date of the first action that required
registration.
UTILITIES AND SERVICES: Shall mean any utility and/or service that is essential
for a building to be habitable and/or perform a service necessary to comply
with all Village codes. This includes, but is not limited to, electrical, gas,
water, sewer, lawn maintenance, pool maintenance, and snow removal.
VACANT: Shall mean any parcel of land in the Village that contains any building
or structure that is not lawfully occupied. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-3: APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION:
This chapter applies to defaulted and vacant property within the Village. (Ord.
2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF A REGISTRY:
Pursuant to the provisions of sections
7-25-5 and
7-25-6 of this chapter, the Village, or its designee, shall establish a
registry cataloging each registrable property within the Village, containing
the information required by this chapter. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-5: INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION OF DEFAULTED MORTGAGE:
   (A)   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property located within the
Village shall perform an inspection of the property upon it being in default or
defaulted by the mortgagor or prior to the issuance of a notice of default.
   (B)   Property inspected pursuant to subsection (A) of this section that
remains in default or defaulted, shall be inspected every thirty (30) days by
the mortgagee or mortgagee's designee. If an inspection shows a change in the
property's occupancy status the mortgagee shall, within ten (10) days of that
inspection, update the occupancy status of the property registration.
   (C)   Within ten (10) days of the date any mortgagee declares its mortgage
to be in default or defaulted, the mortgagee shall register the real property
with the Village registry, and, at the time of registration, indicate whether
the property is vacant, and if so, shall designate in writing a property
manager to inspect, maintain and secure the real property subject to the
mortgage in default or defaulted. A separate registration is required for each
defaulted property.
   (D)   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain at a
minimum the name of the mortgagee, the mailing address of the mortgagee, e-mail
address, telephone number and name of the property manager and said person's
address, e-mail address, and telephone number.
   (E)   At the time of initial registration, each registrant shall pay a non-
refundable semi-annual registration fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for
each defaulted property. Subsequent semi-annual registrations of defaulted
properties and fees in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00) are due
within ten (10) days of the expiration of the previous registration. Said fees
shall be used to offset the costs of: 1) registration and registration
enforcement, 2) code enforcement and mitigation related to defaulted
properties, 3) post-closing counseling and foreclosure intervention limited to
owner-occupied persons in default, which may not include cash and mortgage
modification assistance, and 4) for any related purposes as may be adopted in
the policy set forth in this chapter. Said fees shall be deposited to a special
account in the Village's Finance Department dedicated to the cost of
implementation and enforcement of this chapter, and fulfilling the purpose and
intent of this chapter. None of the funds provided for in this section shall be
utilized for the legal defense of foreclosure actions.
   (F)   Each individual property on the registry that has been registered for
twelve (12) months or more prior to the effective date shall have thirty (30)
days to renew the registration and pay the three hundred dollar ($300.00) semi-
annual registration fee. Properties registered less than twelve (12) months
prior to the effective date shall renew the registration every six (6) months
from the expiration of the original registration renewal date and shall pay the
three hundred dollar ($300.00) semi-annual registration fee.
   (G)   If the defaulted mortgage and/or servicing on a property is sold or
transferred, the new mortgagee is subject to all the terms of this chapter.
Within ten (10) days of the transfer, the new mortgagee shall register the
property or update the existing registration. The previous mortgagee(s) will
not be released from the responsibility of paying all previous unpaid fees,
fines, and penalties accrued during that mortgagee's involvement with the
defaulted property.
   (H)   If the mortgagee sells or transfers the defaulted property in a non-
arm's length transaction to a related entity or person, the transferee is
subject to all the terms of this chapter. Within ten (10) days of the transfer,
the transferee shall register the property or update the existing registration.
Any and all previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties, regardless of who the
mortgagee was at the time registration was required, including but not limited
to unregistered periods during the foreclosure process, are the responsibility
of the transferee and are due and payable with the updated registration. The
previous mortgagee will not be released from the responsibility of paying all
previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued during that mortgagee's
involvement with the defaulted property.
   (I)   If the defaulted property is not registered, or the registration fee
is not paid within thirty (30) days of when the registration or renewal is
required pursuant to this section, a late fee equivalent to ten percent (10%)
of the semi-annual registration fee shall be charged for every thirty-day
period, or portion thereof, the property is not registered and shall be due and
payable with the registration.
   (J)   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where title is transferred to the mortgagee as well as
any properties transferred to the mortgagee under a deed in lieu of foreclosure
or by any other legal means.
   (K)   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the semi-
annual registration requirement, and the inspection, security, and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the property remains defaulted.
   (L)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
register or to modify the registration to reflect a change of circumstances as
required by this chapter is a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the Village.
   (M)   If any property is in violation of this chapter the Village may take
the necessary action to ensure compliance with and/or place a lien on the
property for the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost
incurred to the property into compliance. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-6: INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION OF REAL PROPERTY THAT IS NOT SUBJECT TO A
MORTGAGE IN DEFAULT:
   (A)   Any owner of vacant property located within the Village shall within
ten (10) days after the property becomes vacant, or within ten (10) days after
assuming ownership of the property, whichever is later, register the real
property with the Village registry.
   (B)   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain at a
minimum the name of the owner, the mailing address of the owner, e-mail
address, and telephone number of the owner, and if applicable, the name and
telephone number of the property manager and said person's address, e-mail
address, and telephone number.
   (C)   At the time of initial registration each registrant shall pay a non-
refundable semi-annual registration fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for
each vacant property. Subsequent semi- annual registrations of vacant
properties and fees in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00) are due
within ten (10) days of the expiration of the previous registration. Said fees
shall be used to offset the costs of: 1) registration and registration
enforcement, 2) code enforcement and mitigation related to vacant properties,
and 3) for any related purposes as may be adopted in the policy set forth in
this chapter. Said fees shall be deposited to a special account in the
Village's department dedicated to the cost of implementation and enforcement of
this chapter, and fulfilling the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (D)   Each individual property on the registry that has been registered for
twelve (12) months or more prior to the effective date shall have thirty (30)
days to renew the registration and pay the three hundred dollar ($300.00) semi-
annual registration fee. Properties registered less than twelve (12) months
prior to the effective date shall renew the registration every six (6) months
from the expiration of the original registration renewal date and shall pay the
three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   (E)   If the property is sold or transferred, the new owner is subject to
all the terms of this chapter. Within ten (10) days of the transfer, the new
owner shall register the vacant property or update the existing registration.
The previous owner(s) will not be released from the responsibility of paying
all previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued during that owner's
involvement with the vacant property.
   (F)   If the vacant property is not registered, or either the registration
fee or the semi-annual registration fee is not paid within thirty (30) days of
when the registration or semi-annual registration is required pursuant to this
section, a late fee shall be equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the semi-annual
registration fee and shall be charged for every thirty (30) day period, or
portion thereof, the property is not registered and shall be due and payable
with the registration. This section shall apply to the initial registration and
registrations required by subsequent owners of the vacant property.
   (G)   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the semi-
annual registration requirement, and the inspection, security, and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the property is vacant.
   (H)   Failure of the owner to properly register or to modify the
registration to reflect a change of circumstances as required by this chapter
is a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to enforcement by any of
the enforcement means available to the Village.
   (I)   If any property is in violation of this chapter the Village may take
the necessary action to ensure compliance with and place a lien on the property
for the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost incurred to
the property to bring it into compliance.
   (J)   Properties registered as a result of this section are not required to
be registered again pursuant to the defaulted mortgage property section of this
chapter. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-7: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be kept free of weeds,
overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any
accumulation of newspaper circulars, flyers, notices, except those required by
Federal, State or local law, discarded personal items including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material,
or any other items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (B)   Registrable property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior structure.
   (C)   Front, side, and rear yards, including landscaping, of registrable
property shall be maintained in accordance with the applicable code(s) at the
time registration is required.
   (D)   Registrable yard maintenance shall include, but not be limited to,
grass, ground covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative
rock or bark or artificial turf/sod. Acceptable maintenance of yards and/or
landscape shall not include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar
material.
   (E)   Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering,
irrigation, cutting and mowing of required ground cover or landscape and
removal of all trimmings.
   (F)   Pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and clear
of pollutants and debris and shall comply with the regulations set forth in the
applicable code(s).
   (G)   Failure of the mortgagee, owner, and transferees to properly maintain
the property as required by this chapter may result in a violation of the
applicable code(s) and issuance of a citation or notice of violation in
accordance with the applicable code of the Village. Pursuant to a finding and
determination by the Village Sheriff, Magistrate or a court of competent
jurisdiction, the Village may take the necessary action to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (H)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be maintained in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the Village. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-8: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Properties subject to these sections shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (B)   A "secure manner" shall include, but not be limited to, the closure
and locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may
allow a child to access the interior of the property or structure. Broken
windows, doors, gates, and other openings of such size that may allow a child
to access the interior of the property or structure must be repaired. Broken
windows shall be secured by re-glazing of the window.
   (C)   If a property is registrable, and the property has become vacant or
blighted, a property manager shall be designated by the mortgagee and/or owner
to perform the work necessary to bring the property into compliance with the
applicable code(s), and the property manager must perform regular inspections
to verify compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and any other
applicable laws.
   (D)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be secured in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the Village.
   (E)   When a property subject to this chapter becomes vacant, it shall be
posted with the name and twenty four (24) hour contact telephone number of the
property manager. The property manager shall be available to be contacted by
the Village Monday through Friday between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M., legal holidays excepted. The sign shall be placed in a
window facing the street and shall be visible from the street. The posting
shall be no less than eighteen inches (18") by twenty four inches (24") and
shall be of a font that is legible from a distance of forty five feet (45').
The posting shall contain the following language with supporting information:
THIS PROPERTY IS MANAGED BY    .
AND IS INSPECTED ON A REGULAR BASIS ON    
   .
THE PROPERTY MANAGER    
CAN BE CONTACTED BY TELEPHONE AT    .
OR BY EMAIL AT    .
   (F)   The posting required in subsection (E) of this section shall be placed
on the interior of a window facing the street to the front of the property so
that it is visible from the street, or secured to the exterior of the building/
structure facing the street to the front of the property so that it is visible
from the street or if no such area exists, on a stake of sufficient size to
support the posting in a location that is at all times visible from the street
to the front of the property but not readily accessible to vandals. Exterior
posting shall be constructed of and printed with weather-resistant materials.
   (G)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
inspect and secure a property subject to this chapter, and post and maintain
the signage noted in this section, is a violation and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the Village. The
Village may take the necessary action to ensure compliance with this section,
and recover costs and expenses in support thereof. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-9: PROVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAL:
The provisions of this chapter are cumulative with and in addition to other
available remedies. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the
Village from collecting on fees, fines, and penalties in any lawful manner; or
enforcing its codes by any other means, including, but not limited to,
injunction, abatement, or as otherwise provided by law or ordinance. (Ord.
2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-10: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
All registrable property is at risk of being a public nuisance and if vacant or
blighted can constitute a public nuisance, the abatement of which pursuant to
the police power is hereby declared to be necessary for the health, welfare,
and safety of the residents of the Village. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-11: ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY:
   (A)   If the Enforcement Officer has reason to believe that a property
subject to the provisions of this chapter is posing a serious threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare, the Code Enforcement Officer may
temporarily secure the property at the expense of the mortgagee or owner, and
may bring the violations before the code enforcement, Board of Trustees or
special Magistrate as soon as possible to address the conditions of the
property. Nothing herein shall limit the Village from abating any nuisance or
unsafe condition by any other legal means available to it.
   (B)   The Sheriff, code enforcement, Board of Trustees or special Magistrate
shall have the authority to require the mortgagee or owner affected by this
section, to implement additional maintenance and/or security measures
including, but not limited to, securing any and all doors, windows or other
openings, employment of an on-site security guard or other measures as may be
reasonably required to help prevent further decline of the property.
   (C)   If there is a finding that the condition of the property is posing a
serious threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, then the Sheriff,
code enforcement, Board of Trustees or special Magistrate may direct the
Village to abate the violations and charge the mortgagee or owner with the cost
of the abatement.
   (D)   If the mortgagee or owner does not reimburse the Village for the cost
of temporarily securing the property, or of any abatement directed by the
Sheriff, Code Enforcement Officer, code enforcement, Board of Trustees or
special Magistrate, within thirty (30) days of the Village sending the
mortgagee or owner the invoice then the Village may lien the property with such
cost, along with an administrative fee as determined in the Village's Fee
Ordinance to recover the administrative personnel services. In addition to
filing a lien the Village may pursue financial penalties against the mortgagee
or owner.
   (E)   The Village may contract with an entity to implement this chapter,
and, if so, any reference to the Enforcement Officer herein shall include the
entity the Village contracts with for that purpose. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-12: OPPOSING, OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; PENALTY:
Whoever opposes, obstructs or resists any Enforcement Officer or any person
authorized by the Enforcement Officer in the discharge of duties as provided in
this chapter shall be punishable as provided in the applicable code(s) or a
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-13: IMMUNITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
Any Enforcement Officer or any person authorized by the Village to enforce the
sections of this chapter shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal,
for reasonable, good faith entry upon real property while in the discharge of
duties imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-14: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, a violation of this chapter is
declared unlawful. Any such violation shall be subject to title XI, chapter 1
of this Code. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-15: AMENDMENTS:
Registration fees and penalties outlined in this chapter may be modified by
resolution, administrative order, or an amendment to this chapter, passed and
adopted by the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
7-25-16: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Village that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this chapter are severable, and
if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this chapter shall be
declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this
chapter. (Ord. 2019-10, 4-4-2019)
CHAPTER 26
FAIR HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
7-26-1: Title
7-26-2: Policy Of Nondiscrimination
7-26-3: Findings
7-26-4: Severability
7-26-5: Definitions
7-26-6: Prohibited Acts; Exceptions
7-26-7: Human Relations Commission
7-26-8: Fair Housing Review Board
7-26-9: Administrator
7-26-10: Complaints And Enforcement
7-26-11: Counseling
7-26-12: Solicitation
7-26-13: Penalty
7-26-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the FAIR HOUSING CODE. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-2: POLICY OF NONDISCRIMINATION:
It is declared to be the public policy of the village to promote fair housing,
assure freedom from discrimination and the effects of discrimination on account
of race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, marital
status or physical or mental handicap, and to secure its citizens the economic,
social and professional benefits of living in a diverse, integrated society.
(Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-3: FINDINGS:
The corporate authorities hereby find:
   (A)   The economic stability of the village and the welfare of its citizens
are directly dependent upon long term population diversity and integration.
   (B)   That long term population diversity and integration are threatened by
discriminatory acts and unlawful housing practices.
   (C)   That discriminatory acts and unfair housing practices violate the
rights of individuals to choose where to live and raise their families.
   (D)   That discriminatory acts and unfair housing practices contribute to
the formation and preservation of a segregated neighborhood, thereby affecting
the quality of daily life of the residents of the village.
   (E)   That discriminatory acts and unfair housing practices interfere with
the achievement of long term population diversity and integration, thereby
depriving the citizens of the benefits of interracial, interreligious and
intercultural association.
   (F)   That when real estate solicitations are conducted at the homes of
residents who do not desire to sell, list or rent their dwellings, such
solicitations invade the privacy of these residents, and apply unwarranted
pressure on these residents to move, threatening the village's long term
population, and integration. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of this
chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this chapter not specifically included in the judgment. If any court of
competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application of any provision
of this chapter to any person or circumstance, such judgment shall not affect
the application of the provision to any other person or circumstance not
specifically included in the judgment. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the corporate authorities of the
village to administer the provisions of this chapter.
BOARD: The fair housing review board.
COMMISSION: The human relations commission.
DISCRIMINATE: To act or fail to act based solely or in part on consideration
related to race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex,
marital status, physical and mental handicap, and, with respect to rentals, the
presence in a family of a child or children under the age of fourteen (14)
(such considerations may hereinafter also be referred to as "a discriminatory
reason" or "discriminatory reasons").
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
LEASE: Includes any sublease, assignment or rental and any contract to enter
into any of the foregoing.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any beneficial
interest in, a dwelling, or who holds legal or equitable title to, shares of,
or any beneficial interest in, an entity which owns a dwelling.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, or fiduciaries.
REAL ESTATE AGENT: Any person who for consideration negotiates or attempts to
negotiate the purchase, sale, rental or listing of a dwelling or interest
therein, including, but not limited to, those licensed or required to be
licensed under the Illinois real estate license act, 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 454/1-1 et seq.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: The purchase or sale of fee or equitable title to, or
a beneficial interest in, or rental or lease of, any dwelling, or an option to
do any of the foregoing, or any negotiation, or listing agreement in connection
therewith.
SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any communication by or on behalf of a real estate
agent with the owner or occupant of a dwelling:
(A)Which is intended to induce the sale, rental or listing for sale or rental
of such dwelling;
(B)Which is intended to offer or promote services in connection with sales,
rental or listing of such dwelling; and
(C)Which is carried out by means of:
1.In person contacts at the dwelling;
2.Written material mailed or delivered directly to the dwelling, such as direct
mail, leaflets or pamphlets; or
3.Telephonic contacts with owners or occupants of the dwelling.
Solicit or solicitation shall not refer to communication carried out by means
of print or electronic media of general circulation, such as a newspaper,
radio, television or the yellow pages. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-6: PROHIBITED ACTS; EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful:
      1.   To refuse to sell or rent, or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or
rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person for
discriminatory reasons.
      2.   To discriminate in connection with the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provisions of services or
facilities in connection therewith.
      3.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or
rental of the dwelling that indicates that the sale or rental of the dwelling
will involve any discrimination, or preference or limitation based on
discriminatory reasons, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation
or discrimination.
      4.   To represent to any person for discriminatory reasons that any
dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is
in fact so available.
      5.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry
into the neighborhood or the community of a person or persons of a particular
race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, sex, age, marital status, physical or
mental handicap, or national origin.
      6.   For any bank, savings and loan association, insurance company, or
other organization or, person whose business consists in whole or in part of
lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise providing
financial assistance for real estate transactions or the construction,
improvement, repair or maintenance of a dwelling, to discriminate by denying or
delaying the processing of an application for such financial assistance, or to
discriminate in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration, or other
terms and conditions of such financial assistance.
      7.   To discriminate in appraising the value of real estate or in the
sale of insurance in connection with a real estate transaction.
      8.   To enter into any agreement which requires or contemplates
discrimination prohibited by this chapter.
      9.   For any real estate agent to influence or attempt to influence any
person by any words or acts, in connection with the viewing, buying or leasing
of a dwelling, so as to promote, or tend to promote, the continuance or
maintenance of segregated housing, or so as to retard, obstruct or discourage
integrated housing on or in any street, block or neighborhood of the
municipality.
      10.   To perform any act of discrimination with the intention or effect
of restricting or limiting the housing choice of any person.
      11.   To aid, or abet, acts performed in violation of this chapter.
      12.   To coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any person in the
exercise of enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised or enjoyed, or
on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person, in the exercise
or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this chapter or by any state
or federal law concerning fair housing. Provided that nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to prohibit special outreach efforts to ensure that persons
of minority groups are fully informed of available dwelling opportunities in
areas of present or, prospective majority group concentration, or to ensure,
that persons of the majority group are fully informed of available dwelling
opportunities in areas of present or prospective minority group concentration.
   (B)   Exceptions:
      1.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such person, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, age, creed, ancestry, sex, marital status or physical or mental
handicap.
      2.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to members and their guests.
      3.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit restricting the sale or
rental of dwelling units to senior citizens.
      4.   Nothing in this chapter shall require a homeowner to offer real
estate for sale or lease to the public at large.
      5.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any person from maintaining
records in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-
2012)
7-26-7: HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION:
   (A)   Creation: There is hereby created a human relations commission
(hereinafter "commission") consisting of three (3) members appointed by the
president with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. All members
shall be residents of the village. From among the members of the commission,
the chairman of the commission shall be appointed annually by the president
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. Any other officers that
the commission may establish shall be elected annually by a vote of a majority
of the commission. At the first regular meeting of the commission, lots will be
drawn whereby it will be determined that in the first term of appointment, one
member will serve three (3) years, one member will serve two (2) years and one
member will serve one year. Subsequent terms of appointment shall be for three
(3) years. No member shall serve more than three (3) consecutive full three (3)
year terms.
   (B)   Purpose: The purpose of the commission shall be to promote a truly
open community with long term population diversity and integration and to
stimulate the improvement of human relations among all persons, so as to
provide all citizens with an equal opportunity to grow, participate in, and
share to the best of their ability the economic, educational, political and
social benefits of the community.
   (C)   Duties: The duties of the commission shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Advising elected officials and staff on human relations matters;
      2.   Serving as an educational arm of the municipality in the field of
human relations to all persons, groups, and institutions in the community;
      3.   Acting as a bridge between municipal governments, citizens, and
citizens' groups;
      4.   Performing as a catalyst in improving human relations and equitable
living conditions;
      5.   Holding hearings and carrying on research and studies in the field
of human relations in an effort to equalize opportunities and, lessen prejudice
and discrimination;
      6.   Performing an advocacy role by initiating complaints of
discrimination and by assisting and encouraging persons in the pursuit of their
rights under this chapter;
      7.   Gathering and providing for the exchange of information relative to
the provisions of this chapter among real estate brokers and salesmen, lenders,
developers, employers, village officials and community groups within and
without the village;
      8.   Counseling of prospective residents in accordance with the policy
and provisions of this chapter and maintaining a list of counseling services.
   (D)   Meetings: The commission shall meet quarterly and adopt its own rules
of procedure, which shall become effective only upon approval by the board of
trustees. All meetings shall be held in accordance with such rules. The
commission shall submit to the village an annual report and such special
reports as it may from time to time deem advisable. The commission shall
perform such further duties as may be assigned by the president and board of
trustees of the village.
   (E)   Subpoena Power: When authorized by the president and board of
trustees, the commission may require by subpoena the attendance and testimony
of witnesses and the production of documents, and its subpoena power may be
enforced by proper petition to a court of competent jurisdiction. The chairman
of the commission is authorized to sign such subpoenas and to administer oaths
and is required to provide for the preservation of all testimony taken. (Ord.
2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-8: FAIR HOUSING REVIEW BOARD:
   (A)   Creation: There is hereby created a fair housing review board
(hereinafter "board") consisting of three (3) members appointed by the
president of the village with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
All members shall be residents of the village. From among the members of the
board, the chairman of the board shall be appointed annually by the president
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. Any other offices which
the board may establish shall be elected annually by a vote of a majority of
the board. At the first regular meeting of the board, lots will be drawn
whereby it will be determined that in the first term of appointment one member
will serve three (3) years, one member will serve two (2) years and one member
will serve one year. Subsequent terms of appointment shall be for three (3)
years. No person shall simultaneously serve as a member of the board and of the
human relations commission of the village.
   (B)   Duties: The board's duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   With the approval of the board of trustees, adopting, promulgating,
amending and rescinding rules and regulations or procedures for handling
complaints of discrimination in housing;
      2.   Receiving and reviewing complaints charging discrimination in
housing, seeking conciliation of such complaints in compliance with this
chapter;
      3.   Holding hearings and making findings of fact and making
recommendations in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Powers: The board shall have power to:
      1.   Administer oaths and take sworn testimony at hearing;
      2.   Subpoena witnesses and pertinent documents and its subpoena power
may be enforced by proper petition to any court of competent jurisdiction;
      3.   Issue orders and impose fines and penalties;
      4.   Require all persons subject to the application of this chapter to
maintain such records as may be necessary to demonstrate compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Open Meetings: All board meetings shall be open to the public except
those for the purpose of conciliating complaints of discrimination. (Ord. 2012-
02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-9: ADMINISTRATOR:
An administrator of this chapter shall be appointed by the president of the
village with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The
administrator, who may hold another position in the village, shall have such
duties and responsibilities as are provided in this chapter and additionally as
may be provided by the village. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-10: COMPLAINTS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of this chapter may
file a verified complaint with the administrator within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the alleged violation. The complaint shall be submitted, on the
form set forth below, to be provided by the clerk of the village and shall
contain a short and plain statement of the alleged violation, the name and
address (if known) of the person charged (respondent) and shall be signed by
the aggrieved party (complainant) or by the human relations commission by its
chairman. The aggrieved party may be assisted in the filing of a complaint by a
member or members of the human relations commission. A complaint may be amended
at any time.
   (B)   Within thirty (30) days after the complaint is filed, the
administrator shall serve a copy of the complaint personally or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, on the person charged and shall furnish copies
thereof to the fair housing review board.
   (C)   Within thirty (30) days after the complaint is filed, the
administrator shall review the complaint to determine whether the allegations
contained herein, if true, would constitute a violation of this chapter. If the
administrator determines that they would, he shall order a hearing to be held
on the complaint.
   (D)   If the administrator determines that the allegations of a complaint,
if true, would not constitute a violation of this chapter, the board shall
review that determination within thirty (30) days after it is made. If the
board decides that the allegations do not constitute a violation, it shall
order that the complaint be dismissed. If the board decides that the
allegations do constitute a violation, it shall order that a hearing be held on
the merits of the complaint. The board shall render its decision in writing,
setting forth its reasons therefor, and shall immediately serve a copy of its
decision on the complainant and respondent, either personally or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
   (E)   If the administrator or the board orders that a hearing should be held
on the merits of the complaint, the complainant and respondent shall also be
served, either personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested, with
a notice of hearing, setting forth the date, time and place of such hearing.
This hearing shall be held within sixty (60) days after the administrator or
the board orders the hearing.
   (F)   Prior to the hearing, the board shall set a time and place for a
conciliation conference and shall notify complainant and respondent of same. At
the conciliation conference, the administrator shall attempt to resolve the
dispute between the parties.
   (G)   If it is not possible to conciliate the complaint before the date set
for the hearing, or if the respondent fails to appear at the conciliation
conference, the board shall proceed to hold the hearing at the date and time
designated. This hearing shall be open to the public, and the parties may be
represented by counsel. The board shall receive oral and written evidence
presented by the parties. All proceedings shall be recorded to maintain an
official record; a transcript may be made at the expense of the party
requesting such transcript.
   (H)   Time limitations in this section may be extended by consent of all
parties or by order of the board based upon good cause. Nothing in this section
shall preclude a complainant from withdrawing a complaint, or shall preclude
the parties from entering into conciliation proceedings at any time.
   (I)   If, in the discretion of the board, immediate court action is
advisable, the board may at any time direct the village attorney to file a
complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction requesting injunctive or other
appropriate relief. Such action may be taken although administrative action is
pending before the board.
   (J)   At hearings conducted by the board, all parties shall be given due
notice to appear. A panel of not less than two (2) of the same members of the
board must be present at all times. Only those members who have attended all
hearings on a matter shall participate in the determination of the complaint.
   (K)   Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the board
shall render, its decision, in writing with findings of fact and shall issue
appropriate orders, which shall be served upon the complainant and the
respondent by certified mail, return receipt requested. Such decision of the
board must receive the affirmative consent of a majority of those members of
the board who have been present at all the hearings referenced above.
   (L)   If the board determines that the respondent has not violated section
7-26-6 of this chapter the complaint shall be dismissed.
   (M)   If the board determines that the respondent has violated section
7-26-6 of this chapter, it may order whatever relief it deems appropriate,
including such fines and penalties, as provided for in this chapter, injunctive
relief, compensatory and/or punitive damages, and an award of attorney fees on
the complainant.
   (N)   In the event of noncompliance with orders of the board, the board
shall direct the village attorney to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction
for appropriate relief.
   (O)   In addition to the penalties provided in this chapter, the board may
direct the village attorney to file with the appropriate state agency a
complaint against any person found to have violated any provision of this
chapter, seeking suspension or revocation of the license issued to such person
or other appropriate sanctions.
   (P)   In addition to the remedies provided in this chapter, any person
injured by a violation of this chapter shall have the right to immediately seek
redress in the courts. A court may order whatever relief is appropriate,
including injunctive relief, compensatory and/or punitive damages, and
reasonable attorney fees and costs.
   (Q)   Any party to a hearing may apply for judicial review of a board
decision before a court of competent jurisdiction. A board decision may be
overturned only if it is arbitrary and capricious, or otherwise not in
accordance with law. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-11: COUNSELING:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any person from
referring a prospective tenant or purchaser to the human relations commission
for counseling.
   (B)   The counseling may consist of furnishing:
      1.   Information regarding the policy of the village to promote, long
term, population diversity and integration.
      2.   Statistical data regarding the racial composition of blocks,
neighborhoods and school districts.
      3.   Information on local, state and federal equal opportunity programs
and regulations, and on the availability of housing options, in the village.
(Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-2012)
7-26-12: SOLICITATION:
   (A)   All restrictions regarding solicitation reflected in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-1 et seq., will be applicable.
   (B)   No real estate agent shall solicit any owner, or occupant of a
dwelling to sell or rent, or list for sale or rental, such dwelling at any time
after such owner or occupant has notified the village clerk that he does not
desire to be so solicited. The clerk shall publish and make available without
charge, appropriate forms which may be executed by any owner or occupant of a
dwelling to provide such notice. The clerk shall prepare a list of the names
and addresses of such owners and occupants and shall publish the same as
follows:
      1.   By maintaining a copy of the list in the office of the village clerk
and making it available for inspection;
      2.   By mailing or otherwise delivering a copy of the list annually, plus
a quarterly list of additions and deletions, to every real estate firm
belonging to the local board of realtors, if any; and
      3.   By furnishing a copy of the list upon request and payment of
reproduction costs to any person having an interest in the sale or rental of
any dwelling in the village. In addition, any owner or occupant of a dwelling
may notify, in writing, any real estate agent that such owner or occupant does
not desire to be solicited. Upon such notice, a real estate agent shall not
solicit such owner or occupant to sell or rent, or list for sale or rental,
such dwelling.
   (C)   No person shall engage in solicitation within the village unless such
person has filed a notice of intent to solicit in accordance with the
procedures in subsection (D) of this section.
   (D)   Not less than seven (7) or more than thirty (30) days prior to the
date on which a person proposes to engage in solicitation within the village,
such person shall file with the village clerk a "notice of intent to solicit".
The notice shall be submitted on the form set forth below and shall contain the
following information:
      1.   Name, business address and telephone number of the person filing the
notice of intent to solicit.
      2.   Addresses of parcels of residential real estate whose owners or
tenants the person proposes to solicit. If the solicitation will encompass a
definable geographic area, such areas may be described as a whole and
individual addresses need not be listed.
      3.   Dates of proposed solicitation (not to exceed a 2 week period).
      4.   Names of communities in which the person has engaged in solicitation
within the preceding six (6) months.
      5.   A sample of the material proposed to be distributed. (Ord. 2012-02,
4-19-2012)
7-26-13: PENALTY:
   (A)   Chapter Violations: Any person found to have violated any provision of
this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation
in addition to other penalties or relief which may be provided for herein. A
violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense
for each day such violation continues.
   (B)   Solicitation Violations:
      1.   Any person who solicits or attempts to solicit, any owner or
occupant of a dwelling to sell or rent such dwelling, or list such dwelling for
sale or rental, when the owner or occupant appears on the list of persons not
desiring solicitation or has been notified in writing that the owner or
occupant does not desire to be solicited, shall be in violation of this chapter
and shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each
solicitation of an owner or tenant which violates this chapter shall be deemed
a separate violation.
      2.   Any person who fails to file a notice to intent to solicit or who
engages or attempts to engage in solicitation at a time or in a place or manner
different from that set forth in the notice of intent to solicit shall be in
violation of this chapter and shall be subject to a fine of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each violation. Each solicitation of an owner or tenant which violates the
provisions of this section shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (C)   Owner Or Agent Hired By An Owner: Any owner, or agent hired by an
owner, violating any provision of this chapter may be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense. A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute
a separate offense for each day such violation continues. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-19-
2012)
CHAPTER 27
SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS
SECTION:
7-27-1: Purpose
7-27-2: Definitions
7-27-3: Nuisance
7-27-4: Short-Term Rental Units Restricted; Exceptions
7-27-5: Penalty
7-27-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to protect and preserve the quiet enjoyment of
residential properties and neighborhoods within the village and to mitigate or
eliminate adverse secondary effects the village and its residents may
experience by reason of short-term rentals of residential structures in the
village, including, but not limited to, excessive noise, litter, and light
pollution; traffic congestion; overcrowded parking; and criminal activity.
(Ord. 2023-16, 8-17-2023)
7-27-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
                        All or part of a residential building or dwelling unit
                        located in any zoning district, being leased, rented,
                        offered for rent, hired out, licensed, or otherwise let
                        as an accessory use or occupancy to a person or persons
                        other than the owner of the subject property or a
                        family member of the owner thereof for a period or term
                        that is less than ninety (90) consecutive days. The
                        term "short-term rental unit" shall also include a
SHORT TERM RENTAL UNIT: dwelling unit or accessory building, or part thereof,
                        used for overnight accommodation that is available for
                        rent by transient guests for a period or term that is
                        less than ninety (90) consecutive days. The term
                        "short-term rental unit" shall not include a hotel or
                        motel located in a commercial zoning district that
                        holds a license as required in Section
                        9-11-2 of this code. (Ord. 2023-16, 8-17-2023; amd.
                        Ord. 2025-10, 3-17-2025)
 
7-27-3: NUISANCE:
Short-term rental units as defined in this Chapter are hereby declared to be
and shall constitute nuisances and may be abated accordingly pursuant to any
and all available remedies. (Ord. 2023-16, 8-17-2023)
7-27-4: SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNITS RESTRICTED; EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, leasing, renting, hiring out,
licensing, or letting; offering or inviting the leasing, renting, hiring out,
licensing, or letting; or otherwise permitting a short-term rental unit or
occupancy thereof for a period or term that is less than ninety (90)
consecutive days shall be prohibited, and such conduct shall be prohibited,
whether engaged in or participated in by the owner of the property, one or more
agents of the property owner, or by any person leasing, or seeking to lease as
a lessor, or renting or seeking to rent as lessee or otherwise occupy a
premises, or part thereof, as tenant or temporary occupant thereof.
   (B)   The term of any lease or occupancy agreement which has satisfied the
minimum term required by this Chapter may be extended on a month-to-month basis
on the conditions that: (1) the lease or occupancy is pursuant to a written
lease or license; and (2) the tenant or tenants remain the same without any
additional tenants, occupants, guests or users.
   (C)   The prohibition on short term rental units shall not apply when the
immediately preceding owner of a property maintains possession of the dwelling
unit after closing on a real estate transaction for the sale thereof and leases
said property back from the successor owner for a period of time pursuant to a
written agreement. (Ord. 2023-16, 8-17-2023; amd. Ord. 2025-10, 3-17-2025)
7-27-5: PENALTY:
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything otherwise provided in this code to the
contrary, any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined in an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per day, nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day. Unless
exempted by this Chapter, each day a residential building, dwelling unit, or
any accessory building, or part thereof, is offered for rent as a short-term
rental unit; is leased, rented, hired out, licensed, or let as a short term
rental unit; or is occupied as a short-term rental unit shall constitute a
separate violation of this Chapter. Without any limitation on the foregoing,
each day a violation of this Chapter occurs or continues shall be a separate
offense, and each such offense shall be subject to not less than the minimum
daily fine.
   (B)   The restrictions contained in this Chapter shall be interpreted as
minimum standards and shall be in addition to any other applicable village
ordinances and requirements that apply to short-term rental units or the
properties on which they are located.
(Ord. 2023-16, 8-17-2023)
CHAPTER 28
SOLAR ENERGY CODE
SECTION:
7-28-1: Scope
7-28-2: Purpose
7-28-3: Definitions
7-28-4: Permitted Accessory Use
7-28-1: SCOPE:
   This chapter applies to all solar energy installations in the Village of
River Grove, Cook County, Illinois ("the Village"{'}'}.
(Ord. 2024-13, 5-6-2024)
7-28-2: PURPOSE:
The Village has adopted this chapter for the following purposes:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan Goals. To meet the goals of the Comprehensive Plan
and preserve the health, safety, and welfare of the community by promoting the
safe, effective, and efficient use of solar energy systems. The solar energy
standards specifically implement the following goals:
      1.   Goal. Encourage the use of local renewable energy resources,
including appropriate applications for wind, solar, and biomass energy.
      2.   Goal. Promote sustainable building design and management practices
to serve current and future generations.
   B.   Climate Change Goals. The Village has committed to reducing carbon and
other greenhouse gas emissions. Solar energy is an abundant, renewable, and
nonpolluting energy resource and its conversion to electricity or heat reduces
dependence on nonrenewable energy resources and decreases the air and water
pollution that results from using conventional energy sources.
   C.   Consistency with State Climate Goals. Village recognizes that the
transition to renewable energy supported by Illinois state policy will result
in significant investment in and development of the community's solar energy
resources.
   D.   Infrastructure. Distributed solar photovoltaic systems will enhance the
reliability and power quality of the power grid and make more efficient use of
Village's electric distribution infrastructure.
   E.   Local Resource. Solar energy is an underused local energy resource, and
encouraging the use of solar energy will diversify the community's energy
supply portfolio and reduce exposure to fiscal risks associated with fossil
fuels.
   F.   Provide Financial Benefits to Consumers and Improve Competitive
Markets. Solar energy systems offer additional energy choice at lower cost to
consumers and property owners and will improve competition in the electricity
and natural gas supply market.
   G.   Specific Local Requirements and Limitations. The Village adopts the
following specification requirements or limitations with respect to solar
energy systems:
      1.   The Village does not allow any inline tap.
      2.   The Village does not allow meter fitting or service replacement.
      3.   The Village requires that any inverter be fed from the distribution
panel with pole breaker.
      4.   The seal on any electrical meter may not be broken.
      5.   The Village requires that a license and bonded electrician with the
Village must pull a permit and perform the work If circuit breaker panel has no
open spaces.
      6.   The Village shall enforce ComEd Code Section 6.011: Tampering with a
company meter, breaking of meter seals, and/or installing conductors to carry
unmetered current is prohibited. Meters or service connections, etc, shall not
be disconnected, removed, or relocated without the Company's authorization.
      7.   Permits must be obtained before starting any work, and a current
licensed electrical contractor with the Village is required to install any
solar panel.
(Ord. 2024-13, 5-6-2024)
7-28-3: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING-INTEGRAT ED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS: A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building. Building-integrated systems include, but are not
limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar energy systems contained within
roofing materials, windows, skylights, and awnings.
COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: Any device or assembly of devices that (i) is
ground installed and (ii) uses solar energy from the sun for generating
electricity for the primary purpose of wholesale sale and not primarily for
consumption on the property on which the device or devices reside as defined in
Illinois Statute 55 ILCS 5/5-12020(a).
COMMUNITY SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A commercial solar energy system that is
eligible for community solar incentives as administered by the Illinois Power
Agency credits the value of electricity generated by the facility to the
subscribers of the facility and is limited in nameplate capacity to less than
or equal to five thousand (5,000) kilowatts.
GRID-LNTERTIE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A photovoltaic solar energy system that is
connected to an electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
GROUND-MOUNTED: A solar energy system mounted on a rack or pole that rests or
is attached to the ground. Ground-mounted systems can be either accessory or
principal uses.
OFF-GRID SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A photovoltaic solar energy system in which the
circuits energized by the solar energy system are not electrically connected in
any way to electric circuits that are served by an electric utility company.
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM: A solar energy system that converts solar energy directly
into electricity.
POLLINATOR-FRIEND LY SOLAR: A solar installation that meets the standards of a
pollinator-friendly installation set by the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources, consistent with Illinois Statute 525 ILCS 55/1, et seq.
ROOF-MOUNTED: A solar energy system mounted on a rack that is fastened to or
ballasted on a structure roof. Roof-mounted systems are accessory to the
principal use.
SOLAR ACCESS: Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building
through the entire year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights,
for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system,
consistent with Illinois Statute 30 ILCS 725 1.2(e).
SOLAR CARPORT: A solar energy system installed on a carport structure that is
accessory to a parking area and may include electric vehicle supply equipment
or energy storage facilities for use in electric vehicle charging.
SOLAR COLLECTOR: A device, structure, or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy. The collector does not include
frames, supports, or mounting hardware.
SOLAR DAYLIGHTING: Capturing and directing the visible light spectrum for use
in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial lighting,
usually by adding a device or design element to the building envelope.
SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in the
form of heat or light by a solar collector.
SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT: An easement consistent with ILCS 725 1.2(f) that limits
the height or location, or both, of permissible development on the burdened
land in terms of a structure or vegetation, or both, for the purpose of
providing access to sunlight for the burdened land.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A device, array of devices, or structural design feature,
with the purpose of providing generation or storage of electricity from
sunlight; the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for space
heating or cooling; daylight for interior lighting; or water heating.
SOLAR HOT AIR SYSTEM: A solar energy system that includes a solar collector to
provide direct supplemental space heating by heating and re-circulating
conditioned building air.
SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM: A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs, including residential domestic hot water and hot water for
commercial processes.
SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES: Racking, frames, or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
SOLAR READY DESIGN: The design and construction of a building that facilitates
and makes the installation of rooftop solar feasible.
SOLAR RESOURCE: A view of the sun from a specific point on a lot or building
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building, or object for a minimum of
four (4) hours between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) a.m. and three o’clock
(3:00) p.m. Standard Time on all days of the year and can be measured in annual
watts per square meter.
(Ord. 2024-13, 5-6-2024)
7-28-4: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USE:
Solar energy systems other than commercial or community solar energy systems
are a permitted accessory use in all zoning districts where structures of any
sort are allowed and are subject to certain requirements as set forth below,
except for systems serving an agricultural use as provided in Illinois Statutes
55 ILCS 5/5-12001. Solar carports and associated electric vehicle charging
equipment are a permitted accessory use on surface parking lots in all
districts. Solar energy systems that do not meet the following design standards
will require a conditional use permit.
   A.   Height. Solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:
      1.   Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems must not exceed the
maximum allowed height in any zoning district. For purposes of height
measurement on flat roofs, solar energy systems will be given an equivalent
exception to height standards as building-mounted mechanical devices or
equipment elsewhere in this Code.
      2.   Ground or pole-mounted solar energy systems must not exceed fifteen
feet (15') in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      3.   Solar carports in non-residential districts must not exceed twenty
feet (20') in height.
   B.   Setback. Solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure setback
for the zoning district and principal land use associated with the lot on which
the system is located, as allowed below.
      1.   Roof or Building-Mounted Solar Energy Systems. The collector surface
and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems must not extend
beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or
built unless the collector and mounting system has been explicitly engineered
to safely extend beyond the edge, and setback standards are not violated.
Exterior piping for solar hot water systems is allowed to extend beyond the
perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure. Solar collectors mounted on
the sides of buildings and serving as awnings are considered to be building-
integrated systems and are regulated as awnings.
      2.   Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems. Ground-mounted solar energy
systems may not extend into the side or rear setback when oriented at minimum
design tilt, except as otherwise allowed in this Code for building mechanical
systems.
   C.   Visibility and Design Standards. Solar energy systems in residential
districts must be designed to be consistent with Village's design and character
goals as viewed from the public right-of-way, as described in C.1-3, to the
extent that doing so does not affect the cost or efficacy of the system.
      1.   Building Integrated Photovoltaic Systems. Building integrated
photovoltaic solar energy systems are allowed regardless of whether the system
is visible from the public right-of-way, provided the building component in
which the system is integrated meets all required setback, land use, or
performance standards for the district in which the building is located.
      2.   Aesthetic Restrictions. If the system is not visible from the
closest edge of any public right-of-way other than an alley or if the system
meets the following standards, the system is in compliance with visibility and
design provisions of this chapter.
         a.   Roof-mounted systems on pitched roofs visible from the nearest
edge of the front right-of-way must have the same finished pitch as the roof
and be no more than ten inches (10") above the roof.
         b.   Roof-mounted systems on flat roofs visible from the nearest edge
of the front right-of-way must not be more than five feet above the finished
roof and are exempt from any rooftop equipment or mechanical system screening
requirements.
   D.   Lot Coverage. Ground-mounted systems in residential districts must not
exceed half the building footprint of the principal structure.
      1.   Ground-mounted systems are exempt from lot coverage or impervious
surface standards if the soil under the collector is maintained in vegetation
and not compacted.
      2.   Ground-mounted systems do not count toward accessory structure
limitations.
      3.   Solar carports in non-residential districts are exempt from lot
coverage limitations but must meet all parking standards in this Code.
   E.   Historic Buildings. Solar energy systems on buildings within designated
historic districts or on locally designated historic buildings (exclusive of
state or federal historic designation) must be approved by the Historical
Commission, consistent with the standards for solar energy systems on
historically designated buildings published by the U.S. Department of Interior.
   F.   Plan Approval Required. All solar energy systems requiring a building
permit or other permit from Village must provide a site plan for review. No
plans shall be approved for permit unless such plans are signed and sealed
either by an architect licensed to practice architecture, as approved by the
"Illinois Architectural Act", a structural engineer licensed to practice
engineering, as provided by the "Illinois Structural Engineering Act" or by a
professional engineer licensed to practice engineering, as provided by the
Illinois Department of Registration and Education.
      1.   Plan Applications. Plan applications for solar energy systems must
be accompanied by to-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings. The
drawings must show the system's location on the building or on the property for
a ground-mounted system, including the property lines.
      2.   Plan Approvals. Applications that meet the design requirements of
this Code will be granted administrative approval by the zoning official and do
not require Planning Commission review. Plan approval does not indicate
compliance with the Building Code or Electric Code.
      3.   Plans. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one-eighth
inch to a foot and shall contain the following information unless specifically
waived by the Building Official.
         a.   Two (2) full sets of plans are required and a PDF copy shall be
emailed to the Building Department.
         b.   Complete structural details must be included indicating the size
and location of all structural members supporting the solar collectors and
storage areas.
         c.   All details relating to construction of the proposed solar
system, including size, type of materials, location of all duct work, heat
exchangers, solar collectors, storage areas, piping, fans, valves, insulation
details for floors, walls and ceilings or any other related details may be
required by the Building Official.
         d.   Materials shall be approved and installed according to rules and
regulations set forth in the International Building Code, International
Mechanical Code and provisions of this Code.
   G.   Approved Solar Components. Electric solar energy systems components
must have a UL or equivalent listing, and solar hot water systems must have an
SRCC rating.
   H.   Compliance with Building Code. All solar energy systems must meet local
building code standards.
   I.   Compliance with State Electric Code. All photovoltaic systems must
comply with the Illinois State Electric Code.
   J.   Compliance with State Plumbing Code. Solar thermal systems must comply
with applicable Illinois State Plumbing Code requirements.
   K.   Utility Notification. All grid-intertie solar energy systems must
comply with the interconnection requirements of the electric utility. Off-grid
systems are exempt from this requirement.
   L.   Restrictions on Solar Energy Systems Limited - Consistent with Illinois
Statute 765 ILCS 165, no homeowners' agreement, covenant, common interest
community, or other contract between multiple property owners within a
subdivision of Village can prohibit or restrict homeowners from installing
solar energy systems. No energy policy statement enacted by a common interest
community can be more restrictive than Village's solar energy standards.
(Ord. 2024-13, 5-6-2024)
TITLE VIII
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
8-1-1: International Fire Code Adopted
8-1-2: Establishment; Fire Prevention Bureau
8-1-3: Annual Report
8-1-4: Establishment Of Limits, Explosives
8-1-5: Establishment Of Limits, Flammable Liquids
8-1-6: Modifications
8-1-7: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
8-1-8: Schedule Of Fees/Penalties
8-1-9: Self-Service Filling Stations
8-1-10: Testing Of Storage Tanks
8-1-11: Fire Pits
8-1-12: Barbecue Grills And Portable Heaters
8-1-13: Regulation Of Fire Alarm Plans And Submittal Checklist
8-1-14: Regulation Of Sprinkler System Plans And Submittal Checklist
8-1-1: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
The provisions and regulations contained in the 2015 International Fire Code as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., in book form and as
currently amended, is hereby adopted by reference as the Fire Code of the
Village and are made a part hereof as if fully set forth herein, with the
following exceptions:
   (A)   Separability: Any regulation therein contained pertaining to any
business or activity which is expressly prohibited by another ordinance of the
Village shall not be construed as repealing or otherwise affecting the
prohibition of that ordinance or permitting such business or activity so
prohibited.
   (B)   Chief Appointing Authority: The term "chief appointing authority",
wherever used shall mean the President and Board of Trustees of the Village.
   (C)   Appeal Board Members: All members of the Appeal Board provided for in
the code hereby adopted shall be residents and electors of the Village for not
less than one year preceding their appointment and during their term.
   (D)   Supervision Of Fire Protection Systems:
      1.   Fire Protection Systems: All required automatic fire protection
systems shall be supervised by any licensed, UL approved central supervising
station by the means of wireless communication in accordance with chapter 9 of
the International Fire Code, specifically section 901.6.1, and NFPA 72, and
said systems shall transmit both alarm and trouble signals.
      2.   Effective Date: All new fire protection systems required under this
code shall communicate via wireless communication. All existing fire protection
systems shall be converted to wireless communication by January 1, 2009. Any
person or entity failing to comply with this section shall be subject to the
penalty provisions provided in subsection (D)3 of this section.
      3.   Penalty: No person or persons except those connected with the
management or supervision of the same shall activate any fire protection system
or fire alarm system unless it is to communicate an alarm of fire or other
emergency, or derange or in any manner meddle or interfere with any
communication of or transmission by such a system. Any person or entity
violating this section shall be subject to a penalty of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense or for each day there is a failure to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Amendments: The code adopted in this section is hereby amended by
substituting the following sections or subsections for and in lieu of those
sections or subsections with corresponding numbers in such code, or, where
there is no corresponding section in such code, the following sections or
subsections shall be enacted as additions to such code:
Subsection 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the fire code of
the Village of River Grove, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
Subsection 101.2.1 Appendices. All appendices are hereby adopted and made a
part of this code.
Subsection 102.7 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards
referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 80, and such
codes and standards shall be considered part of the requirements of this code
to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in
Sections 102.7.1 and 102.7.2, except that, where an NFPA standard is
referenced, said standard shall be considered part of the requirements of this
code in its entirety.
Subsection 109.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of
this Code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit
or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
violation of this code, punishable by a fine not to exceed $750.00 or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed six months or both such fine and
imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Subsection 708.3 Fire-resistance rating. Delete the Exceptions.
Subsection 711.2.4.3 Dwelling units and sleeping units. Delete the Exception.
Subsection 907.6.6 Monitoring. Fire alarm systems required by this chapter or
by the International Fire Code shall be monitored by any licensed, U.L approved
central supervising station.
Exception: Monitoring by a supervising station is not required for:
1.Single- and multiple-station smoke alarms required by Section 907.2.11.
2.Smoke detectors in Group I-3 occupancies.
3.Automatic sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-2: ESTABLISHMENT; FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU:
The Fire Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire
Department, which bureau is hereby established and which shall be operated
under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department, who may detail such
members of the department as inspectors as shall from time to time be
necessary. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-3: ANNUAL REPORT:
A report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made annually and
transmitted to the Corporate Authorities; it shall contain all proceedings
under this Code, with such statistics as the Chief of the Fire Department may
wish to include therein; the Chief of the Fire Department shall also recommend
any amendments to the code which, in his judgment, shall be desirable. (Ord.
2017-16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS, EXPLOSIVES:
   (A)   The limits in which the storage of explosives, ammunition and blasting
agents is prohibited are hereby established as the corporate limits of the
Village.
      1.   Exception: Where a commercial fireworks display has been approved by
the Fire Marshal and is conducted under rules of the Office of Alcohol,
Tobacco, and Fire Arms, the Office of the State Fire Marshal of the State of
Illinois and the Illinois Department of Natural Resources. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-
2017)
8-1-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS, FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
The following uses are prohibited within the corporate limits of the Village:
   (A)   The storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks.
   (B)   The establishment of new bulk plants for flammable liquids.
   (C)   The bulk storage of liquefied petroleum. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-6: MODIFICATIONS:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Fire Code, subject to the approval of the Corporate
Authorities, upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly
authorized agent when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall
be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of
the Chief of the Fire Department thereon shall be entered upon the records of
the department and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant. (Ord.
2017-16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-7: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The Building Commissioner and the Chief of the Fire Department shall act as a
committee to determine and recommend to the Corporate Authorities, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated
in said code. The Chief of the Fire Department shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested
persons after the same have been approved by the Corporate Authorities. (Ord.
2017-16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-8: SCHEDULE OF FEES/PENALTIES:
   (A)   False Alarms. Fines based on a twelve (12)-month calendar cycle from
January 1 to December 31 each year; and the fines for false alarms are
applicable to all alarms including without limitation fire alarms, automatic
fire alarms, trouble alarms, elevator alarms, and any such other alarm.
      1.   Commercial Building Schedule Of Fines:
         a.   First and second false alarms shall not be subject to a fine;
         b.   Third false alarm shall be fined one hundred and twenty-five
dollars ($125.00);
         c.   Fourth false alarm shall be fined two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00);
         d.   Fifth false alarm shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500.00);
and
         e.   Any false alarm in excess of a fifth false alarm shall be seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) each.
      2.   Multi-family Residential Schedule Of Fines:
         a.   First and second false alarms shall not be subject to a fine;
         b.   Any false alarm in excess of a second false alarm shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00) each.
   (B)   Annual Fire and Life Safety Inspections. The following inspection and
reinspection fees shall apply for annual fire and life safety required
inspections:
      1.   Annual Inspection shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) and included as
part of the annual business license fee;
      2.   The first and second compliance re-inspection shall not be subject
to additional fees;
      3.   A third re-inspection shall be subject to a one hundred and twenty-
five dollars ($125.00) fee;
      4.   A fourth re-inspection shall be subject to a two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250.00) fee;
      5.   A fifth re-inspection shall be subject to a five hundred dollars
($500.00) fee; and
      6.   Any re-inspection following a fifth re-inspection shall be subject
to a seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) fee per re-inspection.
   (C)   Plan Reviews. Plan reviews for required fire suppression or alarm
systems shall be subject to the following fees:
      1.   Sprinkler Systems
         (a)   If area served is between zero (0) and two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet, fee shall be two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00); and
         (b)   If area served is over two thousand five hundred (2,500) square
feet, the fee shall be the actual cost charged by the village contractor for
reviewing such systems, with the cost being imposed upon the system contractor.
         (c)   Fire Pump. The actual cost charged by the village contractor for
reviewing such pumps, with cost being imposed upon the pump contractor.
         (d)   Fire Alarm System
            (1)   If area served is between zero (0) and two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet, the fee shall be one hundred and fifty dollars
($150.00); and
            (2)   If the area served is over two thousand five hundred (2,500)
square feet, the fee shall be the actual cost charged by the village contractor
for reviewing such systems, with the cost being imposed upon the alarm
contractor.
         (e)   Hood and Duct System reviews shall be subject to a seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) fee.
         (f)   Spray Booth System reviews shall be subject to seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) fee.
   (D)   Inspection Fees: Department inspections shall be subject to the
following fees:
      1.   Fire Pump Installations shall be subject to a one hundred dollars
($100.00) inspection fee;
      2.   A Special Hazard System Acceptance Test shall be subject to a one
hundred dollars ($100.00) fee;
      3.   A Commercial Cooking Acceptance Test shall be subject to a one
hundred dollars ($100.00) fee;
      4.   Sprinkler System Acceptance Test shall be subject to a one hundred
dollars ($100.00) fee;
      5.   Fire Alarm System Acceptance Test shall be subject to a one hundred
dollars ($100.00) fee;
      6.   Above/Below Ground Storage Tank Inspections shall be subject to non-
compliance fees between fifty dollars ($50.00) and two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense and for each day of non-compliance.
      7.   Final Inspections/Certification for Occupancy shall be subject to a
one hundred dollars ($100.00) fee;
      8.   Special Use/Event Inspections shall be subject to a two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250.00) fee;
      9.   Fireworks Display Inspections/Permits shall be subject to a five
hundred dollars ($500.00) fee; and
      10.   Fireworks Display Standby Fees shall be as follows:
         (a)   For one engine with three or more firefighters: five hundred
dollars ($500.00); and
         (b)   A staff vehicle with one firefighter two hundred dollars
($200.00). (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-05, 3-16-2023; Ord. 2024-
26, 12-2-2024)
8-1-9: SELF-SERVICE FILLING STATIONS:
Self-service filling stations or service stations are permitted when licensed
by and in compliance with rules and regulations promulgated by the State
Division of Fire Prevention and upon compliance with the following additional
conditions:
   (A)   One fire extinguisher as required by and conforming to State
regulations shall be provided for each pump island containing four (4) or less
dispensing hoses.
   (B)   An approved container into which gasoline may be dispensed must be
such as defined in the Fire Code herein adopted.
   (C)   Each dispensing nozzle for gasoline shall be equipped with a
splashguard approved by the Chief of the Fire Department. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-
2017)
8-1-10: TESTING OF STORAGE TANKS:
All stationary tanks or vessels for the storage and/or dispensing of volatile
fuels or chemicals or compressed gas shall be tested, in accordance with AIA
standards, prior to their installation and at least once every two (2) years of
service, including all piping, dispensers and appurtenant systems and parts,
such test to be under the direction and supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department, who shall certify the results of such testing and the safety of the
equipment prior to the issuance of any license or permit for use. (Ord. 2017-
16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-11: FIRE PITS:
It shall be lawful to operate any open flame device or manufactured fire pit
without a permit, but all such use and operation shall be in compliance with
section 307 of the 2015 International Fire Code, entitled open burning, as
adopted in section
8-1-1 of this chapter, and the following regulations:
   (A)   Fuels: Fuel for any fire shall consist of seasoned, dry firewood only.
No other gas or items, such as grass, leaves, branches, tree limbs or other
yard or construction waste shall be used as fuel for any fire.
   (B)   Smoke Nuisance: The smoke generated by any fire shall not be a
nuisance to any adjacent property, and any fire that produces smoke that is
reasonably objectionable to any adjacent property due to the size of the fire
or atmospheric or wind conditions is prohibited. In the event that a resident
complains to the Police or Fire Departments of the Village, the official in
charge shall make the determination if any fire or its smoke is offensive, and
upon determining that any such fire is offensive, the fire shall be
extinguished by the owner or operator of the fire pit or grill.
   (C)   Location Of Grills: All grill fires must be in an approved container,
designed for that purpose, and so long as they or their use otherwise comply
with this chapter.
   (D)   Location Of Fire Pits: All fire pit fires must be in an approved
container, designed and manufactured for that purpose, and must not be located
less than ten feet (10') from any combustible structure or materials (i.e.,
houses, garages, decks, woodpiles, etc.) or combustible ground cover. Fire pits
shall be allowed on concrete or masonry patios so long as they or their use
otherwise comply with this chapter. Fire pits shall not be used on any
combustible surface or any balcony.
   (E)   Adult Monitoring: Any controlled fire must be monitored constantly by
an adult until extinguished. No individual under age eighteen (18) shall be
allowed to ignite, monitor, or extinguish any controlled fire.
   (F)   Fire Extinguisher: An operable fire extinguisher (minimum 4-A rating)
or other means to extinguish a fire (i.e., a charged garden hose) must be
maintained at all times and be immediately available near the place of the fire
pit.
   (G)   Metal Covers/Lids: All pits or other devices designed for a controlled
fire, shall include a metal cover or lid that must be available at all times
during any controlled fire and shall be used to cover or close the device when
not in use.
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the 2015 International
Fire Code and this section, the provisions of this section shall govern and
control. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-12: BARBECUE GRILLS AND PORTABLE HEATERS:
It shall be lawful to operate or use charcoal burners, or other open flame
cooking devices without a permit, but all such use and operation shall be in
compliance with section 307 of the 2015 International Fire Code, entitled open
burning, as adopted in section
8-1-1 of this chapter, and the following regulations:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to build or light any fire on any public street,
sidewalk, pavement or other public place, or so as to endanger any building or
structure within the Village.
   (B)   Use of LP gas or natural fueled LP gas or natural gas fueled portable
heaters shall not be allowed on affixed or detached decks, porches or balconies
in multiple-family residences under any circumstances.
   (C)   Use of outdoor barbecue grills or other similar devices are prohibited
on any porch, balcony or deck of any multi-family structure with the following
exception:
      1.   LP gas or natural fueled LP gas or natural gas fueled appliances
shall be allowed on affixed decks in multiple-family residences where the
following clearances from the appliances are observed: thirty six inches (36")
on the sides and rear and forty eight inches (48") in front, and the required
means of ingress and egress is not obstructed, and the flooring upon which the
appliances exist and any overhanging structures are constructed of
noncombustible materials; no appliance of any kind shall be allowed on any
combustible deck or on any deck with overhanging structures such as roofs,
balconies, trellises, etc., unless such overhanging structures are made of
noncombustible materials.
      2.   Charcoal, wood or any other fuel source other than gas may not be
used at any time in the operation of any barbecue or other appliance on any
deck, balcony or porch of any multi-family residence or structure.
      3.   A fire extinguisher shall be maintained at all times at any location
equipped with any approved barbecue, portable heater or other gas fueled
appliance.
   (D)   Permits are required for the installation of outdoor natural gas
fueled appliances.
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the 2015 International
Fire Code and this section, the provisions of this section shall govern and
control. (Ord. 2017-16, 10-5-2017)
8-1-13: REGULATION OF FIRE ALARM PLANS AND SUBMITTAL CHECKLIST:
The following regulations and checklist establish a uniform approach for the
design community and provide owners and fire alarm designers with complete fire
alarm design and submittal package requirements. It shall be the responsibility
of the installer/designer to assure that all applicable code requirements are
followed. Any plans which are rejected and resubmitted will be subject to
payment of additional fees for additional plan review(s).
   (A)   Fire Alarm Systems. The installation, renovation, addition, and/or
maintenance of any fire alarm system shall comply with the following
regulations:
      1.   Installation work shall be performed only after the plans have been
reviewed and approved by the village; and the department shall generally
complete a plan review within ten (10) business days of submittal to the
village.
      2.   Submittal Checklist: All plans submitted shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Proof of the contractor's license allowing the contractor to
work within the Village of River Grove.
         (b)   Proof that a certified electrician shall install any fire alarm
systems who must also be licensed to install fire alarm systems.
         (c)   The applicable codes are as follows:
            (1)   NFPA 70 (2017 Edition)
            (2)   NFPA 72 (2016 Edition)
   (B)   Fire Alarm Drawings.
      1.   All fire alarm drawings shall be submitted to the River Grove Fire
Department Fire Prevention Bureau, 2601 N Thatcher, River Grove, IL 60171,
which shall include three (3) complete sets of the fire alarm drawings, one set
on CD in PDF format, and cut sheet/product information.
      2.   The scaled drawings shall include the following:
         (a)   A title block that includes: (i) the property name and address;
(ii) the alarm company name and address; (iii) the date of drawing with space
for revision dates; (iv) the classification of the system per NFPA 72; (v) the
name of the individual drew the drawing; (vi) the scale of the drawing; (vii)
label the drawing as Fire Alarm System Standard or Addressable; and (viii) the
number of pages of the drawing.
         (b)   A legend of the Fire Alarm System located on one sheet to
indicate the type of device installed.
         (c)   A point-to-point wire diagram indicating the number of wires and
gauge for each wire run, including which EMT size when appropriate.
         (d)   Installation notes under the symbol's legend indicating the type
of wire and gauge for each circuit.
         (e)   Identify the overall dimension of the building on each floor and
square footage and identify ceiling heights and ceiling construction on the
drawings.
Drawings need to be clear, legible, and understandable. Drawings must be of a
fire alarm design only.
   (C)   Calculations.
      1.   Wire size, type, and the resistance value
      2.   Voltage drop calculations
      3.   Battery calculations (minimum 48-hour battery back-up with 5 minutes
of alarm)
   (D)   Specification Sheets. All pertinent information shall be highlighted
on a specification sheet, and provide cut sheets for all devices installed:
      1.   FACP - Type, Listing, Current Draw
      2.   Batteries - Type, Listing, Current Draw
      3.   Smoke Detector - Type, Configuration, Spacing, Current Draw
      4.   Heat Detector - Type, Configuration, Spacing, Current Draw
      5.   Duct Detectors - Supervisory signal only (reset stations need to be
located near the panel)
      6.   Manual Pull Stations - Type, Configuration
      7.   Audible Appliances - Type, Rating, Power Tap
      8.   Alarm Temporal Pattern
      9.   Visual Appliances - Type, Configuration
      10.   Protective Covers - Type, Attenuation
      11.   Water Flow Devices - Type, Configuration
      12.   Supervisory Device - Type, Configuration
   (E)   Additional Submittal Information Required.
      1.   A record of completion shall be prepared and submitted at final
inspection (See Section 7.2.1 in NFPA 72)
      2.   A stamped set of plans and cut sheets approved by the Fire
Department shall be available at the work site at all times.
   (F)   Rough Inspection. A rough inspection of all fire alarm wiring shall be
done by the River Grove Fire Department prior to the installation of drywall
and/or ceiling materials. The installer shall contact the department to
schedule the inspection.
   (G)   Final Inspection. A final inspection shall be scheduled in compliance
with the following conditions:
      1.   No acceptance testing will be conducted prior to the completion of
construction; and a minimum of two (2) business days is needed to schedule
test.
      2.   Final acceptance is subject to field inspection.
      3.   Re-inspection fees will be charged for re-inspections needed due to
incomplete systems and/or failure to follow the above rules.
      4.   An appointment is needed to schedule a final inspection.
      5.   No inspection or testing will occur until all communicators are
operational and being monitored.
   (H)   Contractor Certification. The contractor must provide the River Grove
Fire Department with a certificate stating that the fire protection systems are
installed in full compliance with NFPA standards, IBC/IFC requirements, and
that all acceptance tests have been conducted. This certificate must be
presented to the Fire Inspector at the time of the final acceptance test for
the system. The contractor shall also supply an NFPA 72 worksheet at the time
of the fire alarm acceptance test. (Ord. 2023-05, 3-16-2023)
8-1-14: REGULATION OF SPRINKLER SYSTEM PLANS AND SUBMITTAL CHECKLIST:
The following regulations and checklist establish a uniform approach for the
design community and provide owners and sprinkler system designers with
complete sprinkler system design and submittal package requirements. It is the
responsibility of the installer/designer to assure that all applicable code
requirements are followed. Any plans which are rejected and resubmitted will be
subject to payment of additional fees for additional plan review(s).
   (A)   Sprinkler Systems. The installation, renovation, addition, and/or
maintenance of any sprinkler system shall comply with the following:
      1.   Installation work shall be performed only after the plans have been
reviewed and approved by the village; and the department shall generally
complete a plan review within ten (10) business days of submittal to the
village.
      2.   Submittal Checklist All plans submitted shall contain the following:
         (a)   Proof of the contractor's license allowing the contractor to
work within the Village of River Grove.
         (b)   Proof that contractor is licensed to install sprinkler systems
with the Illinois Office of the State Fire Marshal.
         (c)   Applicable standards are as follows:
            (1)   NFPA 13 (2019 Edition).
            (2)   NFPA 13R (2019 Edition).
            (3)   NFPA 13D (2019 Edition).
            (4)   NFPA 14 (2019 Edition).
            (5)   NFPA 20 (2019 Edition).
            (6)   NFPA 25 (2017 Edition).
   (B)   Sprinkler System Drawings.
      1.   All sprinkler system drawings shall be submitted to the River Grove
Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau, 2601 N Thatcher, River Grove, II,
60171, which shall include three (3) complete sets of sprinkler systems
drawings, one (1) on CD in PDF format; and cut sheet/product information.
      2.   The scaled drawings must include the following:
         (a)   A title block that includes: (i) the property name and address;
(ii) the sprinkler company name/contractor name, address and phone number;
(iii) the date of drawing with space for revision dates; (iv) the
classification of the system per NFPA 13; (v) the name of the individual who
drew the drawing; and (vi) a detailed scope of work narrative.
         (b)   The specific type and quantity of sprinklers shall be set forth
on each page.
         (c)   All ceiling information including soffits, heights, construction
type, slope, etc., shall be identified and noted with cross section details on
the plans.
         (d)   Include a scaled site plan clearly showing the building fire
department connection location and fire hydrant locations.
Drawings need to be clear, legible, and understandable. Drawings must be of a
sprinkler system design only.
   (C)   Calculations.
      1.   Include hydraulic calculations which clearly show the friction loss
for the backflow preventer and include a graph curve sheet.
      2.   All fire hydrant flow test information shall be dated and not be
more than one (1) year old.
   (D)   Specification Sheets. All pertinent information shall be highlighted
on the sheet, and provide cut sheets for all devices installed. All sprinklers,
valves, etc., shall be included on the cut sheets.
   (E)   Rough Inspection. A rough inspection of all sprinkler piping shall be
done by the River Grove Fire Department prior to the installation of drywall
and/or ceiling materials. The installer shall contact the department to
schedule the inspection.
   (F)   Tests.
      1.   A flush of the underground water mains shall be made prior to the
connection to the sprinkler system. All such tests shall be witnessed by the
River Grove Fire Department.
      2.   All underground and overhead systems and piping shall be
hydrostatically tested with water at not less than 200 psi for two (2) hours.
This test must be witnessed by the River Grove Fire Department.
      3.   When the system is complete, a two inch (2") main drain test shall
be completed and witnessed by the River Grove Fire Department.
      4.   When the system is completed, a wet system inspector's test shall be
completed, and the inspector's test report shall be provided to the River Grove
Fire Department.
   (G)   Final Inspection. A final inspection shall be scheduled in compliance
with the following conditions:
      1.   No acceptance testing will be conducted prior to the completion of
construction; and a minimum of two (2) business days is needed to schedule
test.
      2.   Final acceptance is subject to field inspection.
      3.   Re-inspection fees will be charged for re-inspections needed due to
incomplete systems and/or failure to follow the above rules.
      4.   An appointment is needed to schedule a final inspection.
      5.   No inspection or testing will occur until all communicators are
operational and being monitored.
   (H)   Contractor Certification. The contractor must provide the River Grove
Fire Department with a certificate stating that the fire protection systems are
installed in full compliance with NFPA standards, and IBC/IFC requirements and
that all acceptance tests have been conducted. This certificate must be
presented to the Fire Inspector at the time of the final hydrostatic/
acceptance test. (Ord. 2023-05, 3-16-2023)
CHAPTER 2
LIFE SAFETY CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Adoption Of Code
8-2-2: Violations; Penalty
8-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The provisions and regulations contained in the NFPA 101, code for safety to
life from fire in buildings and structures, as published in book form by the
national fire protection association, 2006 edition, is hereby adopted by
reference as the life safety code of the village and are made a part hereof as
if fully set forth herein, with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Any regulation therein contained pertaining to any business or
activity which is expressly prohibited by another ordinance of the village
shall not be construed as repealing or otherwise affecting the prohibition of
that ordinance or permitting such business or activity so prohibited.
   (B)   Section 1.7.1 is amended to read: This code shall be administered and
enforced by the bureau of fire prevention.
   (C)   The supervision of fire protection systems and enforcement of fire
protection systems regulations shall be in accordance with the following
provisions:
      1.   Fire Protection Systems: All required automatic fire protection
systems shall be supervised by the village of River Grove communication center
by the means of wireless communication in accordance with chapter 9 of the
international fire code, section 901.6.1 and NFPA 72, and said systems shall
transmit both alarm and trouble signals.
      2.   Effective Date: All new fire protection systems required under this
code shall communicate via wireless communication. All existing fire protection
systems shall be converted to wireless communication by January 1, 2009. Any
person or entity failing to comply with this section shall be subject to the
penalty provisions provided in subsection (C)3 of this section.
      3.   Penalty: No person or persons except those connected with the
management or supervision of the same shall activate any fire protection system
unless it is to communicate an alarm of fire or other emergency, or derange or
in any manner meddle or interfere with any communication of or transmission by
such a system. Any person or entity violating this section shall be subject to
a penalty of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense or for each day there is a
failure to comply with the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Should any conflict exist between this code and other ordinances of
the village, that which is more restrictive shall control and prevail. (Ord.
2008-03, 2-21-2008)
8-2-2: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
It is unlawful to violate any of the provisions of this chapter or the
regulations hereby adopted or to maintain any premises so in violation. Any
violation shall constitute an offense, which shall subject the violator, upon
conviction, to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2008-03, 2-21-2008)
CHAPTER 3
TRUSS CONSTRUCTION FIRE SAFETY NOTIFICATION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Display Requirement For Truss Construction Emblem
8-3-3: Registration Requirements; Fee
8-3-4: Truss Construction Emblem
8-3-5: Violation And Penalty
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
TRUSS: A framed structural unit made up of a group of triangles arranged in a
single plane in such a manner that if loads are applied at the points of
intersection of the truss members, only compressive or tensile (nonbending)
forces will result in the members.
TRUSS CONSTRUCTION: A structure, excluding a residential structure, in which
the roof or floor is supported by trusses. (Ord. 2006-25, 9-7-2006)
8-3-2: DISPLAY REQUIREMENT FOR TRUSS CONSTRUCTION EMBLEM:
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real property located within the village
that is improved with truss construction, excluding residential structures,
shall be required to affix a truss construction emblem to the front of any such
structure, in the location as specified in section
8-3-4 of this chapter, as a condition of occupying said structure.
   (B)   The owner of any real property which is part of a planned unit
development or subdivision containing individual structures with truss
construction, excluding residential structures, shall be required to display
the truss construction emblem at each entrance to the development or
subdivision, as well as on each individual structure. (Ord. 2006-25, 9-7-2006)
8-3-3: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   (A)   The owner of those structures that require the display of a truss
construction emblem shall be required to register those structures with the
department of emergency services, which shall issue the truss construction
emblem specified hereinafter to those owners who have made application.
   (B)   Upon application for each truss construction emblem or the
registration of each truss construction structure, the owner of such structure
shall be required to pay to the village a fee in the amount of twenty five
dollars ($25.00), which fee shall cover the village's costs of identifying,
maintaining records for, and inspecting structures with truss construction, and
for reimbursement to the village for all other costs of implementing or
administering this chapter, and for reimbursement for the costs of the truss
construction emblem. (Ord. 2006-25, 9-7-2006)
8-3-4: TRUSS CONSTRUCTION EMBLEM:
   (A)   The truss construction emblem shall have a bright and reflective color
or be made of reflective material. The shape of the emblem shall be an
isosceles triangle and the size shall be twelve inches (12") horizontally by
six inches (6") vertically. The following letters shall be printed on the
emblem in a conspicuous size and color:
"F" to signify a floor with truss construction
"R" to signify a roof with truss construction
"F/R" to signify both a floor and roof with truss construction
   (B)   The emblem shall be permanently affixed to the left of the main
entrance door at a height between four feet (4') and six feet (6') above the
ground and shall be installed and maintained by the building owner or occupant.
(Ord. 2006-25, 9-7-2006)
8-3-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any terms of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. For purposes of this chapter, each day that the
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any
penalty for any offense under the provisions of this chapter shall not be
authorization for the continuance of such violation, and all such persons cited
under this chapter shall be required to correct all violations immediately.
(Ord. 2006-25, 9-7-2006)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE EXTINGUISHER SERVICES LICENSE
SECTION:
8-4-1: License Required
8-4-2: License Application
8-4-3: Issuance Of License
8-4-4: License Fee
8-4-5: License Renewal
8-4-6: Violation; Penalty
8-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or entity shall engage in the business of servicing fire
extinguishers without first having obtained a license as provided in this
Chapter. No such license shall be issued to any applicant that has not
presented a current and a valid State of Illinois license issued pursuant to
the Fire Equipment Distributor and Employee Regulation Act of 2011, as amended.
225 ILCS 217/1. The licensing requirement applies to any services related to
the selection, installation, inspection, maintenance, and testing of portable
extinguishing equipment and kitchen suppression systems. All licensed
technicians shall be listed under the company with each technician’s license
number; and verify if a technician is certified in portable extinguishers,
kitchen suppression systems, or both. (Ord. 2021-20, 6-3-2021)
8-4-2: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Every applicant for a license as a fire extinguisher serviceman shall file with
the Director of Emergency Services a written application, signed by the
applicant, stating the applicant’s address, age, present occupation, business
activities during the previous five years, experience with the repair,
recharging, testing and use of fire extinguishers, knowledge of the laws,
regulations and ordinances pertaining to fire extinguishers and such other
information as the Director of Emergency Services may deem to be necessary or
appropriate. (Ord. 2021-20, 6-3-2021)
8-4-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
A license shall be granted to all qualified applicants who have delivered to
the Director of Emergency Services satisfactory evidence of the existence of a
commercial general liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to insure in Illinois, insuring the public in an amount of not less
than $1,000,000.00 per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and
property damage arising in any way from the issuance of the license or
activities conducted pursuant to the license. The insurance coverage shall
include products and completed operations liability. The insurance policy
required under this section shall: (1) name the Village of River Grove as
additional insured on a primary, noncontributory basis for any liability
arising directly or indirectly from the licensee’s operations; and (2) be in
full force and effect throughout the duration of the license. (Ord. 2021-20, 6-
3-2021)
8-4-4: LICENSE FEE:
Upon approval by the Director of Emergency Services of an application for a
license under this Chapter and the acceptance of the commercial general
liability insurance policy, the Director of Emergency Services shall forward
such approved application to the Clerks’ Office. Upon payment of an annual
license fee of $50.00, a license shall be issued. Such license shall expire on
the thirty-first day of December of the year in which it is issued. The
Director of Emergency Services shall cause all licensees’ information to be
kept on a database readily accessible by first response agencies. (Ord. 2021-
20, 6-3-2021)
8-4-5: LICENSE RENEWAL:
Any license issued under this Chapter may be renewed upon payment of an annual
renewal fee of $50.00. Any change of address of the licensee or any change of
licensee’s employer shall be reported within ten (10) days to the Director of
Emergency Services. (Ord. 2021-20, 6-3-2021)
8-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who or entity which violates any provision of this Chapter shall be
fined up to $750.00 for each offense. (Ord. 2021-20, 6-3-2021)
TITLE IX
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ARRESTS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Police to Arrest
9-1-2: Arrests Without Process
9-1-3: Keeper of Jail to Receive Prisoners
9-1-4: Recovery of Fines
9-1-5: Commitment
9-1-6: Practice
9-1-7: Officers to Attend as Witnesses
9-1-1: POLICE TO ARREST:
The several members of the Police Force of the Village are hereby severally
authorized to arrest with or without process, or on view, any person or persons
who may break the Peace or violate any of the laws of said Village, when they
have reasonable grounds for believing that delay will permit the escape of the
person committing such violation, and to take such person or persons forthwith
before the Police Magistrate of said Village, or any Justice of the Peace of
Cook County, in the State of Illinois, or in case such arrest is made on
Sunday, or in the night, to detain such person or persons in custody over night
or over Sunday in the Village Jail, until such person or persons can be brought
before said Police Magistrate or Justice for trial. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A.
  11-1-1
9-1-2: ARRESTS WITHOUT PROCESS:
Whenever any person shall be arrested without process or on view, for breaking
the Peace or violating any of the laws of said Village, and shall be taken as
aforesaid, before the Police Magistrate or any Justice of the Peace, as
prescribed in Section
9-1-1 of this Chapter, such Magistrate or Justice shall note upon his docket
the cause of such arrest, as stated by the Officer making such arrest, and
proceed to hear and determine the case in the same manner as if the defendant
had been arrested by warrant; or may continue the case upon application of
either the defendant or Village Attorney, or other Official of the Village,
having charge of said case, for lawful cause, as provided in other actions
before Justices of the Peace, in which case, if the defendant shall give bond
payable to the Village, and conditioned for the appearance of the defendant
before the Magistrate or Justice hearing the cause, on the day and at the place
named therein, and his abiding the order of the said Magistrate or Justice, and
not departing the court without leave, with security, and in a sum to be
approved by such Magistrate or Justice, he shall be discharged from the custody
of the Officer making the arrest; otherwise he shall in the discretion of the
Justice or Magistrate, be committed to the Village Jail, or other place of
confinement provided for the imprisonment of offenders against the laws of said
Village, or remain in custody of the Officer making the arrest, until the time
of the trial of the case. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A.
  3-9-4
9-1-3: KEEPER OF JAIL TO RECEIVE PRISONERS:
In all cases of arrest on view or for a violation of the provisions of this
Code, in which detention in custody of the person so arrested shall be
authorized, it shall be the duty of the keeper of the Village Jail or other
place of confinement, to receive, and he is hereby authorized and empowered to
receive from any Officer empowered to make such arrests, any such person or
persons, and him, her or them, to safely keep until such person or persons can
be safely brought before the Police Magistrate of said Village, or some justice
of the peace of said Cook County, and be tried for such violation in the manner
prescribed by law.
9-1-4: RECOVERY OF FINES:
All fines, forfeitures, penalties and costs imposed against any person for the
breach of any law, may be recovered before the police magistrate or any justice
of the peace of said Cook County, by action of debt in the name of the Village,
and judgements may be rendered thereon, and collected by execution or other
process, as other judgements of justice of the peace are rendered and
collected, and such fines, forfeitures and penalties, when collected, shall be
paid over to the Treasurer of said Village within ten (10) days from the time
of the receipt thereof by such police magistrate or justice of the peace, and
that every police magistrate or justice of the peace in this Village shall make
a report in writing to the Board of Trustees at each regular meeting, showing a
record of all fines, forfeitures, and penalties by him collected, and no such
police magistrate or justice of the peace shall remit any fine, forfeiture or
penalty imposed upon any person or persons wherein the Village is party
plaintiff or in any way interested, without the written consent of the Board of
Trustees.
9-1-5: COMMITMENT:
In all cases when judgements shall be rendered against any person convicted of
a violation of any provision of this Code, and such person shall fail or refuse
forthwith such fine or penalty, they shall be committed to the Jail or other
place of imprisonment authorized by the Board of Trustees, and be imprisoned
therein, and shall be required to work at such labor as his or her strength
will permit, not to exceed ten (10) hours each day; and for such work the
person so employed or worked, shall be allowed, exclusive of his or her Board,
the sum of two dollars ($2.00) for each days work on account of such fine or
forfeiture penalty or costs, until such fine, forfeiture, penalty or costs,
shall be fully satisfied; provided no such imprisonment shall continue longer
than six (6) months for any one offense. And in such case, whether by
satisfaction as aforesaid, or by the expiration of six months from the
commencement of such imprisonment, the keeper of said place of confinement,
shall endorse the writ of commitment, "Satisfied in full by imprisonment", and
discharge such person or persons from his custody. Commitment of any person
shall be by process, under the hand of the court which shall have made the
order for such commitment.
9-1-6: PRACTICE:
The manner of conducting trials, granting continuances and changes of Venue,
subpoenaing witnesses, summoning and impaneling juries, and taking appeals,
shall be the same as in civil cases before justices of the peace, except that
the Appeal shall be taken to the Criminal Court of Cook County.
9-1-7: OFFICERS TO ATTEND AS WITNESSES:
All officers making arrests shall attend as witnesses, before the court where
trial may be had, and shall procure all necessary evidence in their power, and
furnish a list of witnesses to the court, and no Village officer shall be
entitled to any witness fee to be taxed against the Village on any action for a
violation of any law where the Village is plaintiff. (Ch. LV, Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Nuisances Defined
9-2-2: Houses Of Ill Fame
9-2-3: Attractive Nuisance
9-2-4: Inspections
9-2-5: President May Abate Nuisance
9-2-6: Emitting Dense Smoke
9-2-7: Signboards And Billboards
9-2-8: Public Address System
9-2-9: Loudspeakers
9-2-10: Rubbish
9-2-11: Fines And Penalties
9-2-12: Inoperable Motor Vehicles
9-2-13: Driving Upon Sidewalk
9-2-14: Obstructing Traffic
9-2-1: NUISANCES DEFINED:
In addition to those activities and conditions which are elsewhere declared to
be and constitute nuisances, it is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To so negligently conduct any business or use any premises as to
create such an offensive smell as may taint the air and render it unwholesome
or disagreeable to the neighborhood.
   (B)   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal, or any animal or
vegetable matter, slops, swill, suds, garbage, filth, stable drippings or offal
or noisome substance of any kind to be collected, deposited or remain in any
place to the prejudice of others.
   (C)   To deposit night soil, dead animals or other filthy, offensive or
noisome substance upon any lot, parkway, street, alley, highway, park or other
place.
   (D)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any portion of
the municipal water system, drinking hydrant, spring, stream or pond to the
injury or prejudice of others.
   (E)   To obstruct or encroach upon any public highways, private ways,
streets, alleys, parkways and commons.
   (F)   To establish, maintain or carry on any offensive or unwholesome
business within the limits of the village.
   (G)   To establish a cemetery within the corporate limits of the village of
River Grove without first having obtained permission so to do.
   (H)   For any person to permit or suffer any slops, swill, garbage, stable
drippings, offal, refuse, animal or vegetable matter, which is liable to become
putrid or offensive or injurious to health, to remain on any premises used or
occupied by the person, for a longer period than four (4) hours at any one
time.
   (I)   To keep or suffer to be kept any chicken coop, cow house, stable,
cellar, vault drain, pool, privy, sewer or sink, upon any premises belonging to
or occupied by the person, or any railroad car, building, yard, grounds and
premises belonging to or occupied by the person.
   (J)   To own, keep or use any railroad car, yard, pen, place or premises in
or upon which cattle or swine or other nonhousehold pets are to be confined or
kept so as to be offensive to those residing in the vicinity, or an annoyance
to others.
   (K)   To erect, continue or use any building or other place for the exercise
of any trade, employment or manufacture which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals or of the public.
   (L)   To locate and carry on, without having obtained permission of the
village board of trustees so to do, any packinghouse or renderies within the
limits of said village.
   (M)   To locate without first having obtained permission of the board of
trustees so to do, any brewery or distillery.
   (N)   To maintain any premises within the village in such condition that it
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
   (O)   To maintain any premises within the village in such condition that it
is dangerous to the public health and which may cause or aid in the spread of
disease or injury to the health and welfare of the occupants of it or
neighboring premises.
   (P)   For any person to permit a domestic animal owned, kept or maintained
by the person to be on property owned or maintained by another, without the
consent of such person, or to permit such animal to deposit thereon bodily
excrement, either solid or liquid.
   (Q)   For any person to slaughter or kill any animal, or keep or maintain or
use any house or place in which the business of slaughtering any such animals
may be carried on in the village.
For the purpose of this section, one who owns, keeps or maintains a domestic
animal which is running at large shall be deemed to have permitted the
prohibited conduct. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-2009)
9-2-2: HOUSES OF ILL FAME:
Every house of ill fame or assignation, where men and/or women resort for the
purpose of prostitution is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-
18-2009)
9-2-3: ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person to so negligently
maintain his property or premises, whether vacant or improved, so as to render
it unwholesome or disagreeable to the neighbors, or to constitute what is
legally defined as an "attractive nuisance" through the existence of which
children of tender years may or might be attracted and become injured or
otherwise hurt, maimed, or mentally disordered. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-2009)
9-2-4: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the president of the board of trustees, to make or
cause to be made such inspections by the building commissioner or other code
enforcement officer as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-2009)
9-2-5: PRESIDENT MAY ABATE NUISANCE:
Whenever any nuisance exists, or shall be found on any premises the president
is hereby authorized in his or her discretion to cause the same to be summarily
abated in such a manner as he or she may direct, and at the expense of the
party permitting or maintaining said nuisance. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-2009)
9-2-6: EMITTING DENSE SMOKE:
To allow or permit any dense smoke to come or to be emitted from the smokestack
of any locomotive, steamroller, steam derrick, steam pile driver, tar kettle or
any other similar machine or contrivance, or from any smokestack of any
building or premises, or from any fire pit or other container shall be and is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be summarily abated by the president,
building commissioner, director of public works, or by anyone whom they or any
of them may authorize for such purpose.
Such abatement may be in addition to the fine hereinafter provided. Any person
owning, operating or in charge or control of any locomotive, steamroller, steam
derrick, steam pile driver, tar kettle or other similar machine or contrivance,
or of any building or premises, who shall cause or permit the emission of dense
smoke from the smokestack or chimney of any of the aforesaid machines or
contrivances, or from the smokestack or chimney of any building or premises, or
from any fire pit or container so owned, controlled or in charge of him, her or
them, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter, and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
or more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; and each
day of such offense shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-
2009)
9-2-7: SIGNBOARDS AND BILLBOARDS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post,
attach or affix any bill, advertisement, poster or placard, of any kind or
character, on any public property within this village, and it shall be unlawful
to post, attach or affix any bill, advertisement, poster or placard, of any
kind or character, on any property within this village without the prior
written consent of the owner thereof.
   (B)   The posting, attaching or affixing of any bill, advertisement, poster
or placard to any property in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to
be a defacement of such property, and the same may be forthwith removed by the
village. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-2009)
9-2-8: PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM:
The use of a public address system in all public places shall be allowed
providing the place of installation of such public address system shall be
soundproof in such a manner that the sounds and noises emanating from such
equipment shall not constitute a public nuisance. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-2009)
9-2-9: LOUDSPEAKERS:
No person shall operate, use, or permit to be used in or upon any residential
or business premises or property, any loudspeaker, amplifier or microphone
hookup used to amplify music, entertainers or local broadcasting device so as
to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood in which said place or
business is located, and each and every day that this chapter shall be violated
shall be construed and considered as a separate offense thereof. (Ord. 2009-08,
6-18-2009)
9-2-10: RUBBISH:
No person shall throw branches, leaves, grass cuttings or other rubbish onto
the gutters of the public streets. All rubbish shall otherwise be disposed of
in accordance with title IV, chapter 15 of this code. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-2009)
9-2-11: FINES AND PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs
or continues. (Ord. 2009-08, 6-18-2009)
9-2-12: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES:
   (A)   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-40-3, all inoperable
motor vehicles, whether on public or private property and in view of the
general public, are deemed a nuisance and fines shall be levied for the failure
of any person to obey a notice received from the village which states that the
owner or person having control and use of the vehicle is to dispose of any
inoperable motor vehicles under his or her control. The owner or person in
control of the inoperable vehicle(s) shall abate the nuisance by disposing of
the vehicle(s) within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice.
   (B)   In the event that the owner or person having control over the
inoperable vehicle(s) fails to abate the nuisance in a timely manner, the
police department shall remove, after thirty (30) days from the issuance of the
notice of the violation, any inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof.
However, nothing in this section shall apply to any motor vehicle that is kept
within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over twenty
five (25) years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of
business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
   (C)   As used in this section, "inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor
vehicle from which, for a period of at least thirty (30) days, the engine,
wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or
other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle
is incapable of being driven under its own motor power. "Inoperable motor
vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily
incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform
ordinary service or repair operations.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 2009-13, 11-19-2009)
9-2-13: DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK:
Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1412.1, no person shall drive
any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly
authorized temporary driveway. This section does not apply to any vehicle moved
exclusively by human power, to any electric personal assistive mobility device,
nor to any motorized wheelchair. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
limit or preempt the authority of the corporate authorities from regulating or
prohibiting the use of electric personal assistive mobility devices. Any
person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord.
2009-13, 11-19-2009)
9-2-14: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1425, no driver shall enter an
intersection or a marked crosswalk or drive onto any railroad grade crossing
unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection,
crosswalk or railroad grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle he or she is
operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or
railroad trains notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to
proceed. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2009-13, 11-19-2009)
CHAPTER 2.5
NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
9-2.5-1: Definition
9-2.5-2: Duty to Maintain
9-2.5-3: Exterior Storage Prohibited
9-2.5-4: Abatement by Owners
9-2.5-5: Penalty
9-2.5-6: Abatement by Village
9-2.5-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Ordinance, the term "nuisance" is defined to mean any
condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is detrimental to
the property of others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution
in the value of other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are
located. This includes, but is not limited to, the keeping or the depositing
on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the following:
   (A)   Lumber, junk, trash or debris;
   (B)   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
9-2.5-2: DUTY TO MAINTAIN:
No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any person keep or maintain
such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of the
other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located.
9-2.5-3: EXTERIOR STORAGE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Non Operative Vehicles. No person in charge of or in control of
premises, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise shall allow
any partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded or otherwise nonoperating
motor vehicle to remain on such property longer than ten (10) days; and no
person shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the Village for a
longer time than ten (10) days; except that this Section shall not apply with
regard to any vehicle in an enclosed building or so located upon the premises
as not to be readily visible from any public place or from any surrounding
private property. This Ordinance shall further not apply to a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the Village or any other public agency or entity.
   (B)   Other Property. Exterior storage of any other vehicles, machinery,
implements and/or equipment and personal property of any kind which is no
longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, for a
period of ten (10) days or more (except in licensed junk yards) within the
corporate limits of this Village is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
dangerous to the public safety.
9-2.5-4: ABATEMENT BY OWNERS:
The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any premises within the
corporate limits of this Village upon which such storage is made, and also the
owner, owners and/or lessees of said personalty involved in such storage (all
of whom are hereinafter referred to collectively as "owners"), shall jointly
and severally abate said nuisance by the prompt removal of said personalty into
completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes,
if within the corporate limits of the Village, or otherwise to remove it to a
location without said corporate limits.
9-2.5-5: PENALTY:
Penalty For Failure of Owner to Abate Such Nuisance. If said owners allow said
nuisance to exist or fail to abate said nuisance they, and each of them, upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such nuisance
is permitted to exist.
9-2.5-6: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
Whenever said owners fail to abate said nuisance then the Village shall remove
the said personalty to a location of its selection, the expenses therefor to be
billed to said owners, jointly and severally, said bill to be recoverable in a
suit at law.
When said personalty has been removed and placed in storage by the Village, as
provided for herein, said personalty shall be sold by the Village after the
lapse of such time as is provided by law, or if none prescribed, then after the
lapse of thirty (30) days. If the proceeds of such sale are insufficient to pay
the costs of abatement said owners shall be liable to the Village for the
balance of the costs, jointly and severally, to be recoverable in a suit at
law. If the proceeds are in excess of costs the balance shall be paid to said
owners, or deposited in the Village Treasury for their use. (Ord. 1970-2; 2-26-
70)
CHAPTER 3
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Vagrants
9-3-2: Fighting; Immoral Exhibitions
9-3-3: Improper Dress; Indecent Exposure
9-3-4: Cruelty To Animals
9-3-5: Intoxication; Soliciting Alms
9-3-6: Medicine Under Fraudulent Name
9-3-7: Poisons
9-3-8: Scaffolds
9-3-9: Assault
9-3-10: Assault And Battery
9-3-11: Disorderly Conduct
9-3-12: Indecent, Lewd Or Filthy Acts Or Abusive Language
9-3-13: Disturbing Religious Worship
9-3-14: Breaking Or Carrying Away Public Lamps Or Posts, Hitching Horses
Thereto
9-3-15: Hand Organs
9-3-16: Whistles
9-3-17: Shooting Or Throwing At Birds Or Squirrels, Taking Bird Eggs
9-3-18: Jumping On Or Off Locomotive While In Motion
9-3-19: Houses Of Ill Fame
9-3-20: Books Or Pamphlets, Relating To Venereal Diseases
9-3-21: Printed Material; Unlawful
9-3-22: Samples Of Prescriptions
9-3-23: Billposting
9-3-24: Throwing Materials Into Streets
9-3-25: Obstructing Water Passages
9-3-26: Defacing Buildings
9-3-27: Throwing Stones At Buildings
9-3-28: Obstructing Street Corners
9-3-29: Removing Sod
9-3-30: Barbed Wire; Spikes; Nails
9-3-31: Burglar Tools
9-3-32: Booths And Stands In Streets
9-3-33: Bawdyhouses
9-3-34: Destroying Or Breaking
9-3-35: Shooting Firearms; Explosives
9-3-36: Additional Penalty
9-3-37: Destroying Village Property Or Private Property
9-3-38: Children On Streets At Curfew
9-3-39: Dumping On Property Of Others Or Of Uncollectible Materials
9-3-40: Smoking In Stores And Elevators
9-3-41: Theft
9-3-42: Narcotic Drugs
9-3-43: Encouraging/Contributing To The Delinquency Of Minors
9-3-44: Trespassing
9-3-1: VAGRANTS:
All idle persons without visible means of support and living without lawful
employment, all persons habitually and idly loitering about or wandering abroad
and visiting or staying about grocery or cigar stores or railroad depots, or
lodging in outhouses, marketplaces, sheds, barns or other buildings or in open
air, and not giving a good account of themselves, all persons wandering abroad
or who go about from door to door or who place themselves in the streets or
other public places to beg or receive alms, or who shall be found trespassing
upon the private premises of others, and all persons who go about for the
purpose of gambling or who shall have in their possession any article or thing
used for obtaining money under false pretenses, or who shall disturb any place
where public or private schools are held, or any place of worship, shall be
deemed vagrants. (Ch. LXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-2: FIGHTING; IMMORAL EXHIBITIONS:
No person shall cause, instigate or procure any dogfight, cockfight, or any
public fighting by persons or animals, or in any manner instigate, cause,
procure or assist in any indecent or immoral show or exhibition of any animal.
(Ch. LXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-3: IMPROPER DRESS; INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place in a state of
nudity or in a dress not belonging to his or her sex, or in an indecent or lewd
dress, or to make any indecent exposure of his or her person, or be guilty of
any lewd or indecent act or behavior, or to exhibit, sell or offer to sell any
indecent or lewd book, picture or other thing, or exhibit or perform any
indecent, immoral or lewd play or representation. (Ch. LXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-4: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
Any person who shall inhumanely unnecessarily or cruelly beat, injure or
otherwise abuse any dumb animal or overload any horse, team or other animal, or
expose any calves or sheep upon the streets or sidewalks with their legs tied,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ch. LXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-5: INTOXICATION; SOLICITING ALMS:
If any person shall be in a state of intoxication in any highway, street, alley
or thoroughfare or public place, to the annoyance of any citizen or person, or
shall solicit alms from any person without written permission from the
president, he, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ch. LXIV; Rev. Ord.
1939)
9-3-6: MEDICINE UNDER FRAUDULENT NAME:
No doctor, druggist or other person shall make, sell or put up, prepare or
administer any prescription, decoction or medicine under any deceptive or
fraudulent name, direction or pretense. (Ch. LXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-7: POISONS:
No poisonous medicine, decoction or substance shall be held for sale or sold,
except for lawful purposes and with proper motives and by persons competent to
give the proper directions and precautions as to the use of the same, nor shall
any bottle, box, parcel or receptacle thereof be delivered to any person unless
the same is marked "Poison" nor to any persons whom the party delivering the
same has reason to think intends it for any illegal or improper use or purpose.
9-3-8: SCAFFOLDS:
All scaffolds erected for use in the erection of stone, brick or other
buildings shall be well and safely supported, and of sufficient width and
properly secured so as to insure the safety of persons working thereon or
passing under or by the same, to prevent the falling thereof or of any material
that may be used, placed or deposited thereon; any scaffold which may be
otherwise erected shall be deemed a nuisance.
9-3-9: ASSAULT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to in anyway assault another person.
9-3-10: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
Every person who shall commit an assault and battery upon the person of another
shall on conviction be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
9-3-11: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Any person who shall be guilty of disorderly conduct or shall make, aid,
countenance or assist in making any improper noise, riot, disturbance, breach
of the peace or diversion tending to a breach of the peace, in the streets or
elsewhere in this Village, or shall in loud and violent language advise any
person to assault or beat the person of another, within the limits of the
Village, and all persons who shall collect in bodies or crowds for unlawful
purposes or for any purpose to the annoyance or disturbance of citizens or
travelers, or other persons, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 1
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 11-5-3
9-3-12: INDECENT, LEWD OR FILTHY ACTS OR ABUSIVE LANGUAGE:
Any person who shall commit any indecent, lewd or filthy act in any place in
the Village, or shall utter any lewd or filthy words, or use any threatening or
abusive language toward any person, tending to a breach of the peace, or shall
make any obscene gesture, to or about, any other person publicly, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
9-3-13: DISTURBING RELIGIOUS WORSHIP:
Any person who shall disquiet or disturb any congregation or assembly met for
religious worship by making a noise or by rude or indecent behavior or profane
language within their place of worship, or so near the same as to disturb the
order and solemnity of the meeting, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
9-3-14: BREAKING OR CARRYING AWAY PUBLIC LAMPS OR POSTS, HITCHING HORSES
THERETO:
Any person who shall carelessly or maliciously break, deface, carry away or in
any way injure or destroy any public lamp or lamp post or any sign, gate,
sidewalk or fence in this Village, or climb upon or hitch any horse or other
animal to any public lamp post or hang or place any goods or merchandise
thereon, or place any goods, boxes, wood or any other heavy material upon or
against the same, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
9-3-15: HAND ORGANS:
No person shall use or perform with any hand organ or other musical instrument
for pay, or in expectation of payment in any of the streets or public places
before nine o'clock A.M. or after nine o'clock P.M. of each day. (Ch. LXIV;
Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-16: WHISTLES:
It shall be unlawful to blow or cause to be blown any steam whistle of any
locomotive or steam engine except such as may be absolutely necessary to avoid
injury to persons or property. (1961)
9-3-17: SHOOTING OR THROWING AT BIRDS OR SQUIRRELS; TAKING BIRDS EGGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or wound or attempt to kill or
wound by the use of fire arms, sling shot, bow and arrow, pelting with stones
or otherwise, any bird or squirrel, or attempt to kill or wound by the use of
fire arms, sling shot, arrows, or throwing stones or clubs or other missiles at
any bird or squirrel, within any private grounds or public parks, squares or
grounds (such bird or squirrel not being the property of the person so
offending) or take the eggs or young of any bird, or enter upon any private
enclosure or public ground for the purpose of doing any act so prohibited.
9-3-18: JUMPING ON OR OFF LOCOMOTIVE WHILE IN MOTION:
No person shall get upon or off, or attempt to get upon or off any locomotive
engine, tender, car, street car, electric car, or any train of cars, or any
platform or step thereof, while the same or either of them are in motion. Any
violation hereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than two dollars
($2.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense.
9-3-19: HOUSES OF ILL FAME:
No person shall establish, keep or maintain, or be an inmate of or in any way
connected with, or in any way contribute to the support of any rooms or house
of ill fame or assignation. Every person found in any house of ill fame or
assignation shall be considered an inmate within the meaning of this Section.
9-3-20: BOOKS OR PAMPHLETS, RELATING TO VENEREAL DISEASES:
No person shall sell or offer to sell, give away or offer to give away, or have
in his or her possession with intent to distribute, give away or sell, any
book, pamphlet, circular, hand bill, advertisement or notice of any kind,
purporting to treat or treating of diseases known as venereal diseases,
describing or explaining or purporting to describe or explain, the genital
organs, giving or purporting to give the nature and remedies of diseases
peculiar to males and females, or the nature and causes of nervous debility,
syphilis, impotency, sterility or barrenness, gonorrhea, gleet, stricture,
affection of the prostate gland or the remedies therefore, or the cause or
remedies for abortion or miscarriage, or articles or means of preventing
conception.
9-3-21: PRINTED MATERIAL; UNLAWFUL:
No person or persons shall sell or offer to sell, give away or offer to give
away, sell or distribute or have in his or her possession with intent to give
away, sell or distribute any book, pamphlet, circular or hand bill or
advertisement of any kind giving or purporting to give information from whom or
where medicine or any thing whatever can be obtained for the cure, prevention
or treatment of uterine diseases or diseases peculiar to males or females,
venereal diseases or diseases of the genital organs, or nervous debility,
impotency, sterility or barrenness, gonorrhea, gleet, stricture, syphilis,
affection of the prostate gland, abortion or miscarriage, or articles or means
of preventing conception, or distribute, sell or give away any obscene
advertisement, cut or drawing.
9-3-22: SAMPLES OF PRESCRIPTIONS:
No person shall sell or offer to sell, give away or offer to give away
distribute or have in his or her possession with the intent to give away, sell
or distribute or cause the same to be done, any samples of any prescription,
decoction or medicine in any form whatever.
9-3-23: BILLPOSTING:
No person shall post or paint any advertisement upon any private wall, door,
gate, tree or fence (without consent in writing first obtained from the owner
of such wall, door, gate, post, tree or fence) or any advertisement or any
public notice except of a legal or general character, upon any curbstone,
flagging, gutter stone, sidewalk, gateway, telegraph post, fire plug, hydrant,
wooden or iron railing or fence of any public grounds or buildings, without the
previous written permission of the President.
9-3-24: THROWING MATERIALS INTO STREETS:
No person shall throw, cast or put into, drop or leave on any street, alley or
sidewalk, public place or any enclosed public grounds, any stone, missile,
nails, ice, glass, iron or other metal, or any other article or thing except
ashes on unimproved streets, or alleys, by which horses, mules or other
quadrupeds, bipeds, or vehicles may be injured or endangered.
9-3-25: OBSTRUCTING WATER PASSAGES:
No person shall maliciously stop or obstruct the passage of the water of any
street or public sewer, culvert, water pipe or hydrant laid or placed by the
Village or other person or corporation under authority from the Village.
9-3-26: DEFACING BUILDINGS:
No person shall cut, mark, injure or deface any building not his own, any tree,
grass, shrub or walk in any square, street or public park, or any sewer, water
pipe or hydrant laid or placed by the Village. However, this Section shall not
apply to the trimming of trees by the proper Village authorities.
9-3-27: THROWING STONES AT BUILDINGS:
No person shall throw or cast any stone or other missile upon or at any
building, railroad car or other public or private property or upon or at any
person in any street, avenue, alley, lane, public place or enclosed or
unenclosed ground in this Village, or aid or abet the same.
9-3-28: OBSTRUCTING STREET CORNERS:
No person shall obstruct or encumber any depot, railroad platform, street
corner or other public place in the Village by lounging in or about the same,
and after being directed to move on by any police officer, the person so
offending shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
9-3-29: REMOVING SOD:
No person shall cut, dig or remove any sod, gravel, sand or earth from any
public place within the Village, without a permit from the President, or from
any premises not his own, without the consent of the owner.
9-3-30: BARBED WIRE; SPIKES; NAILS:
No person being the owner, lessee or agent of any building, shall erect or
maintain or permit to be erected or maintained, on or about the stairway or the
entrance to such building, or on or about its exterior building line, or upon
any portion of the sidewalk adjacent to such building, any railing, fence,
guard or protection of any kind of barbed wire, or upon which railing, fence,
guard or other protection, there shall be affixed or placed or in any manner
attached, any spike, nail or other pointed instrument of any kind or
description, and each and every day any such person shall fail or neglect to
remove from such railing, fence or other protection, any such spike, nail or
other pointed instrument, after notice in writing from any officer of the
Village so to do, shall constitute a new, separate and distinct offense.
9-3-31: BURGLAR TOOLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession any nippers, of
the description known as burglars nippers, pick lock, skeleton key, key to be
used with a bit, jimmy or other burglars instrument or tools, of whatever kind
or description, unless it be known that such possession is innocent, or for
lawful purpose.
9-3-32: BOOTHS AND STANDS IN STREETS:
No person shall erect any booth, or establish or fix any stand for the sale of
fruit, books or other merchandise, or any article or thing of value, whatever,
encumbering any part or portion of the streets or sidewalks, provided that the
board of trustees may grant permits for such purpose whenever the application
for such permits shall be accompanied by the consent in writing of every person
occupying the premises in front of which it is proposed to locate under such
permission; such permits to be in force during the pleasure of the board of
trustees only. (Ch. LXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-33: BAWDYHOUSES:
Every person who shall maintain or keep any bawdy or disorderly house or other
place where any person is permitted or suffered to make any improper noise or
disturbance, or any house or other place where any minor is permitted to drink
intoxicating drinks of any kind, or play with dice, dominoes, cards, balls or
other articles used in gaming, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ch.
LXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-34: DESTROYING OR BREAKING:
Any person who shall carelessly or maliciously break, deface, disturb,
interfere with, carry away, or in any way injure or destroy any electric light
lamp, globe or any part of or appurtenance to any lamp or light of any kind
used in, upon or about any street, alley or public place, or who shall
carelessly or maliciously break, injure, destroy or in anyway interfere with
any electric light, telephone or telegraph wire, or any appurtenance thereto,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ch. LXIV; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-3-35: SHOOTING FIREARMS; EXPLOSIVES:
No person shall fire or discharge any cannon, gun or fowling piece, pistol,
slingshot, bow gun, air gun, air pistol, or firearms of any description, or
fire, explode or set off any squib, cracker or other thing containing powder or
other combustible or explosive material, without permission of the president,
which permission shall limit the time of such firing, and shall be subject to
be revoked by the board of trustees at any time after it has been granted. (11-
20-47)
9-3-36: ADDITIONAL PENALTY:
In all cases arising under this chapter the court or magistrate before whom
conviction may be had, shall have power in addition to the penalty or fine
imposed, to cause the offenders to be imprisoned for a period of not exceeding
six (6) months, in the discretion of such court or magistrate. (Ch. LXIV; Rev.
Ord. 1939)
9-3-37: DESTROYING VILLAGE PROPERTY OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to break, deface, injure or destroy any
property of the state, county or village, or any person or private corporation
within the village. (2-5-40)
9-3-38: CHILDREN ON STREETS AT CURFEW:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of seventeen (17) years to be
upon any public way in the village between the hours of eleven thirty o'clock
(11:30) p.m. Friday and six o'clock (6:00) a.m. Saturday, or between the hours
of eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) p.m. Saturday and six o'clock (6:00) a.m.
Sunday, or between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) p.m. and six o'clock
(6:00) a.m. on any other day of the week, unless accompanied by, and in the
charge of, a parent, guardian, or other proper companion of the age of twenty-
one (21) years or more, or unless engaged in some occupation or business in
which such child may lawfully engage under the statutes of this state.
Any police officer finding a child violating the provisions of this section
shall warn the child to desist immediately from such violation and shall
promptly report the violation to his superior officer who shall cause a written
notice to be served upon the parent, guardian, or person in charge of such
child, setting forth the manner in which this section has been violated. Any
parent, guardian, or person in charge of such child who shall knowingly permit
such child again to violate the provisions of this section after receiving
notice of the first violation, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(2-20-58; amd. Ord. 2020-09, 5-7-2020)
9-3-39: DUMPING ON PROPERTY OF OTHERS OR OF UNCOLLECTIBLE MATERIALS:
   (A)   It is unlawful to dump, deposit or place any garbage, rubbish, trash,
refuse or any other material upon real property owned by another without the
consent of the owner or person in possession of such real property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, including residential owners, to dump,
deposit or place mixed garbage, refuse, recyclables or yard waste; tree limbs
and logs with a trunk diameter in excess of four inches (4"); hazardous
materials, such as, but not limited to, chemicals, solvents, paints or
petroleum based products; tires and automobile parts; and any construction or
demolition materials or debris that results from work performed by a private
contractor, professional service, or resident in any garbage container or
receptacle which is collected during regularly scheduled garbage collections
for single-family residential properties.
   (C)   Every person, whether acting as an owner, employee of the owner, or
whether acting as a mere agent or independent contractor for the owner, who
violates this provision shall be punished by a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) but not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
which a violation occurs or exists. (Ord. 2006-18, 7-6-2006)
9-3-40: SMOKING IN STORES AND ELEVATORS:
It is hereby found and declared that public elevators and large retail stores
where merchandise is displayed and offered for sale attract crowds within
relatively small areas and that smoking in such places is a menace to public
health, safety and property. It is unlawful for any person to smoke or carry a
lighted cigarette, cigar or pipe in any public elevator or in any retail store
in which more than fifteen (15) persons are employed, excluding areas set apart
for serving food or beverages, waiting and rest rooms, executive offices,
beauty parlors, and other rooms or areas where merchandise is not exposed.
The owner or occupant of all stores, business and other premises affected by
this section shall immediately post signs, conspicuously located, in all
portions of their premises giving notice of these restrictions hereby imposed.
(Ord. 1968-4, 1968)
9-3-41: THEFT:
   (A)   Acts Considered Theft: A person commits theft when he knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably reduce
him to believe that the property was stolen; and
         (a) Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
         (b) Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
         (c) Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (B)   Penalty: A person first convicted of theft of property not from the
person and not exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in value shall be
fined not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned in a penal
institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed six (6) months, or both.
   (C)   Definitions: Words and terms contained in this section shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15,
said article being hereby incorporated in and made part of this section. (Ord.
1971-2, 2-4-1971)
9-3-42: NARCOTIC DRUGS:
   (A)   Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, possess, have
under his control, sell, prescribe, administer, dispense or compound any
narcotic drug, as defined in the uniform narcotic drug act of the state of
Illinois, being 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 635, except as authorized in
said act. No person may unlawfully use such narcotic drugs.
   (B)   Penalty: A person convicted of violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or
imprisoned in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed six
(6) months, or both. (Ord. 1971-3, 2-4-1971)
9-3-43: ENCOURAGING/CONTRIBUTING TO THE DELINQUENCY OF MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage, aid
or cause an individual under the age of eighteen (18) years to come within the
purview of the authorities; and it shall likewise be unlawful for any person,
after notice that a driver's license of any individual under the age of
eighteen (18) years has been suspended or revoked, to permit such an individual
to operate a motor vehicle during the period that such driver's license is
suspended. Any person who shall knowingly violate the provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2020-10, 5-
7-2020)
9-3-44: TRESPASSING:
   (A)   Trespass Upon Real Property. Whoever enters upon the land or building
or any part thereof of another after receiving, immediately prior to such
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such entrance is forbidden, or
remains upon the land or building, or any part thereof of another after
receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart, commits and offense
under this chapter and shall be guilty of trespass, and shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty provisions of Title XI of this code. All
persons shall be deemed to have received notice from the owner or occupant
within the meaning of this subsection, if any one of the following has
occurred:
      1.   If they have been notified personally either orally or in writing;
or
      2.   If a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been
conspicuously posted or exhibited at any entrance of such land or building, or
forbidden part thereof.
   (B)   Trespass to Vehicle. Whoever knowingly and without authority enters
any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another without the
other’s consent, commits an offense under this chapter, and shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty provisions of Title XI of this code. (Ord.
2021-21, 6-3-2021)
CHAPTER 4
MISDEMEANORS AGAINST THE PUBLIC
SECTION:
9-4-1: Assault; Challenge; Affray
9-4-2: Disorderly Conduct
9-4-3: Unlawful Assemblages
9-4-4: Unlawful Assemblages On Private Premises
9-4-5: Disturbing Lawful Assemblages
9-4-6: Disturbing Funeral Processions
9-4-7: Disturbing Places Of Amusement
9-4-8: Resisting Officer; Assisting To Escape
9-4-9: Carrying Concealed Weapons
9-4-10: Burglar's Tools
9-4-11: Intoxication
9-4-12: Congregating On Streets Prohibited
9-4-13: Persons Congregating Upon Streets
9-4-14: Begging Prohibited
9-4-15: Graffiti; Prohibition And Penalties
9-4-15.1:Graffiti; Removal
9-4-16: Sale And Possession Of Spray Paint Cans And Broad Tipped Indelible
Markers
9-4-1: ASSAULT; CHALLENGE; AFFRAY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, strike or fight another, or to
be guilty of any affray or any conduct calculated to provoke a breach of the
peace. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-2: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quiet of the
village or of any citizen, or to be guilty of any violent, tumultuous,
offensive or disorderly conduct, or to make any loud, unusual noise or
disturbance, or to use any obscene, profane, vulgar, offensive or unseemly
language. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-3: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES:
Any two (2) or more persons who shall assemble within the village for any
unlawful purpose, or who, being assembled, shall act in concert to do an
unlawful act, with force or violence against the property of the village or the
person or property of another, or against the peace, or to the terror of other
persons or who shall make any movement or preparation therefor shall be
severally deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-4: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES ON PRIVATE PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer or permit any
assemblage for the purpose of committing an unlawful act or breach of the
peace, or any riotous, offensive, disorderly conduct in or upon premises within
said village owned by him or under his control. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-5: DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or disturb any
congregation or assembly met for the purpose of religious worship, or for any
other lawful purpose by making any loud or unusual noise, or by any rude or
indecent behavior, or by profane, obscene or improper discourse or conduct.
(Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-6: DISTURBING FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral procession or assembly. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-7: DISTURBING PLACES OF AMUSEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself in a riotous or
disorderly manner, or to disturb the peace at any show or exhibition, theater
or other public place of amusement, or at any election poll in said village.
(Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-8: RESISTING OFFICER; ASSISTING TO ESCAPE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any member of the
police force in the discharge of his duty, or to in any way hinder, or prevent
him from the discharge of his duty, or to endeavor to do so, and whoever shall
in any manner assist any person in the custody of any member of the police
force to escape or attempt to escape from such custody shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-9: CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within said village to wear or carry
concealed weapons about his person, any pistol, revolver, slingshot, metallic
knuckles, bowie knife, dirk or razor, or to flourish any such weapon in a
boisterous or threatening manner; provided that the provisions of this section
shall not be held to apply to any policeman, constable or other peace officer
while in the discharge of his duty, nor to any person summoned by any officer
to aid him in making an arrest or preserving the peace. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord.
1939)
9-4-10: BURGLAR'S TOOLS:
Any person who shall have in his possession any instrument or tool used for
counterfeiting, or for the commission of burglary, or for picking locks or
pockets, or any implement or device used by cheats and swindlers, unless it be
shown that such possession is innocent or for a lawful purpose shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-11: INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be found in a state of intoxication or
drunkenness in any public place or place open to the public view within the
village or in any private house or place to the annoyance of any person. (Ch.
64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-12: CONGREGATING ON STREETS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more persons to congregate on any
street, alley or sidewalk and engage in singing, praying, exhorting or loud
talking to the disturbance of any person or to the obstructing or blockading of
any street, alley or sidewalk. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-13: PERSONS CONGREGATING UPON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more persons to be found loitering,
standing, or congregating upon any street, alley or sidewalk. (Ch. 64A, Rev.
Ord. 1939)
9-4-14: BEGGING PROHIBITED:
No person shall solicit alms, charity, beg or induce or attempt to induce any
person to part with any merchandise, food, clothing, money or other valuable
thing. (Ch. 64A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-4-15: GRAFFITI; PROHIBITION AND PENALTIES:
It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise place upon the
surface of any structure or wall that is privately or publicly owned any word,
phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch, or letters where the contents thereof are
visible to any member of the general public and contain references to sexual
activity, to any portion of the human anatomy, to gang or criminal activities,
to personal relationships or to defamatory material about public or private
persons. It shall be a defense to the alleged violation of the foregoing
provision if such activity was undertaken with the prior written consent of the
owner of the property demonstrating that the owner was aware of the content and
the method by which the inscription was to be placed upon the structure or
wall. Upon a conviction for the violation of the foregoing prohibited conduct,
there shall be imposed a fine of no less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Additionally, a mandatory requirement
shall be imposed by any court finding a person guilty of violating the
provisions of this section as a condition to any probation or supervision that
full and complete restitution be made to the owner of the property for expenses
incurred in the removal of the material and repair of the structure or wall.
(Ord. 1987-14, 8-27-1987)
9-4-15.1: GRAFFITI; REMOVAL:
It shall be the duty of the owner of the structure or wall upon which any
inscription or representation prohibited in section
9-4-15 of this chapter is made to remove such inscription or representation and
to otherwise repair or restore the structure or wall to its prior condition
within three (3) days from the occurrence of the offense. The owner of the
property shall be entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct costs
incurred in the repair and restoration of his/her property from any person
convicted of the prohibited activity upon the submission of receipts evidencing
payments of such costs and provided the court entering the finding or
conviction for the offense shall so order. (Ord. 1987-14, 8-27-1987)
9-4-16: SALE AND POSSESSION OF SPRAY PAINT CANS AND BROAD TIPPED INDELIBLE
MARKERS:
   (A)   Possession Of Spray Paint Cans And Markers Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to possess within the village any paint in an aerosol spray paint
container or any marker containing a fluid which is not water soluble and has a
point, brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-eighths inch (3/8")
or greater. This prohibition shall not apply to:
(a) A child using paint or a marker while under the immediate supervision of
his or her legal guardian;
(b) A student using paint or a marker while under the immediate supervision of
his or her teacher;
(c) An employee using paint or a marker at the direction and under the
supervision of his or her employer.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any paint in an
aerosol spray paint container or any marker containing a fluid which is not
water soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing surface of
three-eighths inch (3/8") or greater while on the property of another or while
in any public building or upon any public facility within the village. It shall
be a defense to an action for violations of this subsection that the owner,
manager or other person having control of the property, building or facility
consented to the presence of the paint or marker.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any paint in an
aerosol spray paint container or liquid paint or any marker containing a fluid
which is not water soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing
surface of three-eighths inch (3/8") or greater on the public way with intent
to use the same to deface any building, structure, or property.
   (B)   Sale To Minors Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any retail licensee, owner, employee or
agent of a retail licensee to sell, give or otherwise deliver any paint in an
aerosol spray paint can or any marker containing a fluid which is not water
soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-
eighths inch (3/8") or greater to any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years.
      2.   Any retail licensee offering any paint in an aerosol spray paint can
or any marker containing a fluid which is not water soluble and has a point,
brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-eighths inch (3/8") or
greater for sale shall post in a conspicuous place at the register or other
point of sale a sign which states:
It is unlawful to sell spray paint or broad-tipped indelible markers to persons
under the age of 18 years.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person or licensee violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined in an amount not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord.
2008-19, 8-21-2008)
CHAPTER 5
CONCEALED WEAPONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Unlawful to Carry
9-5-2: Confiscation of Weapons
9-5-3: Arrest for Carrying
9-5-4: Procedure
9-5-5: To Whom Not Applicable
9-5-6: President to Grant Licenses
9-5-7: Fees for Licenses
9-5-8: Contents of Licenses
9-5-1: UNLAWFUL TO CARRY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, to carry or wear under his or her clothes,
or concealed about his person, any pistol, revolver, colt or sling shot, cross
knucklet or knuckles of lead, brass or other metal, or bowie knife, dagger,
dirk or any other dangerous or deadly weapon.
9-5-2: CONFISCATION OF WEAPONS:
Any such weapon or weapons duly adjudged by any police magistrate or justice of
the peace, to have been worn or carried by any person in violation of Section
9-5-1, shall be forfeited or confiscated to the said Village of River Grove,
and shall be so adjudged.
9-5-3: ARREST FOR CARRYING:
Any policeman, may without a warrant, arrest any person whom he may find in the
act of carrying or wearing concealed about his person, or under his clothes,
any weapon specified in Section 9-5-1, until a summons or warrant can be
procured on complaint made (under oath or affirmation) for the trial of such
person, and for the seizure and confiscation of such weapons.
9-5-4: PROCEDURE:
Upon complaint made under oath or affirmation, to any magistrate or justice of
the peace, that any person has been guilty of violating any of the provisions
of this Chapter, a summons or warrant shall issue for the summoning or arrest
of the offender or offenders, returnable forthwith; upon the return of such
summons or warrant, any magistrate or justice shall proceed to the hearing and
determination of the matter, and if it shall be adjudged that such person or
persons have or has incurred any of the penalties fixed by this Chapter, such
magistrate or justice of the peace shall so adjudge and order that the weapon
or weapons, concerning the wearing of which, or carrying of which, such penalty
shall have been incurred, shall be confiscated to the Village.
9-5-5: TO WHOM NOT APPLICABLE:
The prohibitions of this Chapter shall not apply to the officers or members of
the police force when on duty nor to any officer of any court whose duty it may
be to serve warrants or to make arrests; nor to persons whose business or
occupation may seem to require the carrying of concealed weapons for their
protection and who shall have obtained from the President a license so to do,
as hereinafter provided.
9-5-6: PRESIDENT TO GRANT LICENSES:
The President may grant to so many and such persons as he may think proper, a
license to carry concealed weapons, and may revoke any and all such licenses at
his pleasure.
9-5-7: FEES FOR LICENSES:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk, and when granted,
the applicant therefor shall pay to the said Clerk, for the use of the Village,
the sum of two dollars ($2.00).
9-5-8: CONTENTS OF LICENSES:
Every such license shall state the name, age and occupation and residence of
the person to whom it is granted. (Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 6
LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY
SECTION:
9-6-1: Livestock and Poultry
9-6-1: LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY:
It is unlawful to keep, maintain, or to permit to be kept or maintained upon or
about any premises or upon any vacant property or public street, alley or other
public place within the Village, any cattle, horses, swine, sheep, rabbits,
goats, other livestock, ducks, geese, chickens or other poultry. (Ord. 1964-35,
12-3-64)
CHAPTER 6A
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Definition
9-6A-2: Licensing, Regulations
9-6A-3: Exemption
9-6A-4: Penalties
9-6A-1: DEFINITION:
Dangerous or Vicious Animal means:
   (A)   Any animal that when unprovoked:
      1.   Inflicts bites on or attacks a human being or domestic animal either
on public or private property; or
      2.   In a vicious or terrorizing manner approaches any person in an
apparent attitude of attack on any public way or in any public place;
   (B)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
without provocation, to cause injury or otherwise to endanger the safety of
human beings or domestic animals;
   (C)   Any animal that attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation; or
   (D)   Any animal owned, harbored, trained or used for fighting against
another animal.
9-6A-2: LICENSING, REGULATIONS:
No person shall possess, harbor, keep or maintain a dangerous or vicious animal
except in accordance with the requirements of this Section.
   (A)   Every dangerous or vicious animal shall have a license. In order to
obtain a license for such animal, the owner of the animal shall present to the
Village Clerk proof that the owner has procured liability insurance in the
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), issued by an insurer
authorized to underwrite risks in this State, covering any damage or injury
which may be caused by the dangerous or vicious animal during the license
period. The insurance policy shall contain a provision that the Clerk will be
notified thirty (30) days prior to any cancellation of the policy. Each license
shall bear a different number.
   (B)   The owner of such animal shall have the license number of the animal
tattooed on the upper inner lip of the animal by a licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   The owner of the dangerous or vicious animal shall post a sign no
smaller than sixteen inches (16") high by twenty four inches (24") wide,
bearing the legend "WARNING - DANGEROUS ANIMAL" in print no smaller than three
inches (3") high, and the license number of the animal in print no smaller than
one inch (1") high at the entry to the building in which the animal is kept, in
such a way as to be visible from the nearest public sidewalk.
   (D)   The owner of a dangerous or vicious animal shall not allow the animal
outside the owner's dwelling unless:
      1.   The animal is in a locked enclosure secure on all sides and on top
against intrusion by domestic animals and humans other than the owner; or
      2.   The animal is muzzled and under restraint and under the direct
control of the owner.
9-6A-3: EXEMPTION:
The requirements of this Section shall not apply to dogs owned by law
enforcement agencies and used in law enforcement work.
9-6A-4: PENALTIES:
The following penalties shall apply to violations of this Chapter:
   (A)   Any dangerous animal kept, harbored or maintained in violation of this
Chapter shall be subject to impoundment and destruction by order of the
corporate authorities.
   (B)   If a dangerous or vicious animal possessed, harbored, kept or
maintained in violation of this Chapter bites or inflicts any injury on any
person other than its owner, the owner of the animal shall be subject to a fine
of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (C)   Any person who otherwise possesses, harbors, keeps or maintains a
dangerous or vicious animal in violation of this Chapter shall be subject to a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
A separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 1987-15, 8-27-87)
CHAPTER 7
GAMING
SECTION:
9-7-1: Maintaining Gambling House
9-7-2: Dealing Or Playing; Penalty
9-7-3: Police To Inform President And Illinois Gaming Board; Search
9-7-4: Gaming Devices
9-7-5: Lottery Unlawful
9-7-6: Exposing Gaming Device In Public Place
9-7-7: Playing Game For Money Unlawful; Penalty
9-7-8: Visitors And Inmates
9-7-9: Police To Seize Gaming Devices; Penalty
9-7-10: Exemptions
9-7-1: MAINTAINING GAMBLING HOUSE:
Unless permitted under section
9-7-10 of this chapter, no person shall set up, keep or maintain, or permit to
be set up, kept or maintained, in any premises or place occupied or controlled
by him, her or it, any instrument or device or thing for the purpose of gaming,
or with which money or property or anything representing money or property or
anything of value, shall in any manner be played for. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-2012)
9-7-2: DEALING OR PLAYING; PENALTY:
Unless permitted under section
9-7-10 of this chapter, no person or entity shall deal, play or engage in
device or game of chance or hazard, either as banker, dealer, player or
otherwise, nor shall bet on any game others may be playing for the purpose of
gaming. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-2012)
9-7-3: POLICE TO INFORM PRESIDENT AND ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD; SEARCH:
It shall be the duty of all members of the police department to give
information to the president of the village, of each premises or other place
within the village where such games or devices or tables or other instruments
or things for the purpose of gaming are or may be set up, kept or maintained,
and said police officer shall take all lawful means to prevent and suppress the
playing at the tables, games or devices aforesaid, and for this purpose when
and as often as any of them shall have reasonable cause to suspect that any
such table, game or device is set up, kept or maintained as aforesaid, the
officer shall forthwith make complaint thereof before the circuit court and
obtain a warrant authorizing the officer to enter the premises, or any room
within the premises and said police officer shall thereupon have authority to
demand entry therein, and any person who shall refuse or neglect to open the
door or entrance to such premises, or any room within the premises, upon
application of any police officer having such warrant, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor.
With respect to video gaming, if the police department takes action relating to
the operation or use of a video gaming terminal, whether licensed or
unlicensed, the police department shall notify the Illinois gaming board and
specify the extent of the action taken and the reasons for the action. If the
police department confiscates video gaming terminals or terminal income, it
shall then, as soon as practicable under the circumstances, turn over the video
gaming terminals and terminal income to the Illinois gaming board unless
otherwise ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-
2012)
9-7-4: GAMING DEVICES:
Unless permitted under section
9-7-10 of this chapter, no person or entity shall bring into the village or
have in his, her or its possession for the purpose of gaming, any table, thing
or device of any kind or nature, whereon or with which money or any other thing
of value may in any manner be played for. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-2012)
9-7-5: LOTTERY UNLAWFUL:
Unless permitted under section
9-7-10 of this chapter, no person shall keep, maintain or manage, direct or aid
in the keeping, maintaining, directing or managing of any lottery or thing
whatever, for the drawing or disposing of money or any other property. (Ord.
2012-10, 6-21-2012)
9-7-6: EXPOSING GAMING DEVICE IN PUBLIC PLACE:
Unless permitted under section
9-7-10 of this chapter no person shall expose in any of the streets, avenues or
other public places, any table or device of any kind whatsoever, upon or by
which any game of chance or hazard can be played, or shall play at or upon any
such table or device. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-2012)
9-7-7: PLAYING GAME FOR MONEY UNLAWFUL; PENALTY:
Unless permitted under section
9-7-10 of this chapter, no person shall play for money or other valuable thing,
or at any game with cards, dice, checks, or at billiards, or with any other
article, instrument or thing whatever, which may be used for the purpose of
playing or betting upon, or winning or losing money, or anything of value, nor
shall bet on any game they or others may be playing, nor shall trot or race any
horse or horses, on a stake or bet, or wager money or any other valuable thing
upon a trotting match or horse race. Every such person shall, on conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-2012)
9-7-8: VISITORS AND INMATES:
Any person who is a frequenter, visitor, inmate, doorkeeper, solicitor, agent,
abettor or pimp of, or for any house, store, grocery, hall, room or any other
place where are kept E.O. tables, keno tables, faro bank, shuffle board,
bagatelle, playing cards, pigeon holes or any instrument, device or thing used
for gambling, which are not otherwise exempt from the provisions of this
chapter under section
9-7-10 of this chapter, whereon or with which money or property or anything
representing money or property shall be played for, shall upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-2012)
9-7-9: POLICE TO SEIZE GAMING DEVICES; PENALTY:
Unless permitted under section
9-7-10 of this chapter, it is hereby made the duty of every member of the
police department to seize any table, instrument, device or thing used for the
purpose of gaming; and all such tables, instruments, devices or things shall be
destroyed. It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or resist any member
of the police force in the performance of any act authorized by this section.
With respect to video game, if the police department takes action relating to
the operation or use of a video gaming terminal, whether licensed or
unlicensed, the department shall notify the Illinois gaming board and specify
the extent of the action taken and the reasons for the action; and in the event
that the department confiscates video gaming terminals or terminal income, it
shall, as soon as practicable under the circumstances, turn over the video
gaming terminals and terminal income to the Illinois gaming board unless
otherwise ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-
2012)
9-7-10: EXEMPTIONS:
Sections
9-7-1 through
9-7-9 of this chapter shall not apply in the following circumstances:
   (A)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, or licensed
veterans' establishment when conducted in accordance with the video gaming act,
230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.;
   (B)   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants in
any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
   (C)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of Illinois;
   (D)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution, or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the video gaming act, by manufacturers, distributors, and terminal operators
licensed to do so under the video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes
40/1 et seq.;
   (E)   Lotteries when conducted by the state of Illinois in accordance with
the Illinois lottery law, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1605/1 et seq.;
   (F)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. An antique slot machine is one manufactured twenty five
(25) years ago or earlier;
   (G)   Raffles when conducted in accordance with local ordinance and the
raffles act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/0.01 et seq.;
   (H)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the charitable
games act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 et seq.;
   (I)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois pull tabs
and jar games act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 20/1 et seq.;
   (J)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can be
won but no payment or purchase is required to participate;
   (K)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance. (Ord. 2012-10, 6-21-2012)
CHAPTER 8
TRAILER RENTAL
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definition
9-8-2: License Required
9-8-3: Application for License
9-8-4: Investigation
9-8-5: License Fee
9-8-6: License Period
9-8-7: Inspection
9-8-8: Records to be Kept
9-8-9: Revocation
9-8-10: Penalty
9-8-1: DEFINITION:
The term "Trailer" as used in this Chapter is hereby defined to mean every
vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or property and for
being drawn by a motor vehicle.
9-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in, operate or conduct the business
of leasing or renting trailers for hire within this Village without having
first obtained a license so to do.
9-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every application for a license, as required by this Chapter, shall be made in
writing to the Village Clerk, setting forth the name and address of the
applicant, the number of persons to be employed in the operation of such
business, the names and addresses of all employees, the number and type of
trailers to be used in the business, the hours during which said business will
be operated, and the rates to be charged.
9-8-4: INVESTIGATION:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license under this Chapter, and prior
to the issuance thereof, the Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of
the applicant and all employees. As a part of said investigation, the finger
prints of any applicant and all employees shall be taken and shall be
determined therefrom whether such applicant or any employee has a criminal
record of any kind. Upon the completion of the investigation, the Clerk shall
cause a written report to be submitted to the Board of Trustees of this
Village, who shall consider the same and who may grant or refuse such license.
The Clerk may, in the event that a person reapplies for a license under this
Chapter in consecutive periods, without any license period intervening in which
a license is not issued, accept the results of the investigation made at the
time of the original application in lieu of a new investigation.
9-8-5: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a license issued under this Chapter shall be two dollars
($2.00) per trailer used by the applicant in the course of his business.
However, the minimum annual fee to be paid by an applicant shall be ten dollars
($10.00).
9-8-6: LICENSE PERIOD:
All licenses issued under this Chapter shall expire on the 30th day of April
next following the date of issue.
9-8-7: INSPECTION:
The Clerk shall cause periodic inspections, but not less than once a year, to
be made of the premises on which businesses licensed under this Chapter are
being carried on and the trailers used by applicant in the course of such
business to assure compliance with all the applicable Sections of this Code and
the safe condition of said trailers.
9-8-8: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
Each licensee shall cause a record of all trailers offered for hire in the
course of his business, including the name of the owners, the serial numbers,
name of the manufacturers and types thereof. Records shall also be kept of each
rental transaction, showing the name and address of each person hiring a
trailer and the amount paid therefor. All records of licensee shall be open for
inspection during business hours of licensee, and at all other reasonable
times, by the Officers of the Village.
9-8-9: REVOCATION:
Any license issued under this Chapter shall be subject to revocation for cause
by the Board of Trustees of this Village, at any time. In case of revocation,
no part of the license fee shall be refunded.
9-8-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation shall occur or
continue. (Chapter L-A; Rev. Ord. 1939; Amd. 12-17-59)
CHAPTER 9
TRAILERS AND CAMPS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Definitions
9-9-2: Trailer Locations
9-9-3: License Required
9-9-4: Application for License
9-9-5: License Fees
9-9-6: Inspections
9-9-7: License to be Posted; Transfers
9-9-8: Revocation of License
9-9-9: Location of Camp; Frontage Consents
9-9-10: Size and Plan of Units
9-9-11: Water Supply
9-9-12: Sanitary Facilities
9-9-13: Fixtures Connected with Sewer
9-9-14: Removal of Garbage
9-9-15: Fire Equipment
9-9-16: Register to be Kept
9-9-17: Trailer Parking
9-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words and phrases are defined as
follows:
HOUSE-CAR TRAILER: is any structure for, or used for living or sleeping
purposes, mounted upon wheels and capable of being transported from place to
place either by its own power or by some vehicle attached to it; provided that
this definition shall not apply to any vehicle operated over fixed rails.
TRAILER CAMP: Is a plot of ground where two (2) or more house-car trailers used
as living or sleeping quarters may be located, regardless of whether or not a
charge is made for such accommodation.
UNIT: Is a section of ground for the accommodation of one house-car trailer and
towing unit only.
PERSON: refers to any person, persons, firm or corporation.
9-9-2: TRAILER LOCATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any house-car trailer for human
habitation upon a plot of ground within the Village except in duly licensed
trailer camps.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except the caretaker and his bonafide
employees, to remain or live in a trailer camp for more than thirty (30) days
in any twelve (12) month period.
Each house-car trailer shall be equipped with a fire extinguisher in good
working order. All heating and cooking apparatus shall be connected to the open
air by means of flues, except where the heating or cooking element is
electricity.
It shall be unlawful for a person to remove the wheels or other transporting
device from any house-car trailer or to otherwise fix said car trailer
permanently to the ground so as to prevent ready removal of said car trailer
unless a permit so to do is obtained from the Department of Buildings. Any such
alteration shall be construed as converting the house-car trailer into a Class
Building and subject to the requirements of the building, sanitary and zoning
provisions of this Code.
9-9-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or operate any trailer camp
unless such person shall first obtain a license therefor.
9-9-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for a license to maintain a trailer camp shall file a written
application with the Village Collector stating the name and address of the
applicant, name and address of owner or manager of said camp, location of the
camp ground, and the maximum number of house car trailers the camp will
accommodate. This application shall be accompanied by plans of the camp showing
the proposed or existing location of all buildings, toilet, bath and wash basin
facilities, slop sinks, water faucets, sewer connections, driveways and other
improvements.
9-9-5: LICENSE FEES:
Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a license fee of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for camps capable of accommodating twenty (20) house-
car trailers or less and an additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each
unit capacity in excess of twenty (20). Such license shall expire at the end of
the calendar year. The fees for the annual license thereafter shall be based on
the same rate as the initial license fee. The fee for the transfer of a license
as provided in section
9-9-7, shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
9-9-6: INSPECTION:
Before such license shall be issued or renewed the camp premises shall be
inspected by the Health Department and Department of Public Works to determine
whether all provisions of this Chapter are complied with. If the trailer camp
is found to comply with all the requirements, the departments affected shall
approve the application for a license and a trailer camp license shall be
issued therefor.
9-9-7: LICENSE TO BE POSTED; TRANSFERS:
Such license shall be conspicuously posted on the premises of the trailer camp
at all times. Such license may be transferable, if the Board of Health approves
the transfer upon the written application of the holder of the license, to the
Village Collector.
9-9-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any department of the Village required to investigate or inspect trailer camps
shall make such additional inspections as it deems necessary. If at any time, a
trailer camp is found to be in violation of the provisions of this or other
pertinent Chapters of this Code, the department charged with such inspection
shall notify the licensee of such trailer camp of this condition. If the
violation is not corrected within a reasonable time after notification, to the
satisfaction of the department complaining, the license for such trailer camp
may be revoked by the President on the recommendation of such department.
9-9-9: LOCATION OF CAMP; FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
No trailer camp shall be located in a residential or apartment district; nor
shall any person establish any trailer camp on any block in which more than
one-half (1/2) of the buildings are dwelling houses and apartments unless a
majority of the property owners on both sides of the block and within two
hundred feet (200') of any part of such lot consent thereto in writing.
9-9-10: SIZE AND PLAN OF UNITS:
Each unit as defined in this Chapter shall consist of unoccupied space of at
least eight hundred square feet (800 sq. ft.). Such units shall be arranged in
rows facing a driveway of not less than twenty feet (20') in width which shall
have unobstructed access to a public street or alley. No house-car trailer
shall be located within five feet (5') of a line or within fifteen feet (15')
of any street, alley or property line. No building or any other construction
shall be erected in this fifteen foot (15') zone.
9-9-11: WATER SUPPLY:
An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and domestic purposes shall be
supplied to meet the requirements of said trailer camp. Said water supply shall
be obtained from faucets only, conveniently located in said trailer camp. No
common drinking cups shall be permitted. A water meter shall be installed in
each camp.
9-9-12: SANITARY FACILITIES:
Each trailer camp shall provide toilets, baths or showers, slop sinks and
garbage containers in the following ratios and conditions.
   (A)   One toilet of the water flush type for each sex for every ten (10)
units or fraction thereof. In the men's department there shall be in addition
one urinal for every twenty (20) units or fraction thereof.
   (B)   One shower or bathtub shall be provided for each sex for every ten
(10) units or fraction thereof.
   (C)   One wash-basin shall be provided for each sex for every ten (10) units
or fraction thereof.
   (D)   Such toilets, bathtubs or showers and wash-basins shall be placed in
properly constructed buildings located not more than two hundred feet (200')
from each unit.
   (E)   These buildings shall be well-lighted at all times of the day or night
and constructed of such moisture proof material as shall permit satisfactory
cleaning and washing.
   (F)   The floors of these buildings shall be of concrete or other non-porous
material and each room shall be provided with floor drains.
   (G)   A slop sink with running water conveniently located shall be provided
for every ten (10) units or fraction thereof.
   (H)   A tightly covered metal garbage can shall be provided for each unit.
9-9-13: FIXTURES CONNECTED WITH SEWER:
It shall be unlawful to permit any waste water of material from toilets,
showers, bathtubs, wash-basins or other plumbing fixtures in the camp or house
car trailers to be deposited upon the surface of the ground and all such
fixtures, when in use, must be connected to the sewer system.
9-9-14: REMOVAL OF GARBAGE:
It shall be the duty of the owner, his agent or caretaker to provide for the
collection and removal of garbage or other waste material and to otherwise
maintain the camp in a thoroughly clean, sanitary condition. The camp shall be
kept properly and adequately lighted at all times so that the grounds thereof
will be safe for occupants and visitors.
9-9-15: FIRE EQUIPMENT:
Every trailer camp shall be equipped at all times with at least one fire
extinguisher for every ten (10) units of a type approved by the Chief fire
prevention engineer. No fires shall at any time be so located as to endanger
automobiles or other property.
9-9-16: REGISTER TO BE KEPT:
It shall be the duty of the owner, his agent or caretaker to keep a register in
which is kept a record of all house-car trailer occupants. Said register shall
specify the date of arrival, the name of the owner of the house-car trailer and
towing automobile, the State in which the house-car trailer and towing
automobile were registered and the numbers of the vehicle licenses. (Ch. 50;
Rev. Ord. 1939 )
9-9-17: TRAILER PARKING:
The parking of any house car trailer on any plot of ground, licensed trailer
camps excepted, for any period in excess of ten (10) days is hereby prohibited.
Any person parking or permitting parking in violation of the terms of this
Chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided for in this Code. (12-20-
56).
CHAPTER 10
TRAILER SALES
SECTION:
9-10-1: License Required
9-10-2: Application for License
9-10-3: Investigation
9-10-4: Revocation
9-10-5: License Period
9-10-6: License Fee
9-10-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, operate or conduct the business of selling new or
used trailers or accessories, or parts thereof, without first having obtained a
license.
9-10-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Anyone who desires a license as required by this Chapter shall make
application, in writing, to the Clerk, setting forth in said application the
name and address of the applicant and all his or its employees and the name and
address of the firm or corporation he represents, or whose product he intends
to sell. Applicant shall also state whether he intends to sell new or used
trailers and the hours he intends to be open for business.
9-10-3: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a license and prior to the issuance of a
license, the Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of the applicant,
his employees and the firm or corporation he represents, or whose product he
intends to sell, to determine the character, reputation and practices of such
applicant and to determine whether the intended business shall be detrimental
to the health, morals or general welfare of the Village. As a part of the
investigation, the fingerprints of any applicant and all employees shall be
taken, and it shall be determined therefrom whether such applicant or any
employee has a criminal record of any kind. Upon the completion of the
investigation, the Clerk shall cause a written report to be submitted to the
Board of Trustees, who shall consider the same and who may grant or refuse such
license. The Clerk may, in the event that a person reapplies for such a license
in consecutive periods, without any license period intervening in which a
license is not issued, accept the results of the investigation made at the time
of the original application in lieu of a new investigation.
9-10-4: REVOCATION:
Any license issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to
revocation for cause by the Board of Trustees at any time. In case of
revocation, no part of the license fee shall be returned.
9-10-5: LICENSE PERIOD:
Licenses issued shall be for a period of one year from the date of issue.
9-10-6: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for said license issued shall be five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for
one year. (8-2-56)
CHAPTER 11
MOTELS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Definition
9-11-2: License Required
9-11-3: Application; Plans
9-11-4: Investigation
9-11-5: License Period
9-11-6: License Fee
9-11-7: License To Be Displayed
9-11-8: Construction
9-11-9: Supervision And Maintenance
9-11-10: Notices
9-11-11: Heat
9-11-12: General
9-11-13: Transfer Of License
9-11-14: Revocation Of License
9-11-15: Inspection
9-11-1: DEFINITION:
The term "motel" as used in this chapter shall be construed to mean any
establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached rooms, located on a
single zoning lot or contiguous or adjoining zoning lots comprising one single
plot of land, which is kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the
public to be a place where lodging or lodging and food or apartments or suites
or other sleeping or housekeeping units, with or without self-contained kitchen
facilities, are offered for adequate pay to travelers or guests, whether
transient, permanent or residential. These facilities may be described as motor
hotels, highway hotels, motor courts, lodges, inns or other similar names
denoting that accommodations are available primarily for transient guests. (Ch.
50A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a motel without
having first obtained a license so to do and without complying with all of the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable provisions of this code.
(Ch. 50A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-11-3: APPLICATION; PLANS:
Each person desiring a license as required by this chapter shall make
application therefor in writing to the clerk, stating therein the name and
address of the owner, name and address of the manager, assistant manager, if
any, or desk clerk or clerks or any other person or persons having charge of
the operation of the premises; location of the auto court; the number of rooms
available; the maximum number of persons and vehicles to be accommodated; and
whether or not kitchen facilities are afforded and if so, the number and
location of each such unit. Unless the same shall have been previously
presented and approved, this application shall be accompanied by plans of the
motel, showing the proposed or existing locations of all buildings, rooms,
toilets, type of heating, sewer connections, exits, driveways and other
improvements. (Ch. 50A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-11-4: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a license and prior to the issuance of a
license, the clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of the applicant.
Upon completion of said investigation a report shall be submitted to the
president and board of trustees, who may thereupon grant or refuse such
license. The issuance of a license may be denied to any person who is not of
good character, and any person who shall have been found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of any offense denoting moral turpitude may be prima
facie assumed to be of bad moral character. The clerk may, in the event that a
reapplication is made for a license in consecutive license periods without any
license period intervening in which a license is not issued, accept the results
of the investigation made at the time of the original application in lieu of a
new investigation. (Ch. 50A, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-11-5: LICENSE PERIOD:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be for the
period from May 1 to April 30 of the next succeeding year. (Ch. 50A, Rev. Ord.
1939; amd. 10-2-1958)
9-11-6: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fees for hotels and motels erected and established in this
village shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
For ten (10) units or less, the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
For each additional unit, the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per unit. (Ord. 2013-
04, 3-21-2013)
9-11-7: LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED:
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be conspicuously
displayed in the licensed premises. (Ch. 50A, Rev. Ord. 1939; amd. 10-2-1958)
9-11-8: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   All buildings constructed or so remodeled as to create new or
additional accommodations shall comply with all building code requirements.
   (B)   All accommodation units constructed shall have at least seventy two
square feet (72 sq. ft.) of floor area for each adult person occupying said
room and in no event shall any room have less than one hundred and forty four
square feet (144 sq. ft.), exclusive of area required for toilet and exclusive
of space provided for clothing racks or closet space.
      1.   Minimum area of rooms: seventy two square feet (72 sq. ft.) for each
occupant. Add forty square feet (40 sq. ft.) if cooking facilities are
provided. Closet and other accessory space is in addition.
      2.   Rooms with kitchen facilities: Equip with hand operated fire
extinguishers of type suitable for use on fat, oil or gasoline fires and
approved by State Fire Marshall. Locate away from stoves, preferably near a
door.
   (C)   In no event shall more than four (4) adult persons be accommodated in
any one individual room.
   (D)   Each rent unit shall be equipped with a private bathroom consisting of
toilet, lavatory, shower-stall or bath, all within a single enclosed area.
   (E)   The window area of accommodation unit shall be sufficient to furnish
adequate natural light. Twenty-five percent (25%) of the required window area
shall be capable of being opened unless some other adequate means of
ventilation is provided.
   (F)   The toilet room shall contain at least one window opening to the
outside unless some other adequate means of ventilation is provided.
   (G)   All combustion type room heaters shall be vented.
   (H)   If gas heaters are used, the same shall be approved by the American
Gas Association or some other recognized testing laboratory that provides a
follow up inspection service; all heaters must be equipped with an automatic
shut-off which will operate at flame failure.
   (J)   An adequate supply of safe water shall be provided from a source which
complies with the municipal regulations governing the supply of water.
   (K)   All sewerage and all other or water carried wastes shall be discharged
into a municipal sewer whenever available. Whenever not available, liquid
wastes shall be discharged into a private sewage disposal system the operation
of which shall not create a nuisance or pollute a stream, lake or other body of
water, or adversely affect any drinking water. All sewage disposal systems
shall comply with all local and state statutes, regulations and codes.
   (L)   Artificial swimming pools used in connection with recreational area,
shall be constructed and maintained in a manner which will not create any
health or safety hazards.
      1.   Artificial swimming pools used in connection with recreational
areas; Plans and specifications must be submitted to the Department of Public
Health, State of Illinois for approval. Written permits will be issued when
approved.
   (M)   All mechanical equipment installed or used in connection with the
motel, including but not limited to electrical, water and sewer supplies and
heating facilities shall be of such standard as to provide a reasonable degree
of health and safeguards for the occupants of said motel.
9-11-9: SUPERVISION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   Each establishment shall have at least one competent attendant or
caretaker available at all times. It shall be his duty to receive and deliver
telephone messages and mail and to maintain the premises, facilities and
equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition and free from rodents and
vermin.
   (B)   Each establishment shall keep a registration of all transient guests.
This register shall contain the name, legal residence, make of car, car
license, number and names of persons occupying the rooms, the number of numbers
of the room or rooms assigned to the guest or guests and the date of arrival
and departure. The register shall be available for inspection by law
enforcement officers for a period of not less than three (3) years.
   (C)   All floors in the bathroom shall be thoroughly washed and disinfected
for each incoming guest.
   (D)   All areas shall be kept free from rubbish, litter and inflammable
materials at all times, and no inflammable liquids or chemicals shall be kept
on the premises unless the same are in an approved type of container.
   (E)   All sheets, towels and other linens, furnished for each accommodation
unit shall be clean and freshly laundered for each incoming guest.
   (F)   All drinking glasses shall be washed and sterilized for each incoming
guest. If paper cups are furnished in lieu thereof, such paper cups shall be in
proper dispensers which do not provide the handling of same except by a guest.
   (G)   The entire establishment shall be operated in such a manner as to
provide clean wholesome accommodations to the guests at all times. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing it shall be the duty of the operator
of the establishment to keep the entire premises in a good state of repair and
maintenance.
   (H)   In any accommodations where cooking facilities are provided, fly proof
and metal containers shall be supplied for garbage and refuse, and it shall be
the duty of the motel operator to promptly remove and dispose of such garbage
and refuse.
   (J)   Any area or premises of the motel open to use by the public or by all
persons staying in or being accommodated in the said motel shall be kept
adequately lighted at nighttime.
9-11-10: NOTICES:
Printed notices shall be posted in each room giving the established rate for
said room for one or more persons, and it shall be unlawful to charge a rate in
excess of such rate, provided however, that nothing herein contained shall
prohibit the motel from establishing other or different rates during seasonal
periods, and nothing herein contained shall prevent the proprietor from
changing such published rates from time to time. Such notices shall also
prescribe any reasonable rules and regulations of the establishment, not in
conflict with any statute or regulation of the State of Illinois in such case
made and provided.
9-11-11: HEAT:
Each room, including the bathroom, shall have facilities to keep such room at a
minimum comfortable temperature.
9-11-12: GENERAL:
   (A)   Each establishment shall maintain an office, lobby or other room or
lighted drive-in area, which shall be available for the registration of guests.
   (B)   For each two thousand five hundred square feet (2,500 sq. ft.) of
floor area on each floor, one, two and one-half (21/2) gallon soda and acid
approved type fire extinguisher or an approved wet water type extinguisher on
each floor.
9-11-13: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Licenses issued under this Chapter shall not be transferable.
9-11-14: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In addition to the penalty herein imposed for violation of any provision herein
contained, the President of the Board shall have the right to terminate, revoke
or suspend any license previously granted, provided however, that no
suspension, termination or revocation of a license shall take place unless and
until reasonable notice of such alleged violation has been given in the motel,
its operator or manager, and a public hearing afforded such alleged violator at
a time and place to be fixed by the Village President. Said notices shall be
deemed sufficiently given if mailed to the address of the motel.
9-11-15: INSPECTION:
Every motel operated or maintained shall be inspected under and by the
authority of the Building Commissioner at least once each year, such inspection
to be sufficiently complete as to convince the inspector that the buildings and
premises and all parts thereof comply in all respects with the provisions of
this Code and the applicable statutes of the State of Illinois. It shall be the
duty of every person, maintaining or operating a motel as hereinbefore defined
to admit the Building Commissioner or other duly authorized officer for the
purpose of making said inspection. The annual fee for said inspection shall be
as fixed by the President and Board of Trustees. (Ch. L.A. Rev. Ord. 1939)
CHAPTER 12
ROOMING HOUSES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Definition
9-12-2: License Required
9-12-3: Application; Plans
9-12-4: Investigation
9-12-5: License Period; Fee
9-12-6: License to be Displayed
9-12-7: Construction
9-12-8: Supervision and Maintenance
9-12-9: Notices
9-12-10: Heat
9-12-11: General
9-12-12: Transfer of Licenses
9-12-13: Revocation of License
9-12-14: Inspection
9-12-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this Chapter, a rooming house shall mean and include every
dwelling house, furnished room, house, lodginghouse, boardinghouse and any
other similarly occupied building, structure or portion thereof kept, held or
used, where sleeping or lodging is offered or furnished for pay for three or
more persons for a definite period, but not to transients by the day.
9-12-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a rooming house in
this Village without having first obtained a license so to do and without
complying with all of the provisions of this Chapter and all other applicable
provisions of this Code.
9-12-3: APPLICATION; PLANS:
Each person desiring a license, as required by this Chapter shall make
application therefor in writing to the Clerk, stating therein the name and
address of the owner of the premises, the name and address of the manager,
assistant manager, if any, or any other person or persons having charge of the
operation of the premises, the number of rooms available and the maximum number
of persons to be accommodated. Unless the same shall have been previously
presented and approved, the application shall be accompanied by a plan of each
floor of the building which shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one-
quarter inch (1/4") to a foot, showing all fire escapes, stairs, halls,
location and size of all windows, all the bedrooms and exits of each floor and
the intended use of every room in the building.
9-12-4: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a license under this Chapter and prior to
the issuance of a license, the Clerk shall cause an investigation to be made of
the applicant and of the premises to be licensed, including building, fire and
health inspections. Upon completion of said investigation, a report shall be
submitted to the President and Board of Trustees who may thereupon grant or
refuse such license. The issuance of a license may be denied to any person who
is not of good character, and any person who shall have been found guilty by a
court of competent jurisdiction of any offense denoting moral turpitude may be
prima facie assumed to be of bad moral character. The Clerk may, in the event
that a re-application is made for a license in consecutive license periods
without any license period intervening in which a license is not issued, accept
the results of the investigation made at the time of the original application
in lieu of a new investigation.
9-12-5: LICENSE PERIOD; FEE:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be for the
period from May 1st to April 30th of the next succeeding year, and the annual
fee therefor shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for ten (10) units or less, and
five dollars ($5.00) per unit for each additional unit.
9-12-6: LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED:
Licenses issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be conspicuously
displayed in the licensed premises.
9-12-7: CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   All buildings hereafter constructed or remodeled for use as rooming
houses and every part thereof shall conform to all the requirements of this
Chapter and all other applicable provisions of this Code.
   (B)   In no event shall more than four (4) adult persons be accommodated in
any one individual room.
   (C)   Water closets, lavatory and bathing facilities shall be provided on
each floor, and water closets shall be provided in the ratio of at least one to
eight (8) occupants, or fraction thereof.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to use a basement, or any part thereof, for
rooming house purposes.
   (E)   All combustion type room heaters shall be vented.
   (F)   If gas heaters are used, the same shall be approved by the American
Gas Association or some other recognized testing laboratory that provide the
follow-up inspection service. All heaters must be equipped with an automatic
shutoff which will operate at flame failure.
9-12-8: SUPERVISION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   Each establishment shall have at least one competent attendant or
caretaker available at all times. It shall be his duty to receive and deliver
telephone messages and mail and to maintain the premises, facilities and
equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition and free from rodents and
vermin.
   (B)   Every rooming house shall keep in the office or other public place
therein a register in which shall be entered the name and residence of every
person who becomes a lodger or guest therein. Such register shall also show the
number of the room or bed occupied by such person, the date of his arrival and
the period for which he engaged lodging. The register shall always be
accessible, without charge, to any officer of the Village.
   (C)   All areas shall be kept free from rubbish, litter and inflammable
materials at all times, and no inflammable liquids or chemicals shall be kept
on the premises unless the same are in an approved type of container.
   (D)   All drinking glasses shall be washed and sterilized for each incoming
guest. If paper cups are furnished in lieu thereof, such paper cups shall be in
proper dispensers which do not provide the handling of same except by a guest.
   (E)   All sheets, towels and other linens, furnished for each accommodation
unit, shall be clean and freshly laundered for each incoming guest.
   (F)   The entire establishment shall be so operated in such a manner as to
provide clean wholesome accommodations to the guests at all times. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall be the duty of the operator
of the establishment to keep the entire premises in a good state of repair and
maintenance.
   (G)   Any area or premises of the rooming house open to use by the public or
by all persons staying in or being accommodated in the said rooming house shall
be kept adequately lighted at night-time.
   (H)   No person who shall conduct, operate or maintain any rooming house
shall permit in any living or sleeping room the cooking or preparation of food
or meals or the storage of foodstuffs.
   (J)   No accessory building shall be used for rooming house purposes.
9-12-9: NOTICES:
Printed notices shall be posted in each room giving the established rate for
said room for one or more persons, and it shall be unlawful to charge a rate in
excess of such rate, provided, however, nothing herein contained shall prevent
the proprietor from changing such published rates from time to time. Such
notices shall also prescribe any reasonable rules and regulations of the
establishment, not in conflict with any statute or regulation of the State of
Illinois in such cases made and provided.
9-12-10: HEAT:
Each room, including the bathroom, shall have facilities to keep such room at a
minimum comfortable temperature.
9-12-11: GENERAL:
   (A)   Each establishment shall maintain an office, lobby or other room which
shall be available for the registration of guests.
   (B)   For each two thousand five hundred square feet (2,500 sq. ft.) of
floor area on each floor, one, two and one half (21/2) gallon soda and acid
approved type fire extinguisher or an approved wet water type extinguisher on
each floor.
9-12-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSES:
Licenses issued under this Chapter shall not be transferable.
9-12-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In addition to the penalty herein imposed for violation of any provision herein
contained, the President of the Board shall have the right to terminate, revoke
or suspend any license previously granted, provided, however, that no
suspension, termination or revocation of a license shall take place unless and
until reasonable notice of such alleged violation has been given to the rooming
house, its operator or manager, and a public hearing afforded such alleged
violator at a time and place to be fixed by the Village President. Said notices
shall be deemed sufficiently given if mailed to the address of the rooming
house.
9-12-14: INSPECTION:
Every rooming house operated or maintained shall be inspected under and by the
authority of the Building Commissioner at least once each year, such inspection
to be sufficiently complete as to convince the inspector that the buildings,
and premises and all parts thereof comply in all respects with the provisions
of this Code and the applicable Statutes of the State of Illinois. It shall be
the duty of every person maintaining or operating a rooming house as
hereinbefore defined to admit the Building Commissioner or other duly
authorized officer for the purpose of making said inspection. The annual fee
for said inspection shall be as fixed by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Ch. 50 B. Rev. Ord. 1939; Amd. 1961)
CHAPTER 13
ANIMALS AND PETS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Purpose and Definitions
9-13-2: Administration of Animal Program
9-13-3: Impounding Procedures
9-13-4: Owner's Duties
9-13-5: Prohibited Activities of Owners and Others
9-13-6: Dealers in Household Pets
9-13-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Purpose of Chapter: It is the purpose of the Village to protect
animals from neglect and abuse, to protect residents from waste and excreta,
annoyance and injury by animals, to assist in providing housing for animals in
the custody of the Village, to cover the cost of licensing and caring for
animals and to establish a program to discourage the excessive multiplication
of animals.
   (B)   Definitions: The following words and phrases shall have the meanings,
and are hereby defined, as follows:
ANIMAL:    Every living creature, domestic or wild, not including any person.
ANIMAL     A place designated by the Village Board for the housing of animals in the
CONTROL    temporary custody of the Village of River Grove.
CENTER:
ANIMAL     A person or service appointed by the Village President and approved by the
CONTROL    Village Board to perform the duties described in this Chapter.
OFFICER:
NEUTERED   A male or female animal treated by a licensed veterinarian to render it
ANIMAL:    incapable of reproduction.
           Any person who has 1) a right of property in an animal, 2) keeps an animal, 3)
OWNER:     has an animal in his or her care or custody, or 4) who knowingly permits an
           animal to remain on or about any premises owned, controlled or otherwise
           occupied by him or her.
RUN AT     To be free of restraint off the premises of the owner.
LARGE:
VETERINARY Any place used for the treatment of animals operated by a veterinarian and
HOSPITAL:  licensed by the State of Illinois.
           Any animal which bites, or in any other manner attacks or attempts to attack,
VICIOUS    except that any animal that bites, attacks or attempts to attack any person
ANIMAL:    entering unlawfully upon its owner’s premises, or which is provoked to attack,
           shall not be deemed a vicious animal. (Ord. 1993-14, 4-7-94; amd. Ord. 2022-05,
           4-7-2022)
 
9-13-2: ADMINISTRATION OF ANIMAL PROGRAM:
   (A)   Administration: The Village license control officer and/or the Village
code enforcement officer are responsible for the administration of this
Chapter. Powers delegated to the Village license control officer and the
Village code enforcement officer may be delegated by him or her to other
appropriate Village departments as he or she may deem expedient for the
effectuation of this Chapter.
   (B)   Authority of Animal Control Officer and Police Officers: Animal
control officers and/or police officers, Village code enforcement officers, and
Village license control officers, shall enforce animal regulations. An animal
control officer, police officer, a Village code enforcement officer or a
Village license control officer, shall have authority to issue citations for
violations of this Chapter and shall wear or be in possession of a badge and
identification card identifying the person and the office under which the
officer acts. (Ord. 1993-14, 4-7-94; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 4-7-2022)
9-13-3: IMPOUNDING PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Impounding Animals: An animal control officer or police officer may
impound in a designated animal control center any dog or cat found running at
large, any abandoned animal, or any animal maintained in violation of this
Chapter.
   (B)   Record of Impounded Animals: A record shall be made of all impounded
animals, entering the breed, color and sex, whether licensed or not, if known,
and the name and address of the owner or keeper, if known. If practicable,
licensed animals shall be kept separated from unlicensed ones.
   (C)   Notice to Owner of Impoundment: Immediately, or as soon as possible,
upon impoundment of dogs or cats wearing a current license tag, notice by mail
and/or email shall be sent to the address and/or email address of the owner, as
set forth in the license application. Such notice shall inform the owner of the
procedure to regain custody of the animal.
   (D)   Redemption of Impounded Animals: An animal impounded under the
provisions of this Chapter may be redeemed by the owner within five (5) days
after the date of notice as provided for in subsection (C) hereof in the case
of an animal not wearing a current license tag and within seven (7) days from
the date of notice provided in subsection (C) in the case of an animal wearing
a current license tag upon the payment of the following fees:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for animals wearing a current animal
license tag impounded for the first time and redeemed within the seven (7) days
in addition to housing, feeding and critical care charges imposed by the animal
control center, if any.
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for animals wearing a current animal
license tag impounded for the second or subsequent times in addition to
housing, feeding and critical care charges imposed by the animal control
center, if any.
      3.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for animals not wearing a current
license tag, plus payment of the license fee if the animal is unlicensed, plus
housing, feeding and critical care charges imposed by the animal control
center, if any. Sundays and holidays shall not be counted as “days” for the
purpose of this Section, except for the computing of boarding fees. The payment
of the fees provided for in this Section shall be in addition to any fines
levied by the local adjudicator or Circuit Court of Cook County. Any redeemed
cat or dog not inoculated against rabies shall be taken forthwith by the owner
to a licensed veterinarian for a rabies inoculation.
   (E)   Disposition of Animals not Redeemed: Any animal not redeemed, as
provided herein, unless the animal can be placed for adoption or placed with a
humane society licensed under the Animal Welfare Act of the State of Illinois,
if the Village deems this not possible, the animal shall be destroyed in a
humane fashion. Every animal adopted from the Village animal control center
shall be required to be licensed, inoculated for rabies and spayed or neutered
within ten (10) days or as directed by a veterinarian licensed by the State of
Illinois.
   (F)   Impounded Animals Interference: No unauthorized person shall interfere
with the impounding of, or shall release, any animal that has been impounded by
authority of the Village.
   (G)   Unwanted Pets: Unwanted pets shall be placed for adoption or place
with a humane society licensed under the Animal Welfare Act of the State of
Illinois by its owner. Any owner who fails to properly place an unwanted pet
for rescue or adoption and abandons the pet shall be subject to a fine of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), and up to seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 1993-14, 4-7-94; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 4-7-2022)
9-13-4: OWNER'S DUTIES:
   (A)   Rabies Vaccination: It is the duty of all persons owning or keeping
either a dog or cat over four (4) months of age to have such animal vaccinated
against rabies. The rabies vaccination shall be given in an amount sufficient
to provide immunity from rabies for one year to three years as determined and
administered by a licensed veterinarian. A certificate from a licensed
veterinarian shall be furnished to the Village Clerk’s office. If the rabies
inoculation is effective for a period in excess of one year, the certificate
shall so state. Any person charged with the violation of this Section may avoid
prosecution by presenting a certification of inoculation and paying to the
office of the Village Clerk the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) with ten (10)
days of the notice of violation. Otherwise, any person charged with and found
to have violated this Section shall be subject to a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each day said violation is found to exist per animal.
   (B)   Animal Bites: The Police Department shall cause to be investigated
reports of animal bites. If an animal has bitten a person, the Police
Department shall notify the owner of the animal and the animal shall be
delivered promptly to a licensed veterinarian within the township, who shall
confine or cause to be confined such animal as provided in the animal control
act. If the owner is not known, the police officer or animal control officer
shall take such animal promptly to a licensed veterinarian to be confined, as
provided in the animal control act of the state of Illinois.
   (C)   Adoption Of State Law By Reference: Every owner of an animal in the
Village shall comply with the animal control act of the State of Illinois, as
prescribed by the Illinois Compiled Statutes, the provisions of which are
adopted by reference, three (3) copies of said act being on file in the office
of the Village Clerk, as provided by law. A certification of a licensed
veterinarian that the animal has been so inoculated and spayed or neutered
shall be necessary in addition to any requirement by the animal control act. If
these requirements are not fulfilled, the animal shall be re-impounded.
   (D)   Female Dogs Or Cats In Heat: Any person in control of a female dog or
cat in heat shall confine such dog or cat in an enclosed area as to preclude
other dogs or cats from being attracted to or coming in contact with such
female animal, except for the planned purpose of breeding.
   (E)   License Required; Record; License Temporarily Waived; Exempt Owners;
Fine:
      1.   Any person owning within the Village limits any dog four (4) months
of age or over, or any cat, four (4) months of age or over, shall obtain a
license for each animal within ten (10) days of acquiring such animal or
becoming a resident of the Village. Written application for such license shall
be made to the Village Clerk's office and shall state the name, postal address,
email address and telephone number of the owner and the name, breed, color, age
and sex of animal, the rabies inoculation certificate number, and any other
information deemed necessary. A current rabies inoculation certificate for a
dog or cat shall be required at the time of the application for license, which
shall certify that the inoculation is effective for the full current license
year. In addition, a certificate shall be required for each cat to be licensed
that such cat has been neutered. Upon payment of a license fee, the Village
Clerk's office shall issue a memorandum of registry and tag for each animal. In
the event a tag is lost, replacement tags may be purchased from the Village
Clerk's office for ten dollars ($10.00). No tag shall be transferred from one
animal to another. The license shall expire on September 30 of each calendar
year. New licenses, but not a renewal of a license for the previous year, shall
be issued after April 1 for a half year license fee.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal required to be
licensed to keep such animal within the Village unless it wears a collar with
the animal license tag for the current license year attached at all times the
animal is off the premises of the owner.
      3.   The Village Clerk shall keep a complete registry of all licensed
animals, describing the same by name, species, breed, color and sex, the name,
postal address, email address and telephone number of the owner as given, and
the number of the rabies inoculation certificate and license tag. Access is to
be given to the police department on a twenty four (24) hours per day
availability.
      4.   Animals belonging to nonresidents keeping animals temporarily within
the corporate limits of River Grove shall be exempt from this section;
provided, however, that such animals have a license from the jurisdiction of
the owner, if required, and that all the other provisions of this chapter must
be complied with.
      5.   The annual license fees obtained or renewed in a timely manner shall
be five dollars ($5.00) for each animal. The annual license fees obtained or
renewed in a tardy manner shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each
animal. There shall be no license fee for dogs used to assist the blind, or for
animals used by law enforcement agencies in the normal conduct of their
activities.
      6.   Any person charged with the violation of this section may avoid
prosecution by paying to the Village Clerk the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00)
and the appropriate license fee within ten (10) days of the notice of the
violation. Otherwise, any person charged with and found to have violated this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day said
violation is found to exist per animal.
   (F)   Animal Care: Each owner shall provide for each of his or her animals:
      1.   Sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water;
      2.   Adequate shelter and protection from the weather;
      3.   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering; and
      4.   Humane care and treatment.
   (G)   Miscellaneous Offenses: No owner shall permit or suffer his animal to:
      1.   Molest persons or vehicles by chasing or barking or biting;
      2.   Attack other animals;
      3.   Damage property other than that of the owner;
      4.   Bark, whine or howl excessively;
      5.   Create noxious or offensive odors.
   (H)   Responsibility for Removal of Excreta; Fine: The owner of every animal
shall be responsible for removal and sanitary disposition of any excreta
(deposited by his or her animals) anywhere within the Village, whether public
or private property and including without limitation property owned, leased or
otherwise used and occupied by the owner of the animal. When accompanying an
animal outside the owner’s premises, the owner shall have on his or her person
suitable means for the removal of such excreta. Any person charged with the
violation of this Section may avoid prosecution by paying to the office of the
Village Clerk the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) within ten (10) days of
the notice of violation. Otherwise, any person charged with and found to have
violated this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) and up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each violation found to exist or have occurred.
   (I)   Unlawful to Run at Large:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for an owner to permit any animal, except on a
leash controlled by the owner or any other responsible person authorized by the
owner, to use or be upon any public street, sidewalk, parkway, public area or
open premises within the Village. No leash shall be longer than twenty feet
(20') in length.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any cat or dog to run at large.
      3.   Any animal illegally running at large in the Village shall be
impounded in the animal control center as provided for in subsections
9-13-3(A) and (B).
      4.   Any person charged with the violation of this Section may avoid
prosecution by paying to the office of the Village Clerk the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) within ten (10) days of the notice of violation. Otherwise,
any person charged with and found to have violated this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and up to
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation found to exist or have
occurred.
   (J)   Prohibited Animals: It shall be unlawful to keep any pigs, swine,
sheep, cattle, horses, goats or similar animals, or any naturally wild animals,
except birds or fish, within the Village, except in zoological parks,
performing animal exhibitions, educational institutions, veterinary hospitals,
animal shelters, or as otherwise licensed under state or federal law.
   (K)   Limitation on Animals Per Household:
      1.   In the event that any person or entity has been found to be in
violation of this Chapter 13 of Title 9 of the Village Code, such person or
entity shall be subject to the following limitations and regulations:
         (a)   No person shall keep more than one pigeon, or more than two (2)
of the following: rabbits, guinea pigs, gerbils or fowl of any kind in the
Village, except as in those circumstances enumerated in subsection 9-13-4(J).
         (b)   No person shall keep or permit more than two (2) dogs to be or
remain in or about any single-family residence, rooming house, building or lot;
or more than one (1) dog in any unit within a multi-family structure within the
Village, except as in those circumstances enumerated in subsections 9-13-4(J)
and (K)l.
         (c)   Where cats are to be kept indoors, no person shall keep or
permit, more than four (4) cats in a single-family residence, building or lot;
and no more than two (2) in any unit within a multi-family structure except as
in those circumstances enumerated in subsections 9-13-4(J) and (K)l.
      2.   Nothwithstanding the foregoing, no person or entity shall keep a
total number of animals (not counting fish) in a single-family residence that
exceeds six (6); or in a unit within a multi-family that exceeds four (4).
   (L)   Nuisance Defined: Any animal that repeatedly violates the provisions
of this Chapter shall constitute a nuisance and said animal may be impounded as
outlined in this Chapter.
(Ord. 1993-14, 4-7-94; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 4-7-2022; Ord. 2024-07, 3-4-2024)
9-13-5: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF OWNERS AND OTHERS:
   (A)   Cruelty to Animal:
      1.   No person or owner may abandon, cruelly beat, torment, overload,
over work or otherwise abuse animals in a manner to cause unnecessary
suffering.
      2.   No person shall sell, offer for sale or give away as a pet any
rabbit or fowl which has been dyed, colored or otherwise treated to impart an
artificial color thereto. Baby chicks, duckling, geese or turtles shall not be
sold, offered for sale, bartered or given away as pets or novelties.
      3.   No person shall give away any animal as a prize, or as an inducement
to enter any competition or contest or place of amusement, or offer such as an
incentive to any business agreement for the purpose of attracting trade. This
provision shall not apply to an animal shelter and anti-cruelty society
attempting to secure an adoption of any sheltered animal.
      4.   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal,
provided that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his own
property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substances.
   (B)   Unauthorized Removal of Collars, Tags and Muzzles; Exceptions: It
shall be unlawful for any person, other than a police officer, animal control
officer, licensed veterinarian or owner, to remove the collar, license tag or
muzzle from any dog or cat within the limits of the Village without the consent
of the owner of such animal.
   (C)   Animals Prohibited in Public Buildings and Stores: Except as otherwise
permitted under state or federal law, it shall be unlawful for any animal, even
though on a leash, to be in or enter any public building, food establishment or
any store except a store for the sale or treatment of animals, anywhere within
the Village during the time that any of said places are open for use by the
public. This provision does not apply to dogs used to accompany blind persons
or for documented health purposes, or used by persons in the employ of
recognized law enforcement agencies.
   (D)   Animals Prohibited on School Premises and Village Playgrounds: It
shall be unlawful for any animal, even though on a leash to go or be upon any
school premises or Village maintained playground within the Village, or upon a
path or sidewalk extending through or within any school premises or Village
maintained playground within the Village, except for dogs used to accompany
blind persons. The provisions of this subsection and subsection (C) shall not
apply to animal exhibits or animal obedience training classes.
   (E)   Vicious Animals:
      1.   No person or entity shall permit any vicious animal to be on any
street, alley or other public place within the Village or upon the private
premises of any person other than the owner of such animal, unless such animal
is securely muzzled or caged. Vicious animals on the premises of the owner
shall be restrained so that they cannot attack persons lawfully on the premises
and the premises shall be maintained so that children cannot gain access
thereto.
      2.   If any vicious animal cannot be safely taken and impounded when
necessary for the protection of any person or property, such animal may be
slain by a police officer or person authorized by the Village; provided,
however, that in all cases where any animal so slain has bitten any person or
caused an abrasion to the skin of such person, no injury shall be done to the
head of the animal and it shall be the duty of the person slaying the animal to
immediately deliver the carcass to a licensed veterinarian to prepare the head
and brain for delivery to the Cook County Rabies Control Department.
      3.   If any animal such as a mouse, rat, squirrel or any other animal
bites a person or other animal and subsequently expires, the bite shall be
reported and the carcass delivered to the Village Department of Health.
   (F)   Diseased Animals: No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious
disease or an infectious disease shall be allowed to run at large or to be
exposed in any public place whereby the health of other animals or man may be
affected.
   (G)   Birds and Squirrels; Harming and Taking Young or Eggs: It shall be
unlawful for any person to kill or wound or attempt to kill or wound any
squirrel or bird, or for any person to take the eggs or young of any bird
within the limits of the Village.
   (H)   Ground Feeding Prohibited. Any person who performs or permits ground
feeding of animals and/or birds, including but not limited to cats, squirrels,
chipmunks, rats, mice, rabbits, raccoons, opossum, skunk, deer, ducks, geese or
any other wild animal on public or private property within the Village shall be
guilty of a violation of this section and shall be subject to a fine in
accordance with subpart (I) of this Section for each day the offense continues.
Above ground hanging of bird feeders is allowed so long as: (1) all feed is
placed in a container or feeder designed for the specific purpose of feeding
birds; and (2) the area around the feeder is kept free and clear of bird food.
   (I)   Any person charged with the violation of this Section may avoid
prosecution by paying to the office of the Village Clerk the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) within ten (10) days of the notice of violation. Otherwise,
any person charged with and found to have violated this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and up to
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation found to exist or have
occurred. (Ord. 1993-14, 4-7-94; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 4-7-2022; Ord. 2025-09, 3-
17-2025)
9-13-6: DEALERS IN HOUSEHOLD PETS:
   (A)   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of buying,
selling, grooming, training or dealing in animals used as household pets or for
domestic purposes without first obtaining a State and Village license.
   (B)   Application; Investigation; Issuance of License: Any person desiring a
license to engage in the business of buying, selling or dealing in birds, dogs
and other small animals used as household pets and for domestic purposes, shall
make written application to the Village Clerk, stating the name and residence
of the applicant and the place at which it is intended or desired to carry on
such business, giving the location as well as description of the premises. It
shall be the duty of the Health Inspector and other appropriate inspection
personnel of the Village to cause an investigation of the premises named and
described in such application for the purpose of determining the fitness and
suitability of such premises for such business. Upon recommendation of the
Health Inspector, and other appropriate personnel, and upon payment by such
applicant to the Village Clerk of the license fee as set out in the Village
license fee schedule, the Village Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued to
such applicant a license. A valid license certificate shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in such place of business. No license shall be issued
hereunder unless the applicant is in compliance with the Animal Welfare Act of
the State of Illinois. (Ord. 1993-14, 4-7-94; amd. Ord. 2022-05, 4-7-2022)
CHAPTER 14
AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT
SECTION:
9-14-1: Established
9-14-2: Duties
9-14-3: Powers
9-14-4: Training
9-14-5: Residency
9-14-6: Fingerprints Required
9-14-7: Death In The Line Of Duty
9-14-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established an auxiliary police unit.
   (A)   The president may appoint auxiliary policemen for one year terms.
   (B)   Auxiliary policemen shall not be members of the regular police
department of the village, and they shall not supplement members of the regular
police department of the village in the performance of their assigned and
normal duties, except as otherwise provided in the Illinois municipal code.
   (C)   Identification symbols worn by auxiliary policemen shall be different
and distinct from those used by members of the regular police department.
   (D)   Auxiliary policemen shall at all times during the performance of their
duties be subject to the direction and control of the chief of police of the
village.
   (E)   Auxiliary policemen shall not carry firearms, except with the
permission of the chief of police and while in uniform and in the performance
of their duties. (Ord. 1998-04, 4-9-1998)
9-14-2: DUTIES:
Auxiliary policemen shall only be assigned to perform the following duties in
the village:
   (A)   To aid or direct traffic within the village;
   (B)   To aid in control of natural or humanmade disasters;
   (C)   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the chief of police;
and
   (D)   When it is impractical for members of the regular police department to
perform those normal and regular police duties, the chief of police of the
regular police department may assign auxiliary policemen to perform those
normal and regular police duties. (Ord. 1998-04, 4-9-1998)
9-14-3: POWERS:
Auxiliary police officers, when on duty, shall exercise only such power as
necessary to perform the duties set forth in section
9-14-2 of this chapter, and shall not exercise any conservator of the peace
powers, and are specifically prohibited from exercising the following powers:
   (A)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, any person
who breaks the peace or is found violating any local ordinance or any criminal
law of the state;
   (B)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
   (C)   To detain arrested persons in custody.
In addition to obtaining the permission of the chief of police before carrying
any firearm, an auxiliary police officer shall not carry a firearm in
performing assigned duties unless and until the individual successfully
completes the forty (40) hour mandatory firearms training course mandated by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-30-20, as amended. (Ord. 2006-32, 12-7-2006)
9-14-4: TRAINING:
Auxiliary policemen, before entering upon any of their duties, shall receive a
course of training in the use of weapons and other police procedures
appropriate for the exercise of the powers conferred upon them under this
chapter and the Illinois municipal code. The training and course of study shall
be determined and provided by the chief of police, and shall include, at a
minimum, approximately two hundred twenty five (225) hours of in house
training, consisting of approximately forty (40) hours in the use of firearms
and guns; approximately fifty (50) hours in the use of the police radios and
dispatch facilities; and approximately forty (40) hours in patrolling duties.
(Ord. 1998-04, 4-9-1998)
9-14-5: RESIDENCY:
Auxiliary policemen need not be residents of the village. (Ord. 1998-04, 4-9-
1998)
9-14-6: FINGERPRINTS REQUIRED:
Before the appointment of an auxiliary policeman, the person's fingerprints
shall be taken, and no person shall be appointed as an auxiliary policeman if
that person has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral
turpitude. (Ord. 1998-04, 4-9-1998)
9-14-7: DEATH IN THE LINE OF DUTY:
The law enforcement officers, civil defense workers, civil air patrol members,
paramedics and firemen compensation act shall be applicable to auxiliary
policemen upon their death in the line of duty described in the Illinois
municipal code. (Ord. 1998-04, 4-9-1998)
CHAPTER 14A
PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS
SECTION:
9-14A-1: Creation Of Position
9-14A-2: Appointment Procedures And Standards
9-14A-3: Probationary Period; Mandatory Training
9-14A-4: Part Time Police Officer Duties And Limitation Upon Hours Worked
9-14A-1: CREATION OF POSITION:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-30-21, the Corporate
Authorities may appoint, discipline, and discharge part time police officers
annually, in such number as the Corporate Authorities determine is necessary
and appropriate to supplement the full time sworn members of the Police
Department. "Part time police officer" means a law enforcement officer who has
completed his or her one year of probationary period, obtained the necessary
certification of training, and is employed on a part time basis as a law
enforcement officer by the Village. Appointed part time police officers shall
be members of the regular Police Department, except for pension purposes, but
shall not be assigned under any circumstances to supervise or direct full time
police officers of the Police Department and shall not be used as permanent
replacements for permanent full time police officers. (Ord. 2004-02, 4-15-2004)
9-14A-2: APPOINTMENT PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS:
   (A)   Certificate Of Appointment: The President, with the consent of the
Board of Trustees, shall appoint all part time officers of the Police
Department of the Village. The President shall have the sole authority to issue
certificates of appointment. The President and Clerk of the Village shall sign
and issue certificates of appointment to any part time officer of the Police
Department upon appointment of such part time officer by action of the
President and Village Board.
   (B)   U.S. Citizen: An applicant for the part time police officer position
must be: 1) a citizen of the United States; or 2) an alien admitted for
permanent residence and produce evidence of intention to become a citizen of
the United States; but only citizens of the United States shall be appointed to
the part time police officer position. (Ord. 2004-02, 4-15-2004)
   (C)   Residency: Any person who is appointed a part time police officer of
the Police Department, unless currently maintained, shall establish a permanent
residency that is located within thirty (30) miles of the Police Department of
the Village of River Grove within six (6) months after the date the part time
officer completes a one year probationary period of employment. All part time
police officers shall maintain such residency during the course of employment,
and any individual failing to establish or maintain such residency shall be
subject to immediate termination from employment. Residency requirements in
effect at the time an individual enters the police service of the Village will
not be made more restrictive for that individual during his or her period of
service for the Village, or be made a condition of promotion. (Ord. 2018-08, 4-
5-2018)
   (D)   Applications: The Village shall furnish application forms for
individuals seeking appointment to a part time police officer position in the
Police Department. Application forms may be obtained from the Police Department
or Municipal office of the Village. Applicants must comply with the
requirements of the form in every respect, and file a completed application
prior to taking any examination. All applicants shall submit with their
applications a nonrefundable twenty dollar ($20.00) application fee.
   (E)   Application Standards: The Corporate Authorities shall determine from
the application form if an applicant meets the prequalification standards for
the position. Among other requirements, three (3) character references shall be
given who are reputable citizens and who do not hold any elective or appointive
positions in the Village, County, State or Federal government. These persons
shall have known the applicant for at least three (3) years and shall state,
when asked, that it is their belief that the applicant is of good moral
character, of correct and orderly deportment, and that in their opinion, the
applicant is qualified for the position he or she seeks, and that such citizen
agrees that a certificate signed by him be made public. Defective or incomplete
applications shall be rejected by the Personnel Director.
   (F)   Required Documents: All applicants shall furnish with their
applications a copy of their military service record, discharge papers, birth
certificate, high school diploma or GED certificate, and may submit a copy of
their college or university degree.
   (G)   False Statement: A false statement knowingly made by a person in an
application for examination, connivance in any false statement made in any
certificate which may accompany such application or complicity in any fraud
touching the same, shall be regarded as good cause for exclusion from the
examination process.
   (H)   Disqualification From Appointment: The village may refuse to examine
an applicant or, after examination, to appoint an applicant if:
      1.   The applicant is found lacking in any of the established preliminary
requirements for the service for which he or she has applied;
      2.   The applicant is physically unable to perform the duties of the
position to which he or she seeks appointment;
      3.   The applicant is addicted to the habitual use of narcotics or
intoxicating beverages;
      4.   The applicant has been convicted of a felony or any misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude. See sections 11-6, 11-7, 11-9, 11-14, 11-15, 11-17,
11-18, 11-19, 12-2, 12-6, 12-15, 14-4, 16-1, 21.1-3, 24-3.1, 24-5, 25-1, 28-3,
31-1, 31-4, 31-6, 31-7, 32-1, 32-2, 32-3, 32-4, 32-8, and subsections 24-1(1),
(6) and (8) of the criminal code of 1961;
      5.   The applicant has been dismissed from any public service for good
cause;
      6.   The applicant has attempted to practice any deception or fraud in
his or her application;
      7.   The applicant is not qualified in personal qualifications or health,
either mental or physical;
      8.   The applicant's character and employment references are
unsatisfactory;
      9.   The applicant does not possess a high school diploma or its
equivalent;
      10.   The applicant gives false statements or misrepresents material
facts to the board;
      11.   The applicant has been classified by the local selective service
draft board as a conscientious objector, or who has ever been so classified;
      12.   The applicant is a habitual gambler;
Any applicant deemed disqualified hereunder shall be notified by the personnel
director and upon justifiable written request of the applicant, made within
five (5) days after the giving of such notice, shall be given the opportunity
to be heard.
   (I)   Physical And Medical Examinations: If an applicant's application is
accepted by the personnel director, applicants may be required to submit to a
physical and medical examination by a licensed physician as appointed by and
used by the board of fire and police commissioners of the village of River
Grove, Illinois. Applicants must be of such height and weight proportionately
as the medical examiner has approved. All applicants must have at least 20/70
vision in each eye without glasses, provided each eye is correctable to 20/20
vision.
   (J)   Physical Agility Test: If an applicant passes the physical and medical
examination, the personnel director shall notify all passing applicants to
present themselves for a "physical agility test". Notice shall include time,
place, and equipment necessary for testing. Before taking a "physical agility
test", all applicants shall execute and deliver to the village a release of all
liability as the result of taking a "physical agility test" in favor of the
village of River Grove, or any other agency involved in such testing, on a form
to be prescribed by the village. A copy of said form shall be attached to the
application form.
   (K)   Age: All applicants shall be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
Applicants who are twenty (20) years of age and who have successfully completed
two (2) years of law enforcement studies at an accredited college or university
may submit an application for appointment to part time duty with the police
department. Proof of birth date will be required before appointment to a
regular full time sworn position in the police department. (Ord. 2004-02, 4-15-
2004)
9-14A-3: PROBATIONARY PERIOD; MANDATORY TRAINING:
   (A)   All appointed part time police officers shall serve a one year
probationary period of "certified" employment commencing on the later of the
date of the appointment by the corporate authorities or the individual's
presentation to the village of a training certificate provided for herein.
During this probationary period of employment, a part time police officer's
employment may be terminated with or without reason, with or without notice, in
the sole discretion of the corporate authorities. After completing one year of
probationary employment, an applicant shall be classified as a part time police
officer and subject to the personnel code of the village.
   (B)   Part time police officers shall be trained under the intergovernmental
law enforcement officer's in-service training act, 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 720/1 et seq. ("the act"), in accordance with the procedures for part
time police officers established by the Illinois law enforcement training
standards board ("the board"). Any applicant appointed to serve as a part time
police officer must obtain from the board a certificate: 1) attesting to his or
her successful completion of the part time police training course; 2) attesting
to his or her satisfactory completion of a training program of similar content
and number of hours that has been found acceptable by the board under the
provisions of the act; or 3) attesting to the board's determination that the
part time police training course is unnecessary because of the person's
extensive prior law enforcement experience. All applicants appointed must
obtain this certificate within eighteen (18) months after the initial date of
appointment as a probationary part time police officer by the corporate
authorities. Furthermore, an appointed probationary part time police officer
must be enrolled and accepted into a board approved course within six (6)
months after appointment by the corporate authorities. Any applicant failing to
enroll and be accepted in the required course or failing to obtain the board's
certificate shall forfeit his or her position as an appointed part time police
officer. (Ord. 2004-02, 4-15-2004)
9-14A-4: PART TIME POLICE OFFICER DUTIES AND LIMITATION UPON HOURS WORKED:
A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities of a full time
police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the general orders of
the River Grove police department, but the number of hours a part time officer
may work within a calendar year is hereby restricted as follows: A part time
police officer who is employed by one or more units of local government shall
work no more than one thousand five hundred sixty (1,560) hours per twelve (12)
month period beginning on January 1 of any calendar year. Individuals employed
by one or more other units of local government as a part time police officer in
addition to the village of River Grove shall comply with this limitation upon
hours worked, and if a part time officer fails to comply with this limitation,
the officer shall forfeit the position of part time police officer with the
village of River Grove. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-3-2013)
CHAPTER 14B
COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICERS
SECTION:
9-14B-1: Community Service Officer Position
9-14B-2: Powers And Duties
9-14B-3: Training
9-14B-4: Residency
9-14B-5: Fingerprints Required
9-14B-1: COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER POSITION:
There is hereby created the position of community service officer (CSO), which
position shall be a civilian administrative position whose primary
responsibility is to enforce or administer the enforcement of certain local
ordinances and codes which do not require the presence of a regular sworn
police officer.
   (A)   CSOs shall be limited to the number authorized by the president and
board of trustees in their annual appropriations ordinance and their
compensation shall be fixed by the president and board of trustees from time to
time.
   (B)   CSOs shall be appointed by the director of police with the consent of
the president and serve at the pleasure and under the direction of the director
of police.
   (C)   All individuals appointed to the CSO position shall be a minimum of
eighteen (18) years of age.
   (D)   CSOs shall not be members of the regular police department, and shall
not supplement members of the regular police department in the performance of
their assigned and normal duties, but rather shall perform only those duties
that do not require the services of a sworn officer.
   (E)   CSOs shall wear uniforms and identification symbols that are different
and distinctive from the uniforms and identification symbols worn by the
regular sworn full time, part time and auxiliary police officers.
   (F)   CSOs shall at all times during the performance of their duties be
subject to the direction and control of the director of police. CSOs shall work
such hours as may be assigned by the director of police, or the full time
supervisor in charge of police department operations.
   (G)   As civilian employees, CSOs shall neither carry firearms nor have any
arrest powers. (Ord. 2006-06, 5-4-2006)
9-14B-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
CSOs are hereby authorized to perform the following tasks:
   (A)   Assist in the enforcement of the village ordinances and local codes,
including, but not limited to, ordinances regulating vehicle parking, building
and demolitions, fire lanes, animals, traffic control, and business licensing
and regulations.
   (B)   To respond to and investigate complaints concerning stray animals,
accidents on private property that do not concern personal injury, unlawful
business operations, and such other matters that do not require the presence of
a full time sworn police officer.
   (C)   Assist in the control of traffic and school crossing duties as
assigned by the director of police or shift supervisor.
   (D)   Transfer bond money and tickets to the office of the clerk of the
circuit court, and retrieve court sheets, warrants, and other police documents
or records from the circuit court.
   (E)   Obtain and deliver meals for prisoners housed in the police station
lockup as directed by the director of police or shift supervisor.
   (F)   Issue citations, complaints, and notices to appear on behalf of the
village in the event that the CSOs observe a violation of a local ordinance or
code.
   (G)   Such other duties as may be assigned by the director of police or
supervisor in charge of the police department. (Ord. 2006-06, 5-4-2006)
9-14B-3: TRAINING:
Community service officers, before entering upon any of their duties, shall
receive a course of training as directed by the director of police concerning
procedures appropriate for the exercise of the powers conferred upon them under
this chapter. The training and course of study shall be determined and provided
by the director of police, and shall include training in the use of the police
radios and dispatch facilities and patrolling and investigative duties. (Ord.
2006-06, 5-4-2006)
9-14B-4: RESIDENCY:
Community service officers need not be residents of the village. (Ord. 2006-06,
5-4-2006)
9-14B-5: FINGERPRINTS REQUIRED:
Before the appointment of any CSO, the individual's fingerprints shall be
taken, and no person shall be appointed as a CSO if that individual has been
convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 2006-06,
5-4-2006)
CHAPTER 15
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
9-15-1: Establishment
9-15-2: Director
9-15-3: Functions
9-15-4: Service as Mobile Support Team
9-15-5: Agreement with Other Political Subdivision
9-15-6: Emergency Action
9-15-7: Compensation
9-15-8: Reimbursement by State
9-15-9: Purchases and Expenditures
9-15-10: Oath
9-15-11: Office
9-15-12: Appropriation
9-15-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created a local municipal civil defense organization for the
Village to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting
from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or
from natural disaster, in accordance with "The Illinois Civil Defense act of
1951," as amended.
This civil defense organization shall consist of the Director and additional
members to be selected by the Director.
9-15-2: DIRECTOR:
The Director of the civil defense organization shall be appointed by the
President and Board of Trustees and shall serve until removed by the same.
The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training, and operation of the civil defense organization,
subject to the direction and control of the President, as provided by statute.
(1964 Code)
The Director shall receive such compensation for his services as the Board of
Trustees may from time to time fix. (Ord. 1965-13; 6-3-65)
9-15-3: FUNCTIONS:
The civil defense organization shall perform such civil defense functions
within the Village as shall be prescribed in and by the state civil defense
plan and program prepared by the Governor, and such orders, rules and
regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor, and in addition shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any Mutual Aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality or
quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the "Illinois Civil Defense Act
of 1951," as amended.
9-15-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the civil defense organization may be designated as
members of a Mobile Support Team created by the state director of civil defense
as provided by law.
The leader of such Mobile Support Team shall be designated by the Director of
the civil defense organization.
Any member of a Mobile Support Team who is a Village employee or officer while
serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the state director of civil
defense, shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights,
and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is
not a paid officer or employee of the Village, while so serving, shall receive
from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law.
9-15-5: AGREEMENT WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISION:
The director of the civil defense organization may negotiate Mutual Aid
agreements with other municipal corporations or political subdivisions of the
state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by
the Board of Trustees and by the state director of civil defense.
9-15-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the Governor declares that a civil defense emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of Illinois of major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action or from natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the civil defense
organization to cooperate fully with the state office of civil defense and with
the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
9-15-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the River Grove civil defense organization who are paid employees or
officers of the Village, if called for training by the state director of civil
defense, shall receive for time spent in such training the same rate of pay as
is attached to the position held; members who are not such Village employees or
officers shall receive for such training time such compensation as may be
established by the Board of Trustees.
9-15-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The state treasurer may receive and advocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the Village for expenses incident to training
members of the civil defense, compensation for services and expenses of members
of a Mobile Support Team while serving outside the Village in response to a
call by the Governor or state director of civil defense, as provided by law,
and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to civil defense
activities, as provided by law.
9-15-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the Director of civil defense,
authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the Village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from natural disaster.
In the event of enemy caused or natural disaster, the Director of civil defense
is authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment, or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to municipal contracts or obligations, as
authorized by "The Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951," provided that, if the
Board of Trustees meets at such time, he shall act subject to the directions
and restrictions imposed by that body.
9-15-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the civil defense
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be flied with the director:
"I,                         ,                          of the civil defense
organization of the Village of River Grove do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter, and I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the River Grove civil defense
organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence.
9-15-11: OFFICE:
The Village President is authorized to designate space in the Village Hall or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Village Board for the Village civil
defense organization as its office.
9-15-12: APPROPRIATION:
The Village Board may have an appropriation for civil defense purposes in the
manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for civil defense purposes
only, a tax not to exceed five cents (5¢) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as
provided by "The Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951," as amended. (9-7-61)
CHAPTER 16
OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS
SECTION:
9-16-1: Unlawful To Block Streets
9-16-2: Dumpster
9-16-1: UNLAWFUL TO BLOCK STREETS:
Any person owning or operating steam railroad cars or street railway cars
within the Village, who shall by themselves, their agents or employees, or any
agent or employee of such persons who shall cause or allow any railroad or
street railway car to be left and remain standing still upon any street,
sidewalk and railroad crossing within said Village for a longer period than ten
(10) minutes, shall be fined in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each
offense and every consecutive ten (10) minutes thereafter that any railroad car
or street railway car shall be so permitted to remain on such street, sidewalk
or railroad crossing, shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. (Ch.
62; Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-16-2: DUMPSTER:
In order to assist an owner or contractor in the disposition and removal of
construction and other debris from a premises, a dumpster may be permitted to
be placed on a public street, in close proximity to the premises, subject to
the following conditions:
   (A)   Application shall be made to the Village for a permit, not less than
fourteen (14) days prior to the date of intended use.
   (B)   Upon the placing of a dumpster, notice thereof shall be given in
writing to the Police Department.
   (C)   Barricades with flashing lights shall be positioned to the front and
rear of the dumpster but no further into the street than the outer edge
thereof. A minimum of two (2) reflectors shall be attached to each side
thereof.
   (D)   A certificate of liability insurance with minimum limits of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) and naming the Village as additional
insured shall be deposited prior to the placing of the dumpster.
   (E)   Permits, if granted, shall expire no later than ten (10) days after
date of issuance. No renewal shall be granted. (Ord. 1988-9, 6-2-1988)
   (F)   The permit fee is as indicated in section
1-27-1 of this Code. (Ord. 1988-9, 6-2-1988; amd. Ord. 2017-18, 11-16-2017)
CHAPTER 17
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
9-17-1: Definition
9-17-2: State Registration And License Plate Required
9-17-3: Application For Vehicle Sticker
9-17-4: Fees
9-17-5: Expiration Of Licenses/Newly Acquired Vehicles
9-17-6: License And Registration Tag
9-17-7: State License
9-17-8: License Required To Use Motor Vehicle For Hire
9-17-9: Application For A "For Hire" License
9-17-10: Clerk To Issue For Hire Decalcomania Device Or Metal Plate
9-17-11: Plates Or Devices On Motorcycles Or Motor Tricycles
9-17-12: Plates Or Decalcomania Devices To Be Kept Clear
9-17-13: Duplicate License And Registration Tag Fee
9-17-14: Special Fees
9-17-15: License Fee; Senior Citizens
9-17-16: License Fee; Disabled Individuals
9-17-17: Motor Driven Or Electric Cycles And Scooters
9-17-18: Vendors And Retailers Of Motor Driven Or Electric Cycles And Scooters
9-17-19: Penalty
9-17-1: DEFINITION:
Whenever the term "motor vehicle" is used in this chapter, it shall be
construed to include automobiles, motorized cycles, tractors, traction engines,
motorized or electric scooters, and all other vehicles propelled other than by
muscular power, and including all vehicles or trailers, or semitrailers pulled
or towed by a motor vehicle, but excluding cars of railways and other vehicles
running only upon fixed rails or tracks. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to apply to or to affect bicycles or tricycles or such other vehicles
as are propelled exclusively by human muscular pedal power. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-
2003)
9-17-2: STATE REGISTRATION AND LICENSE PLATE REQUIRED:
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate any motor vehicle within the village unless
the same has been registered in manner and form as required by the applicable
statutes of the state of Illinois and unless the registration plates issued for
such motor vehicle are properly displayed thereon; provided that, in the event
that the motor vehicle has less than one hundred fifty (150) cubic centimeter
displacement, or is powered by electricity, and the state of Illinois does not
require such registration, it is unlawful to operate such a motor vehicle
within the village unless the same has been registered in manner and form as
required by this code and unless the registration sticker issued for such a
motor vehicle is properly displayed thereon. The vehicle registration sticker
shall be required of any owner of any motor vehicle registered to a village
address even if such vehicle is temporarily not in operating condition or
intermittently garaged outside of the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, either having any motor vehicle
or other vehicle registered to an address within the corporate boundaries of
the village or residing within the village to use or to cause or permit any
agent to use any motor vehicle or other vehicle upon any street, avenue, alley
or public highway at any location within the village, unless such motor vehicle
or other vehicle shall be licensed and registered as required by this code and
state law. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-17, 8-19-2024)
9-17-3: APPLICATION FOR VEHICLE STICKER:
Any person desiring a license and registration tag for any such motor vehicle
or other vehicle shall file an application with the clerk upon such form as may
be provided by said village, setting forth the name and address of the
applicant, a description of the motor vehicle, wagon or other vehicle for which
the license is desired, and the place where the same is to be kept when not in
use, also the number and kinds of other vehicles kept by said applicant at such
place and such other information as may be prescribed; and upon payment by such
applicant of the license fee hereinafter provided to the clerk, a license and
registration tag shall be issued and attested by said clerk, authorizing the
use of such vehicle within the village until the expiration of such license.
(Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-4: FEES:
The state of Illinois offers a number of different license plates that may be
displayed on passenger vehicles, trucks and vans weighing eight thousand
(8,000) pounds or less, sport utility vehicles and motorcycles. The fees
associated with the sticker required by a vehicle is not determined by whether
the secretary of state and Illinois law permit a certain plate to be displayed
on a passenger vehicle, truck or van weighing eight thousand (8,000) pounds or
less, a sport utility vehicle or motorcycles. Rather, the fee to be paid for
the required sticker is strictly determined by the type of vehicle for which
you are applying and not the plate being displayed on the vehicle. All fees
shall be in accordance with the following schedules:
   (A)   License Fees Other Than Trucks: The license fees for a registration
tag for each motor vehicle to be paid annually to the village shall be as
follows:
 
License Class      Before October 1 On Or After October On Or After On Or After
625 ILCS 5/1-217                    1                   November 1  December 1
First Division
Passenger vehicles
(capacity of 10    $20.00           $40.00              $50.00      $60.00
passengers or
less)
Senior citizen
(limit 1 per       $1.00            $10.00              $15.00      $30.00
household)
Municipal
employees and
elected officials  $10.00           $40.00              $50.00      $60.00
(limit of 1 per
family)
Recreational       $40.00           $80.00              $90.00      $100.00
vehicles
Motorcycles,
cycles and         $20.00           $40.00              $50.00      $60.00
scooters
Handicap placard
or plate (discount $5.00            $20.00              $30.00      $30.00
limited to 1 per
household)
 
   (B)   Second Division Vehicle/Trucks: Vehicles which are designed for
carrying more than 10 persons, those designed or used for living quarters and
those vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or
cargo and those motor vehicles of the First Division remodeled for use and used
as motor vehicles of the Second Division. Registration fees are established
according to letter and corresponding gross weight capacity minimums and
maximums, as follows:
 
License Class     Before October 1 On Or After October On Or After On Or After
                                   1                   November 1  December 1
B (up to 8,000    $40.00           $80.00              $90.00      $100.00
pounds)
B Class senior
citizen (limit 1  $20.00           $40.00              $90.00      $100.00
per household)
D and F (8,001 to $55.00           $110.00             $115.00     $125.00
16,000 pounds)
H (16,001 pounds  $85.00           $170.00             $180.00     $190.00
and over)
 
   (C)   Duplicate Stickers: All duplicate stickers for any class of vehicle
shall be five dollars ($5.00). (Ord. 2010-05, 2-18-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 3-
4-2024; Ord. 2024-23, 10-7-2024; Ord. 2025-04, 3-17-2025)
9-17-5: EXPIRATION OF LICENSES/NEWLY ACQUIRED VEHICLES:
All licenses and registration tags shall expire on September 30 following the
date of issue. On or about August 1st of each calendar year the Village may
issue 60-day advance renewal notices to previous purchasers of motor vehicle
license stickers. Additionally, an owner who acquires or purchases an
unregistered vehicle shall have thirty (30) days to apply for and obtain a
license sticker for such vehicle. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-07,
3-4-2024; Ord. 2025-04, 3-17-2025)
9-17-6: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION TAG:
   (A)   Upon the execution of said license, the clerk shall deliver to the
applicant a decalcomania transfer tag bearing a number, and the name of the
class to which said motor vehicle or other vehicle belongs, and the year for
which said license is issued.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of such applicant to affix such tag in a
conspicuous place upon said vehicle or other vehicle, where it can be readily
seen. It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle or other vehicle, although
duly licensed, to be used upon the streets, avenues or alleys of the village
unless such tag is attached thereto, as aforesaid. In the case of motor
vehicles having a windshield, the applicant shall attach the decalcomania
device to the lower right hand corner of the windshield in such manner as to be
easily read from the outside. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-7: STATE LICENSE:
Except as otherwise provided herein, no motor vehicle shall be licensed and
registered as herein provided, unless the same shall have been licensed by the
secretary of state, under what is known as the "motor vehicle law" of the state
of Illinois, for the period of time for which a license is sought from the
village. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-8: LICENSE REQUIRED TO USE MOTOR VEHICLE FOR HIRE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit the carriage or
transportation of persons for hire, either directly or by any agent, or to use
any motor vehicle or other vehicle in the transportation of persons or property
for hire unless the owner of such motor vehicle or other vehicle be licensed to
use the same as provided herein. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-9: APPLICATION FOR A "FOR HIRE" LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license for any such motor vehicle or other vehicle shall
prepare an application upon a form provided by the clerk setting forth the name
and address of the applicant; a description of the motor vehicle or vehicle for
which the license is desired; its state license number, if any; the place where
such motor vehicle or vehicle is to be kept when not in use; the number and
kind of other motor vehicles or other vehicles kept by said applicant at such
place; and such other information as may be prescribed. Such application shall
be transmitted to the clerk, and upon payment by the applicant of the
applicable license fee to the clerk, said clerk shall issue a license which
shall be attested by said clerk authorizing the use of said motor vehicle or
other vehicle within the village until the expiration of such license. (Ord.
2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-10: CLERK TO ISSUE FOR HIRE DECALCOMANIA DEVICE OR METAL PLATE:
The clerk, upon the issuance of a "for hire" license, shall issue a
decalcomania device in the form of a sticker or a metal plate where the sticker
cannot be used, bearing the number and name or class to which such vehicle
belongs and the year for which such license is issued, and it shall be the duty
of the licensee to attach said sticker or plate in a conspicuous place on the
front of such vehicle where the same can be plainly seen. In the case of
automobiles having a windshield, the licensee shall attach the decalcomania
device to the lower right hand corner of the windshield in such manner as to be
easily read from the outside. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-11: PLATES OR DEVICES ON MOTORCYCLES OR MOTORTRICYCLES:
In the case of cycles or scooters, or such other similar motor vehicles, the
license plate and registration tag provided for herein shall be placed at the
rear thereof. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-12: PLATES OR DECALCOMANIA DEVICES TO BE KEPT CLEAR:
Any operator of a motor vehicle person shall keep the license plate and
decalcomania device clear of dust, mud or other obstructions so that the same
can be plainly seen at all times. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-13: DUPLICATE LICENSE AND REGISTRATION TAG FEE:
Any person desiring a duplicate license and registration tag shall first
present to the village the original sticker or a portion thereof before a
duplicate sticker will be issued. The fee for a duplicate license and
registration tag shall be five dollars ($5.00). (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-14: SPECIAL FEES:
The following special fees shall be applicable:
   (A)   Licenses and registration tags purchased within thirty (30) days after
a motor vehicle is acquired or within thirty (30) days after the owner thereof
establishes residency within the Village of River Grove shall be available at
the before October 1 fee. In the event the applicant fails to apply for the
license and registration tag within this thirty (30) day period, the license
and registration fee shall be the on or after October 1 fee.
   (B)   Applicable license fees shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%)
rounded to the nearest dollar, if application is made on or after April 1 of
any year, upon satisfactory proof that the vehicle for which application is
made was acquired or that the owner thereof established residency within the
village within said period, and the applicant is otherwise in compliance with
subsection (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 3-4-2024)
9-17-15: LICENSE FEE; SENIOR CITIZENS:
Any "senior citizen" of the village, which for the purpose of this chapter is
defined as any person sixty five (65) years of age or older, who has been a
continuous resident of the village for at least six (6) months, may purchase a
vehicle license for not more than one motor vehicle owned and operated by such
senior citizen for one dollar ($1.00) without proration. Any person claiming
the benefit of this section shall furnish, at the time of applying for a
license, the following: a) Medicare card; b) a valid Illinois driver's license;
and c) the certificate of title of motor vehicle. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-16: LICENSE FEE; DISABLED INDIVIDUALS:
Any person, having resided in the village for a period in excess of six (6)
months, may apply for the issuance of a handicapped vehicle license tag, which
shall be designated as such by the letter "H" following the number, and which
shall have a fee of five dollars ($5.00), in accordance with the following
conditions:
   (A)   Application Requirements For License: Applicants for a handicapped
license tag hereunder shall submit, at the time of applying for such a license,
the following:
      1.   A statement certified by a licensed physician to the effect that
such person is a physically disabled person as defined by the Illinois motor
vehicle code, or in the alternative, provide adequate documentation that such
person has a class 1A, class 2A or type four disability under the provisions of
section 4A of the Illinois identification card act. For the purposes of this
section, an Illinois disabled person identification card issued pursuant to
said act indicating that the person thereon named has a disability shall be
adequate documentation of such disability; and
      2.   A valid Illinois driver's license; and
      3.   A certificate of title of the motor vehicle for which a handicap
license tag is sought.
   (B)   Registration Of Vehicle: Only one vehicle per household may be
registered under this section or any other section of this code providing for
special license fees. The documentation required in subsection (A) of this
section shall not be required in the case of renewals for vehicles owned and
registered under the same name.
   (C)   Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this section shall apply
to passenger type vehicles only and shall not be interpreted to require a
disabled person to obtain a handicapped license from the state of Illinois.
(Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-17: MOTOR DRIVEN OR ELECTRIC CYCLES AND SCOOTERS:
   (A)   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, "motor driven or
electric cycles and scooters" are defined as any motorcycle, motor scooter,
motorized pedal cycle, motor driven skateboard with less than one hundred fifty
(150) cubic centimeter displacement, or electric scooter, electric pedal cycle
or electric skateboard, including, without limitation, any cycle or scooter
that is capable of being powered by both motor or electric and human pedal
power, but excluding those cycles or scooters that are only capable of being
powered by human pedal power.
   (B)   Driver's License Required: It is unlawful for any individual to
operate or use any motor driven or electric powered cycle or scooter within the
corporate boundaries of the village unless such individual has a valid driver's
license issued by the Illinois secretary of state or such other state.
   (C)   Operation: No person having a valid driver's license shall operate a
motor driven or electric powered cycle or scooter upon any public or private
street, parking lot, or bike path unless said cycle or scooter has been
registered and licensed in accordance with this section. No person shall
operate a motor driven or electric powered cycle or scooter upon any public
sidewalk or public park.
   (D)   Application; Registration: Any person desiring a license and
registration tag for any motor driven or electric powered cycle or scooter
shall file an application with the clerk upon such form as may be provided by
said village, setting forth the name and address of the applicant, an
identification and description of the cycle or scooter for which the license is
desired, and the place where the same is to be kept when not in use, and such
other information as may be prescribed; and upon payment by such applicant of
the license fee to the clerk, a license and registration tag shall be issued
and attested by said clerk, authorizing the use of such cycle or scooter within
the village until the expiration of such license by an individual with valid
driver's license.
   (E)   Citation; Impoundment: A peace officer who cites a person for a
violation of this section may impound any motor driven or electric power cycle
used by the person in the commission of the offense. The person or owner may
recover the motor driven or electric cycle from the impound after a minimum of
twenty four (24) hours after citation upon payment of a fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). This one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee includes the costs
incurred by the village to remove the motor driven or electric powered cycle or
scooter to the impound. Upon the presentation of a signed court order from the
person whose motor driven or electric powered cycle or scooter was impounded
showing that the person has been acquitted of the offense, the village shall
refund the one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee to the person or owner who paid
such fee.
   (F)   Exemptions:
      1.   Any police vehicle, fire vehicle, or village vehicle driven by an
employee in the course of employment with the village shall be permitted to use
any public or private street, parking lot, sidewalk, bike path or public park
when it is necessary in the performance of work related duties.
      2.   Motorized wheelchairs and any other motor driven or electric cycle
that is specifically subject to article 11 of the Illinois motor vehicle code.
(Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-18: VENDORS AND RETAILERS OF MOTOR DRIVEN OR ELECTRIC CYCLES AND SCOOTERS:
Any individual or business who sells or otherwise transfers ownership of any
"motor driven or electric cycles and scooters", as defined herein, within the
municipal boundaries shall post a copy of this chapter in a conspicuous place
within the business premises, and shall provide a copy of this chapter to any
purchaser or other transferee at the time of transfer. (Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003)
9-17-19: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2003-06, 8-7-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 3-4-2024)
CHAPTER 18
FENCES
SECTION:
9-18-1: Definitions
9-18-2: Permit, Survey, And Plans Required
9-18-3: Construction Regulations
9-18-4: Barbed Wire Fence a Nuisance
9-18-5: Violation
9-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings,
respectively ascribed to them:
FENCE: A structure erected along or within three feet (3') from the boundary of
any lot and forming a barrier or division between lots, a lot and a street or a
lot and an alley.
SOLID FENCE: A fence so constructed that less than thirty percent (30%) of the
area thereof consists of uniformly distributed apertures.
COMBUSTIBLE FENCE: Any fence not constructed of entirely non-combustible
material.
GRADE: Shall mean the average ground level at any point along the boundary of a
lot.
9-18-2: PERMIT, SURVEY, AND PLANS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to erect or construct any fence more than four and one-
half feet (41/2') in height within the Village without first obtaining a permit
from the Building Commissioner and in support of an application for a fence
permit, the applicant shall provide a current survey of the property on which
the fence is to be installed and if the survey is more than six (6) months old,
an affidavit of no improvements attesting that the survey provide correctly
reflects the conditions of the property at the time of application; and the
plans of the fence to be constructed and installed shall provide that all holes
of all fence posts shall be at least forty-two inches (42") in depth. (Ord.
2025-08, 3-17-2025)
9-18-3: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
Fences constructed or maintained in the Village shall comply with the following
regulations: (Ch. LXI, Rev. Ord. 1939)
   (A)   General.
      1.   Solid fences are not permitted in commercial and industrial zones.
      2.   Barbed wire is not permitted except on "Special Permit". (Ord. 1974-
3, 4-18-74)
   (B)   Wind Load. Fences shall be designed and constructed to resist a
horizontal wind pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot in
addition to all other forces to which they may be subject.
   (C)   Height Limitations.
      1.   Fences constructed in "A" Residence District or "A-2" Multiple
Family District shall not exceed the following heights: (Ch. LXI, Rev. Ord.
1939)
         (a) Between lots six feet (6') above grade (except [b]). (Ord. 1974-3,
4-18-74)
         (b) Between front or side building line adjacent to building and
street three and one-half feet (31/2') above grade.
         (c) Between lot and alley or street (except [b]) six feet (6') above
grade.
         (d) Between lot and adjoining Commercial or Industrial Districts,
height allowable in such adjoining districts.
      2.   Fences constructed in "B" Commercial Districts shall not exceed
following heights:
         (a) Combustible fence, six feet (6') above grade.
         (b) Non-combustible fence, ten feet (10') above grade.
      3.   Fences constructed in "C" Industrial Districts shall not exceed the
following heights:
         (a) Combustible fence, not permitted in this district.
         (b) Non-combustible fence, twelve feet (12') above grade.
   (D)   Fence Post Depth. All posts for all fences shall be installed in holes
having a depth of forty-two inches (42") or more.
   (E)   Fence on Fence Regulations. Fence on fence installations between
adjacent and neighboring properties are prohibited unless an applicant
proposing to install a fence less than three feet (3') to an adjacent existing
fence includes a proposed maintenance plan for any space under and between the
existing fence and proposed fence which is approved by the building
commissioner or his or her designee. The maintenance plan shall include a
drainage plan so that surface precipitation does not to drain onto or into the
adjacent property in any manner. (Ord. 2025-08, 3-17-2025)
9-18-4: BARBED WIRE FENCE A NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect or construct any barbed
wire fence, line or lines, or string barbed wire in any manner along or
adjacent to any street or streets within the Village, and any barbed wire fence
or line erected or strung or constructed as aforesaid, shall be deemed and is
hereby declared a nuisance.
Whenever the owner of any barbed wire fence or fences or line or lines of
barbed wire not built along any street or streets as aforesaid, shall refuse or
neglect to remove the same, or cause the same to be removed within the time
required as specified in Section
9-18-5, the barbed wire so erected, or constructed or strung as aforesaid,
shall be deemed and is hereby declared a nuisance.
9-18-5: REMOVAL:
The owner of any property along or around which any barbed wire fence or
fences, line or lines now erected, built, constructed or strung along or
adjacent to any street or streets in the said Village are hereby ordered and
directed to remove the same within fifteen (15) days. (Ch. LXI, Rev. Ord. 1939)
9-18-5.1: SPECIAL PERMIT:
Upon application of the owner of any property, barbed wire may be permitted to
be used in conjunction with a lawful fence, subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   Barbed wire is not permitted in or adjacent to a residential zone.
   (B)   Any barbed wire used must be at least seven feet (7') above ground
level.
   (C)   The applicant must show special hardship requiring the use of barbed
wire.
   (D)   Applicant must indemnify Village against any claim or loss resulting
from the permission granted. (Ord. 1974-3, 4-18-74)
9-18-6: VIOLATION:
It shall be unlawful to erect, construct or maintain any fence within this
Village in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 1965-17,
7-1-65)
CHAPTER 19
PARADES AND OPEN-AIR MEETINGS
SECTION:
9-19-1: Definition
9-19-2: Parade and Open-Air Meeting Permits
9-19-3: Powers and Duties of Clerk
9-19-1: DEFINITION:
Parade Defined: For purposes of this Code "parade" or "open-air meeting" shall
mean any gathering or ostentatious display or show; a marshalling of a group of
people of three (3) or more in an order so as to make a display or exhibit for
any purpose whatsoever; a calling together of people for purposes of making a
display and/or show of feelings in relation to a certain subject.
9-19-2: PARADE AND OPEN-AIR MEETING PERMITS:
No parade shall be allowed on any public way, nor shall any open-air public
meeting be held in or upon any public way or upon any ground abutting upon any
public way, until a permit in writing therefor shall first be obtained from the
Clerk.
Application to conduct such parade or procession or open-air meeting shall be
made in writing to the Clerk on such form as the said Clerk may prescribe, at
least thirty (30) days prior to the event, by the person or persons in charge
or control thereof, or responsible therefor, and such application shall set
forth the desired route along which such parade or procession is to proceed,
the desired time of starting, the duration, and the name of the person, society
or organization in control thereof, or responsible therefor, and the purpose of
such parade or procession; and, in case of an open-air meeting such application
shall specify the place at which it is desired to hold such meeting, the
purpose thereof, and the name of the person or society in control thereof, or
responsible therefor, the time at which such meeting is to be held and the
probable duration thereof. Upon such application being made the Chief of
Police, when necessary or requested, shall investigate or cause to be
investigated the person, society or organization making such application and
the truth of the statements made in such application regarding the purpose or
object of such parade, procession or open-air meeting.
There is hereby created a Parade Board consisting of not more than two (2)
representatives from each of the following agencies: (a) Police Commission; (b)
Commission of Streets and Alleys; (c) Fire Commission; (d) Corporation Counsel;
and (e) Village Clerk; such representatives to be appointed by the heads of the
named agencies, subject to removal at any time by the agency head. Said Parade
Board is to meet periodically as needed, consider all applications for permits
for parades or processions to be held on any public way and application for
permits for open-air public meetings to be held in or upon any public way or
upon any grounds abutting upon any public way, and to consider, suggest, and
recommend the approval, disapproval, or modification of said applications. The
findings of the Board are to be forwarded to the Clerk for final action. If he
shall be informed by the Chief of Police that such parade, procession, or open-
air meeting is not to be held for any unlawful purpose and will not in any
manner tend to be a breach of the peace, and he determines that such action
will not unnecessarily interfere with the public use of the public ways of the
City or the peace and quiet of the inhabitants thereof, he shall issue such
permit to the person, society, or organization, making application therefor.
9-19-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CLERK:
Upon the recommendation of the Parade Board and/or the Chief of Police, the
Clerk is hereby empowered to issue or deny said permit to set restrictions as
to the number of people authorized to engage in any parade and/or open-air
meeting, and to further restrict said applicants as to hours of such
assemblies, and such other restrictions as are deemed necessary or reasonable
in the premises. (Ord. 1966-22; 8-25-66)
CHAPTER 20
INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-20-1: Definitions
9-20-2: Abandonment of Vehicles
9-20-3: Leaving of Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicles on Street
9-20-4: Inoperable Vehicles Declared to be a Nuisance
9-20-5: Disposal of Inoperable Vehicles on Notice
9-20-6: Impounding
9-20-7: Penalty
9-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this Chapter:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is left at any place for such time and
under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have
been abandoned. (Ord. 1968-9, 5-23-68, eff. 6-3-68)
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged, or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power. "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle
which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own
power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations nor to any
motor vehicles that are kept within a building when not in use, to historic
vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the
premises of a place of business engaged in wrecking or junking of motor
vehicles. (Ord. 1968-1, 4-5-85, eff. 5-23-68; amd. Ord. 1984-1, 4-5-84, eff. 4-
16-84)
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the City which is not a street or highway.
STREET or HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
9-20-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the City and no person shall leave
any vehicle at any place within the City for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
9-20-3: LEAVING OF WRECKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLES ON STREET:
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, or
junked vehicle on any street or highway in the City. (Ord. 1968-9, 5-23-68,
eff. 6-3-68)
9-20-4: INOPERABLE VEHICLES DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE:
Inoperable motor vehicles, as defined herein, whether on public or private
property and in view of the general public are hereby declared to be a
nuisance. (Ord. 1984-1, 4-5-84, eff. 4-16-84)
9-20-5: DISPOSAL OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES ON NOTICE:
All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicles under
their control upon written notice received from the corporate authorities or
from the Chief of Police or any member of his department designated by him
commanding such disposition of said inoperable motor vehicle. (Ord. 1968-9, 5-
23-68, eff. 6-3-68)
9-20-6: IMPOUNDING:
The Chief of Police or any member of his department designated by him is hereby
authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the
City which reasonably appears to be in violation of this Chapter or which
reasonably appears to be lost, stolen or unclaimed, or which is an inoperable
vehicle as defined herein. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully
claimed or disposed of as provided by law. (Ord. 1968-9, 5-23-68, eff. 6-3-68;
amd. Ord. 1984-1, 4-5-84, eff. 4-16-84)
9-20-7: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1984-1, 4-5-
84, eff. 4-16-84)
CHAPTER 21
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
9-21-1: Definitions
9-21-2: Responsibility of Parents; Legal Guardians
9-21-3: Penalty
9-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Ordinance, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
specified have the meanings ascribed to them.
   (A)   "Legal guardian" means a person appointed guardian or given custody,
of a minor by a circuit court of the State, but does not include a person
appointed guardian or given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act.
   (B)   "Minor" means a person who is above the age of nine (9) years, but not
yet eighteen (18) years of age.
9-21-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS; LEGAL GUARDIANS:
The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and said
minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts described below with the
knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian, in violation of this
Ordinance upon the occurrence of the events in (A), (B) and (C) below:
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or Statute
prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
Statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by person service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
Police Department of the Village of River Grove following said adjudication or
nonjudicial sanction; and
   (C)   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in (B) above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of any
ordinance, law or Statute as described in (A) above or shall have incurred
nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency, resulting from an admission
of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or Statute as described in (A)
above.
9-21-3: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of this Ordinance shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1976-16, 8-12-76)
CHAPTER 22
RESIDENT PARKING ONLY
SECTION:
9-22-1: Resident Parking Only Between 2 a.m. And 6 a.m.
9-22-2: Resident Parking Only Permits/Decals - Village Vehicle Sticker
9-22-3: Visitors Permits
9-22-4: Areas Designated; Petitions
9-22-5: Exceptions
9-22-1: RESIDENT PARKING ONLY BETWEEN 2 A.M. AND 6 A.M.:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following resident parking only is hereby
established on all municipal streets, alleys, parking areas, and other
thoroughfares located within the corporate boundaries of the Village of River
Grove between the hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. each day of each week. The
establishment of the above identified resident parking only policy applies does
not modify the regulation of the parking of commercial or recreational vehicles
within the Village. All commercial and recreational vehicles must comply with
all applicable ordinances, including without limitation Sections
6-12-11 and
6-12-12 of this Code. (Ord. 2025-05, 3-17-2025)
9-22-2: RESIDENT PARKING ONLY PERMITS/DECALS - VILLAGE VEHICLE STICKER:
Residents and businesses of the Village of River Grove who purchase and
properly affix a valid Village vehicle license ("vehicle sticker") issued
pursuant to Chapter 17 of Title 9 of this Code to a vehicle shall be considered
a valid resident only parking permit for parking on such village street, alley,
or other public way between the hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. (Ord. 2025-05, 3-17-
2025)
9-22-3: VISITORS PERMITS:
It shall be the duty of the residents and businesses to inform visitors of the
rules governing resident parking only between the hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m.
Residents and businesses shall further register any guest or visitor needing to
park during resident parking only hours with the River Grove Police Department
by providing the department with the make, model, year and license plate number
of the vehicle of their guest or visitor and the date(s) on which the guest or
visitor will park during restricted times. No visitor or guest vehicle shall
parking during restricted times for more than three (3) consecutive days
without re-registering with the police department. (Ord. 2025-05, 3-17-2025)
9-22-4: AREAS DESIGNATED; PETITIONS:
Specific blocks within the Village may be designated for resident parking only
for times before or after the general prohibited hours between 2 a.m. and 6
a.m. upon written petition containing the signatures of not less than ninety
percent (90%) of the owners of the property who are also residents thereof, on
both sides of the street, within the block sought to be so restricted. (Ord.
2025-05, 3-17-2025)
9-22-5: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a vehicle of any public
agency or public utility, or any Village owned vehicle so long as the vehicle
is being used in the performance of emergency or official public duties. This
exception does not permit an employee of any public agency, public utility, or
the Village to otherwise park a publicly owned vehicle which the employee is
permitted to use and maintain outside the performance of emergency or official
public duties in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2025-05, 3-17-2025)
CHAPTER 23
HANDGUNS
SECTION:
9-23-1: Definitions
9-23-2: Handgun Dealer Prohibited
9-23-3: Penalties
9-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings,
unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended.
FIREARM: Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas or
escape of gas; excluding, however:
   (A)   Any pneumatic gun, spring gun or BB gun which expels a single globular
projectile not exceeding eighteen one-hundredths inches (.18") in diameter.
   (B)   Any device used exclusively for signalling or safety and required or
recommended by the United States Coast Guard or the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
   (C)   Any device used exclusively for the firing of stud cartridges,
explosive rivets or similar industrial ammunition.
   (D)   An antique firearm (other than a machine gun) which, although designed
as a weapon, the Department of Law Enforcement of the State finds by reason of
the date of its manufacture, value, design or other characteristics is
primarily a collector's item and not likely to be used as a weapon.
   (E)   Model rockets designed to propel a model in a vertical direction.
HANDGUN: Any firearm which:
   (A)   Is designed or redesigned or made or remade, and intended to be fired
while held in one hand; or
   (B)   Having a barrel of less than ten inches (10") in length; or
   (C)   Firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person.
HANDGUN DEALER: Any person engaged in the business of:
   (A)   Selling or renting handguns at wholesale or retail;
   (B)   Manufacture of handguns;
   (C)   Repairing handguns or making or fitting special barrels or trigger
mechanisms to handguns.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership,
club, society or joint stock company.
9-23-2: HANDGUN DEALER PROHIBITED:
No person shall engage in the business of handgun dealer in the Village and no
business license shall be granted to engage in such business.
9-23-3:PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each such offense. A conviction of
a violation of this Chapter by a holder of a business license issued by the
Village shall constitute grounds for revocation of such business license by the
President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 1988-5, 4-7-88)
CHAPTER 24
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CLEANUP
SECTION:
9-24-1: Definitions
9-24-2: Prohibited Acts
9-24-3: Response Authority
9-24-4: Liability For Costs
9-24-5: Defenses
9-24-6: Costs And Penalties
9-24-7: Severability And Enforcement
9-24-8: Nonexclusive Remedy
9-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
COSTS: All expenses incurred by the village or any of the public agencies
assisting the village, as a result of any removal or remedial action.
FACILITY: Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline,
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned
treatment works, well, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft; and
also any site or area where hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of, abandoned or otherwise come to be located.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, substance or mixture of materials or
substances which are toxic, flammable, corrosive, explosive, carcinogenic or
radioactive, including, but not limited to, any substance or material which is
designated as hazardous material, pursuant to the "hazardous material
transportation act" (49 USCA section 1801 et seq.) in a quantity and form which
may pose as substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property
or the environment when improperly released, treated, stored, transported,
disposed of or otherwise managed; any substance listed in the list of toxic
pollutants found in title 40 of the code of federal regulations; any substance
designated as a hazardous material by the applicable state law or the uniform
hazardous substance act of Illinois; any compressed gas, explosive, flammable
liquid, flammable solid, oxidizer, poison or radioactive material; any of the
following: explosives, pyrotechnics, flammable gas, flammable compressed gas,
nonflammable compressed gas, flammable liquid, oxidizing material, any
flammable material, poisonous gas, poisonous liquid, irritating material,
material that causes diseases in humans, gas under such pressure that an
explosion hazard exists, radioactive material, corrosive material or liquefied
petroleum gas.
MUTUAL AID: Any action taken by the village or any other public agency,
pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, including, but not limited to, any
agreement that is part of the mutual aid box alarm system or automatic aid
agreement to which the village is a party.
PERSON: Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
trust, estate, joint venture, or other legal entity, or their legal
representative and each of their assigns.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous material
into or on any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that such
hazardous material or any constituent thereof may enter the environment.
REMEDIAL ACTION: Any action consistent with the permanent remedy taken instead
of, or in addition to, removal actions in the event of a release or threatened
release of a hazardous material into the environment, to prevent or minimize
the releases of hazardous materials so that they do not migrate to cause a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, such actions at the
location of the release as storage, isolation, confinement, perimeter
protection using dikes, trenches, or ditches, clay cover, neutralization,
cleanup of released diversion, destruction, segregation of reactive wastes,
repair or replacement of leaking containers, collection of leachate and runoff,
on site treatment or incineration, provision of alternate water supplies and
any monitoring reasonably required to ensure that such actions protect the
public health and welfare and the environment.
REMOVAL: The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment, such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threat of release of hazardous materials, the
disposal of removed material or the taking of such action as may be necessary
to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to the public health or welfare of the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, security, fencing, and
provision of alternative water supplies and temporary evacuation of threatened
individuals.
RESPONSE: Any removal or remedial action. (Ord. 2002-16, 12-5-2002)
9-24-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous materials
into the environment unless such release is in accordance with an appropriate
permit granted by the Illinois environmental protection agency or other state
or federal agency having primary jurisdiction over the release and such release
is in such place and manner as will not create a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health, property or the environment. (Ord. 2002-16,
12-5-2002)
9-24-3: RESPONSE AUTHORITY:
   (A)   The director of emergency services of the village or his or her
authorized representative shall have authority to respond to any release or
threatened release of hazardous materials within the territory of the village
or affecting the public water supply, wells or sewer system located in or
servicing the village or pursuant to any lawful intergovernmental agreement of
which the village is a party. This authority includes, but is not limited to,
remedial action and removal.
   (B)   The director of emergency services, director of public works and/or
water superintendent shall each have authority to respond to any release or
threatened release of hazardous materials as described above. The director of
emergency services shall have primary responsibility to respond to all
releases, except those within the sanitary sewer system of the village. The
director of public works shall have authority for those discharges into the
sanitary or storm sewer systems of the village. Any director or superintendent
shall report any release or threat of release of hazardous material to all
appropriate federal, state and local public health, safety and emergency
agencies within twenty four (24) hours of any substantial release of hazardous
materials. The directors of emergency services and/or public works shall
relinquish their response authority at such time, if any, as the federal, state
or local public health, safety or emergency agency having primary jurisdiction
over the release or threatened release has assumed responsibility for response
to the release or threatened release.
   (C)   The director of emergency services, during such time as response
authority is vested in him or her, shall be authorized to utilize all fire
department personnel and equipment and may, in the director's sole discretion,
take such remedial or removal action as the director may deem necessary or
appropriate to respond to the release or threatened release of hazardous
material.
   (D)   All responding personnel shall cooperate with and operate under the
direction of the director of emergency services or other person then exercising
response authority under this chapter until such time as the person exercising
such response authority has determined that the response is complete or
responsibility for responders is assumed by the federal, state or local public
health, safety or emergency agency having primary jurisdiction over the release
or threatened release.
   (E)   The person exercising response authority under this chapter shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state or local public health,
safety or emergency agencies involved in response to the release or threatened
release of hazardous materials.
   (F)   In the event that any person undertakes, either voluntarily or upon
order of the director of emergency services or such other village official, to
clean up or abate the effects of any hazardous substance or material unlawfully
released, discarded or deposited upon or onto any property or facility within
the village, the director or official may take such action as is necessary to
supervise or verify the adequacy of the cleanup or abatement. The persons
described in section
9-24-4 of this chapter shall be liable to the village for all costs incurred as
a result of such supervision or verification. (Ord. 2002-16, 12-5-2002)
9-24-4: LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and subject only to the
defenses set forth in section
9-24-5 of this chapter, the following persons shall be jointly and severally
liable for all costs of removal and remedial action incurred by the village, as
a result of a release or threatened release of a hazardous material:
   (A)   Any person whose negligent or wilful act or omission proximately
caused such release, discharge or deposit.
   (B)   Any person or persons who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous substance or the material at the time of such release, discharge or
deposit, without regard to fault or proximate cause.
   (C)   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material, owned or operated the facility or vessel
used for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any such hazardous material.
   (D)   Any person who by contract, agreement or otherwise has arranged with
another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of such hazardous materials.
   (E)   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities from which there is a
release or a substantial threat of release of such hazardous substances. (Ord.
2002-16, 12-5-2002)
9-24-5: DEFENSES:
There shall be no liability under section
9-24-4 of this chapter for a person otherwise liable who can establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the release or substantial threat of release
of a hazardous material and the resulting damages occurred in accordance with
any of the permitted defenses enumerated in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
22.2, except for the exception listed in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 22.2(G)
(i)(c). (Ord. 2002-16, 12-5-2002)
9-24-6: COSTS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who is liable for the release or threatened release of a
hazardous material who fails without sufficient cause to pay for or provide
removal or remedial action upon or in accordance with a notice and request of
the village, or in accordance with any order of any court having jurisdiction
on the matter, shall be liable to the village for any costs incurred by the
village as a result of such failure to provide or take such removal or remedial
action, together with the cost of any removal or remedial action taken by the
village in accordance with this chapter, plus reasonable attorney fees and
related court costs incurred in connection therewith.
   (B)   In addition, any such person found in violation of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each day on which a violation occurs or continues to occur.
   (C)   Charges for removal or remedial action when rendered by the village or
any other agency rendering mutual aid shall be as follows:
      1.   The reasonable cost of each vehicle responding as determined by the
responding agency, but in no case less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
hour per vehicle; plus
      2.   The cost of all personnel, including any overtime, benefits, and
administrative overhead cost to the village or to any responding agency
incurred as a result of the removal or remedial action, or the cost of any
contract labor and materials; plus
      3.   The cost of all materials and equipment used, expended, depleted,
destroyed or removed from service in accordance with federal, state or local
law, regulation or ordinance, as a result of the mitigation or containment
operations if or at the request of the village or any responding agency. (Ord.
2002-16, 12-5-2002)
9-24-7: SEVERABILITY AND ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any provision of this chapter
or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter
which can be given effect without the invalid provisions or applications. (Ord.
2002-16, 12-5-2002)
9-24-8: NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY:
The remedies provided by this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies or penalties provided by law. (Ord. 2002-16, 12-5-2002)
CHAPTER 25
STUDENT TRUANCY
SECTION:
9-25-1: Student Truancy Prohibited
9-25-2: Enforcement
9-25-3: Parental Responsibility And Fines
9-25-4: Student Fines
9-25-1: STUDENT TRUANCY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person over the age of seven (7) years and under
the age of seventeen (17) years, or for any person registered in any of grades
1 through 12 and who is enrolled in any public, private or parochial school, to
be present in any public place, building, street, or assembly in the village of
River Grove, other than school, while school is in session during the regular
school term, unless he or she is:
   (A)   Traveling to or from school by the most direct route;
   (B)   Accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or school official;
   (C)   Engaged in approved school related activities;
   (D)   Engaged in lawful employment, provided that the school board of the
public school district in which the child resides has recommended the
employment and has certified the facts concerning such employment;
   (E)   Physically or mentally unable to attend school and such disability has
been certified in accordance with section 5/26-1(2) of the Illinois school code
1 ; or
   (F)   Otherwise absent from school for valid cause. "Valid cause" shall be
defined as illness, observance of a religious holiday, death in the immediate
family, family emergency, such other situation beyond the control of the
student as determined by the board of education, or such other circumstances
which cause reasonable concern to the parent or legal guardian for the safety
or health of the student. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-16-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 105 ILCS 5/26-1.
9-25-2: ENFORCEMENT:
Any police officer who witnesses a person whom the officer reasonably believes
to be in violation of this chapter may stop and detain the person for the
purpose of verifying the person's identity, age, school enrollment and
authority to be absent from school. The police officer shall immediately inform
the person of the reason for the detention and that he or she will be released
upon verification of authorization to be absent from school. Other than to
transport the student to school or to his or her parent or legal guardian, the
person shall not be removed from the scene of the investigatory stop unless he
or she refuses to provide the officer with the necessary information. If the
officer determines that the person is in violation of this chapter, the officer
shall, if practical, transport the offender to school authorities or to the
child's parent or legal guardian. In addition to any citation that may be
issued to the student, the officer also shall notify the parent or legal
guardian in writing of the offense. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-16-2006)
9-25-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY AND FINES:
Any parent or legal guardian or other person having custody or control of a
student subject to the provisions of this chapter and who knowingly or wilfully
permits such child to violate the provisions of this chapter or any parent or
legal guardian having custody or control of a student who fails to take
reasonable steps to ensure compliance by the student with this chapter shall be
fined in an amount not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a first offense; not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for a second offense; and not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third or subsequent
offense within a school year. A rebuttable presumption shall exist that a
parent or legal guardian or other person having custody or control of a student
has failed to take reasonable steps to ensure compliance with this chapter,
upon such student committing a third or subsequent violation within the school
year, following the parent or legal guardian or such other person having
received two (2) written notices of a violation of this section. The foregoing
presumption may be overcome by clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
(Ord. 2006-01, 2-16-2006)
9-25-4: STUDENT FINES:
Any person found guilty of violating this chapter shall be fined in an amount
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 2006-01, 2-16-2006)
CHAPTER 26
FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-26-1: Definitions
9-26-2: General Requirements
9-26-3: Pyrotechnic Display Permit Requirements
9-26-4: 1.3G Fireworks Professional Display Compliance Standards
9-26-5: Prohibition Of Indoor Special Effects Fireworks And Flame Effect
Professional Displays
9-26-6: Possession Of License By Lead Pyrotechnic Operator
9-26-7: Approval Of Records
9-26-8: Record Of Permits Issued
9-26-9: Report Of Fire, Injury, Or Property Damage
9-26-10: Report Of Theft Or Loss Of Fireworks
9-26-11: Local Authority
9-26-12: Violations And Fines
9-26-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ACT: The fireworks use act, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 35.
APPLICANT: The individual that is applying for a pyrotechnic display permit.
ASSISTANT: An on site individual who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and
who, under the supervision of the lead operator, assists with the safety, setup
and discharge of a pyrotechnic display.
CERTIFICATE OF TRAINING: The consumer operator has successfully completed
training on the safe handling of consumer fireworks from a training program
approved by the office of the state fire marshal.
CONSUMER DISTRIBUTOR 1 : Any person who distributes, offers for sale, sells, or
exchanges for consideration consumer fireworks in Illinois to another
distributor or directly to any retailer or person for resale.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. consumer products
safety commission, as set forth in 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and classified
as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States department of transportation
under 49 CFR 172.101. "Consumer fireworks" shall not include snake or glowworm
pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby
traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads", and "auto burglar
alarms"; handheld wire sparklers; showers of sparks; toy pistols, toy canes,
toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing twenty
five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of explosive compound are used, provided
they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when
in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps that contain
less than twenty hundredths (0.20) grain of explosive mixture; the sale and use
of which shall be permitted at all times. The United States department of
transportation assigns the following division numbers to the above referenced
fireworks identification numbers: UN0336 (1.4G), and UN0337 (1.4S).
CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY OR CONSUMER DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or
deflagration of consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible effect.
CONSUMER OPERATOR: An adult individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup, and discharge of the consumer fireworks display and who has completed
the training required in section 2.2 of the act.
CONSUMER RETAILER: Any person who offers for sale, sells, or exchanges for
consideration consumer fireworks in Illinois directly to any person with a
consumer display permit.
DISPLAY FIREWORKS: Any substance or article defined as a division 1.3G
explosive or special effects fireworks or as further defined in the pyrotechnic
distributor and operator licensing act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/30.
FLAME EFFECT: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of flammable gases,
liquids, or special materials to produce a thermal, physical, visual, or
audible effect before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of whether
admission is charged, in accordance with National Fire Protection Association
160 guidelines, and as may be further defined in the pyrotechnic distributor
and operator licensing act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/30.
LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: An individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup, and discharge of the pyrotechnic display, who is responsible for the
supervision of personnel, and who is licensed pursuant to the pyrotechnic
distributor and operator licensing act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/30.
LICENSE: The license issued by the office pursuant to the pyrotechnic
distributor and operating licensing rules, 41 Illinois administrative code 230.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY: The village of River Grove, Cook County,
Illinois.
NFPA: The National Fire Protection Association, a nationally recognized
standards making organization, located at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA
02169-7471.
OFFICE: The office of the state fire marshal of the state of Illinois.
OFFICER: If the business is a sole proprietorship, the owner of the business or
any person exercising managerial control; or if the business is a partnership,
any partner who has at least ten percent (10%) ownership interest or any
partner who exercises managerial control; or if the business is a corporation,
any officer or director of the corporation or any person who has at least ten
percent (10%) ownership interest in such corporation or who exercises
managerial control.
1.3G FIREWORKS: Those fireworks used for professional outdoor displays and
classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the United States
department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101. The United States department
of transportation assigns the following division numbers to the above
referenced fireworks identification numbers: UN0333 (1.1G), UN0334 (1.2G), and
UN0335 (1.3G).
PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, company,
consortium, joint venture, or commercial entity.
PROSCENIUM CURTAIN: The curtain, covering the opening of the stage, which is
constructed and mounted in a manner which intercepts hot gases, flames and
smoke and which prevents flame from a fire on the stage from becoming visible
from the auditorium side.
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of display
fireworks or flame effects to produce visual or audible effects of an
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged, and as may be further defined in the pyrotechnic
distributor and operator licensing act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/30.
PYROTECHNIC DISTRIBUTOR AND OPERATOR LICENSING RULES: 41 Illinois
administrative code 230, promulgated pursuant to the pyrotechnic distributor
and operator licensing act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/30.
PYROTECHNIC DISTRIBUTOR OR DISTRIBUTOR: Any person, company, association, group
of persons, or corporation who distributes display fireworks for sale in the
state of Illinois or provides them as part of a pyrotechnic display service in
the state of Illinois or provides only pyrotechnic display services.
SPECIAL EFFECTS FIREWORKS: Pyrotechnic devices used for special effects by
professionals in the performing arts in conjunction with theatrical, musical,
or other productions that are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical
compositions and construction, but are not intended for consumer use and are
not labeled as such and must be identified as "intended for indoor use".
"Special effects fireworks" are classified as fireworks UN0431 or UN0432 by the
United States department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101. The United
States department of transportation assigns the following division numbers to
the above referenced pyrotechnic article identification numbers: UN0431 (1.4G),
and UN0432 (1.4S). (Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 35/1.
9-26-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Consumer fireworks displays shall not be permitted within the village.
All pyrotechnic displays require a permit issued by the village in accordance
with the act, the regulations of the office of the Illinois state fire marshal,
and this chapter.
   (B)   All pyrotechnic displays require the services of a licensed
pyrotechnic distributor and a licensed lead pyrotechnic operator in accordance
with the act, the regulations of the office of the Illinois state fire marshal,
and this chapter.
   (C)   A licensed lead pyrotechnic operator shall be present at all times
during any pyrotechnic display and shall personally supervise all assistants,
including all phases of the pyrotechnic display.
   (D)   The fire chief of the village or his/her designee must inspect and
approve the display site for all pyrotechnic displays to ensure that the site
is safe to conduct a display. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
9-26-3: PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Minimum Requirements: The village may issue a pyrotechnic display
permit to any adult applicant that meets the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Proof Of License: The village shall verify that the pyrotechnic
display services are provided by a licensed pyrotechnic distributor and that
the individual responsible for the setup and firing of the display is a
licensed lead pyrotechnic operator.
      2.   Proof Of Insurance 1 : The village shall be provided with proof of
liability insurance in a sum not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
Such insurance shall be carried with an insurer authorized to do business in
Illinois and insure the applicant against liabilities, judgments, costs,
damages, and expenses that may accrue against, be charged to or be recovered
from the applicant on the reason of damage to property or injury to or death of
any person arising from the pyrotechnic display or flame effect display. Such
insurance coverage shall be an occurrence based policy, and it shall cover all
periods of time when pyrotechnic materials, including flame effect materials,
are in the insured's actual or constructive possession, including those times
when the materials are being stored, transported, handled, used, discharged and
displayed. The village shall be named as an additional insured party in the
certificate of insurance provided to the village.
      3.   Fire Chief Approval: The fire chief of the village or his/her
designee shall inspect the site and determine that the display can be performed
in full compliance with sections 235.50 and 235.60 of the regulations of the
state fire marshal.
      4.   Application: An application for such permits shall be made to the
fire chief and shall specify the location, date(s), and time(s) of the display,
and such other information requested within the application.
   (B)   Time Frame To Apply: The applicant must submit a written application
for a permit at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the
pyrotechnic display, unless agreed to otherwise by the president and the fire
chief of the village.
   (C)   Limited Permit Exception: No permit shall be required for supervised
public displays by state or county fair associations.
   (D)   Age Of Assistants: The village shall be provided with proof that all
assistants will be at least eighteen (18) years of age through production of
certified copies of any assistant's current and valid state driver's license or
state issued identification card, or birth certificate.
   (E)   Identification And Signatures Required On The Permit: Each pyrotechnic
display permit shall identify the lead pyrotechnic operator and contain the
signature of the president and the fire chief of the village.
   (F)   Nontransferable Permit: No permit granted hereunder shall be
transferable. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 425 ILCS 35/2.1.
9-26-4: 1.3G FIREWORKS PROFESSIONAL DISPLAY COMPLIANCE STANDARDS:
All 1.3G fireworks displays and storage shall be conducted in accordance with
NFPA 1123 (2000), code for fireworks display. Storage of display fireworks
(1.3G and above) shall comply with the storage requirements set forth by the
federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives at 27 CFR 555.1 et
seq., or by the Illinois department of natural resources pursuant to article 3
of the Illinois explosive act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 210. If there is
a conflict between the requirements established by the bureau of alcohol,
tobacco, firearms and explosives and by the Illinois department of natural
resources, those requirements that are more specific, more stringent, or impose
requirements for which no like requirements are contained in the other agency's
requirements shall control. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
9-26-5: PROHIBITION OF INDOOR SPECIAL EFFECTS FIREWORKS AND FLAME EFFECT
PROFESSIONAL DISPLAYS:
All indoor special effects and/or flame effect displays and storage are
prohibited under this chapter. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
9-26-6: POSSESSION OF LICENSE BY LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR:
The lead pyrotechnic operator must be in possession of and be able to produce
his/her license (41 Illinois administrative code 230) upon request at all times
during the delivery, setup, and the performance of the display. (Ord. 2006-12,
6-15-2006)
9-26-7: APPROVAL OF RECORDS:
All applications, permits, and site inspection records shall be on forms
approved by the office. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
9-26-8: RECORD OF PERMITS ISSUED:
The village shall maintain a copy of each display permit issued for a minimum
of four (4) years from the date of the display. Any reports of fire, injury,
property damage, theft or loss of fireworks that are submitted to the local
governmental authority shall be maintained with the copy of the display permit.
(Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
9-26-9: REPORT OF FIRE, INJURY, OR PROPERTY DAMAGE:
   (A)   Permit holders shall notify the village within twenty four (24) hours
after the occurrence of any of the following incidents:
      1.   A fire;
      2.   An injury to any person resulting from the display; or
      3.   Damage to property in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00), in
the aggregate, resulting from the display.
   (B)   The village shall notify the office of any fire, injury to any person,
or damage to property in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) that resulted
from the pyrotechnic display. This notification shall be made by telephone or
in writing within three (3) days after learning of the incident. (Ord. 2006-12,
6-15-2006)
9-26-10: REPORT OF THEFT OR LOSS OF FIREWORKS:
   (A)   Licensed pyrotechnic distributors and licensed lead pyrotechnic
operators shall report the theft or loss of fireworks to local law enforcement
in accordance with section 230.180 of the pyrotechnic distributor and operator
licensing rules (41 Illinois administrative code 230.180), IDNR and BATFE.
   (B)   Consumer distributors and consumer retailers shall report the theft or
loss of fireworks in excess of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to local law
enforcement immediately. Within twenty four (24) hours after discovery of the
theft or loss, consumer distributors and consumer retailers shall provide the
village and the office with written notice that includes a complete description
of the fireworks, including manufacturer, brand name, any manufacturer marking
and quantity, and a description of the circumstances surrounding the theft or
loss. The written notice shall also identify the local law enforcement agencies
contacted and shall be executed under penalties of perjury.
   (C)   Consumer operators shall immediately report the theft or loss of
fireworks in excess of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to local law
enforcement regardless of the prohibition of consumer displays within the
village and the failure to possess a consumer display permit. Within three (3)
days of notification, the village shall notify the office in writing of the
theft or loss. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
9-26-11: LOCAL AUTHORITY:
The village reserves the right to refuse to issue a permit for any reason.
(Ord. 2006-12, 6-15-2006)
9-26-12: VIOLATIONS AND FINES:
In addition to the sanctions provided by Illinois law, any person or entity in
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day a violation is
determined to exist. The president or fire chief may also revoke the permit of
any individual or entity found to be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-
12, 6-15-2006)
CHAPTER 27
SMOKING
ARTICLE A. TRITON COLLEGE
SECTION:
9-27A-1: Title
9-27A-2: Definitions
9-27A-3: Smoke Free Campus Policy
9-27A-4: Processes, Policies, Procedures And Enforcement Guidelines
9-27A-5: Violations And Fines
9-27A-6: Discrimination Prohibited
9-27A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the TRITON COLLEGE SMOKE FREE CAMPUS ORDINANCE
and is hereby adopted and shall read as follows. (Ord. 2015-10, 8-6-2015)
9-27A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
CAMPUS PROPERTY: Any property owned, leased, occupied, operated or otherwise
controlled by Triton College, including, but not limited to, academic and
auxiliary buildings, classrooms, laboratories, residences, elevators,
stairwells, restrooms, roofs, meeting rooms, hallways, lobbies and other common
areas, conference facilities, athletic complexes and facilities, exterior open
spaces, shuttle buses, shuttle bus stops, college owned parking lots,
driveways, loading docks, college owned streets, sidewalks and walkways.
SMOKING:
   (A)   Lighting, burning, inhaling or exhaling any type of matter or
substance that contains tobacco, including, but not limited to, cigarettes,
cigars, cigarillos, pipes, beedies, kreteks, water pipes, bongs, and hookahs;
   (B)   Lighting or burning of nontobacco plants or marijuana; or
   (C)   Using electronic cigarettes.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: All forms of tobacco, including, but not limited to,
cigarettes, cigars, cigarillos, pipes, beedies, kreteks, water pipes, bongs,
and hookahs, electronic cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco
and any non-FDA approved nicotine delivery device or product. (Ord. 2015-10, 8-
6-2015)
9-27A-3: SMOKE FREE CAMPUS POLICY:
Effective September 1, 2015, and thereafter, smoking and use of tobacco
products is prohibited on all campus property at Triton College, both indoors
and outdoors, in college owned vehicles and in privately owned vehicles parked
on or traveling through campus property. The sale, advertising, or free
sampling of tobacco products is also prohibited on campus property of Triton
College. Littering the remains of tobacco products or any other related waste
product on campus property of Triton College is further prohibited. (Ord. 2015-
10, 8-6-2015)
9-27A-4: PROCESSES, POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND ENFORCEMENT GUIDELINES:
The following processes, policies, procedures and guidelines shall govern the
administration and enforcement of this article:
   (A)   The campus shall post notices bearing the message "Tobacco- Free
Campus" or the international "No Tobacco" symbol or similar signage at critical
areas across the campus, such as at building entrances. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, this article applies to all campus property whether or not such
notices are posted.
   (B)   Organizers of and attendees at public events, such as conferences,
meetings, public lectures, social events, cultural events, and sporting events,
as well as nonuniversity events held on campus property must abide by this
article. Organizers of such events are responsible for informing attendees of
this article.
   (C)   An individual may inform someone smoking or using tobacco products on
campus property of this article and request that the smoker or tobacco user
comply with the article. Noncompliant individuals who are perceived as
threatening or violent may be referred to the Triton College police department
or River Grove police department. An individual or campus subject to the
tobacco prohibitions of this article may not discriminate or retaliate in any
manner against a person for making a complaint of a violation of this article
or furnishing information concerning a violation to a person, campus, or
governing authority.
   (D)   Individuals found to be noncompliant may be subject to existing campus
disciplinary measures, or the following enforcement measures:
      1.   For students, noncompliance may be referred to the office of the
dean of students.
      2.   For employees, noncompliance may be referred to the employee's
supervisor and the human resources department.
      3.   For contractors and subcontractors, noncompliance may be referred to
the campus unit responsible for monitoring performance of the applicable
contract.
      4.   Visitors and members of the public who refuse to comply with this
article may be asked to leave campus.
      5.   Any student, employee, contractor, subcontractor, visitor, or member
of the public also may be issued a citation in accordance with the following:
         (a) The provisions of this article may be enforced by the officers of
the River Grove police department or Triton College police department by
issuance of a citation and enforcement action before the administrative
adjudication department pursuant to title I, chapter 20 of this code.
         (b) The citations issued pursuant to this article shall conspicuously
include the following:
            (1)   The name of the offense and its code reference;
            (2)   The nature and elements of the violation;
            (3)   The date and location of the violation;
            (4)   The name of the enforcing agency;
            (5)   The name of the violator;
            (6)   The amount of the imposed fine and the location where the
violator can pay the fine without objection;
            (7)   The date, time and location at which the violator may appear
for a hearing before the administrative adjudication department to contest the
imposition of the fine imposed by the citation;
            (8)   The time period in which to pay the fine imposed by the
citation; and
            (9)   The verified signature of the person issuing the citation.
(c) One copy of the citation shall be provided to the violator, one copy shall
be retained by the enforcing agency, and one copy shall be provided to the
administrative adjudication department hereby authorized to receive fines on
behalf of the village.
      6.   Any person may register and sign a complaint with the Triton College
police department or River Grove police department for a violation of this
article.
      7.   A violator may pay the fine without objection or contest the
citation in accordance with this article.
      8.   The citation shall notify the violator in writing of the time,
place, and location of the hearing at which the citation may be contested. The
hearing shall be conducted at the administrative adjudication department's
hearing facilities at 2621 Thatcher Avenue, River Grove, Illinois, and in
accordance with the administrative adjudication ordinance set forth in title I,
chapter 20 of this code.
      9.   Fines imposed under this article may be collected in accordance with
all methods otherwise available to the village and its administrative
adjudication department, except that there shall be no collection efforts
during the pendency of the hearing before the department. (Ord. 2015-10, 8-6-
2015)
9-27A-5: VIOLATIONS AND FINES:
A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity who violates
this article shall be fined pursuant to this section. Each incident that a
violation occurs is a separate violation:
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited under this
article shall be fined a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) through
issuance of a citation, with said fine being applicable to a first offense. In
the event that the issuing agency or adjudication department determines that
the violation is subsequent to a first violation, upon such finding and
conviction, the fine shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second
or subsequent offense but five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second violation
within one year after the first violation, and seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each additional violation within one year after the first
violation.
   (B)   A fine imposed under this section shall be allocated as follows:
      1.   Two-thirds (2/3) of the fine shall be distributed to the village;
and
      2.   One-third (1/3) of the fine shall be distributed to the enforcing
police department. (Ord. 2015-10, 8-6-2015)
9-27A-6: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
No individual may be discriminated against in any manner because of the
exercise of any rights afforded by this article. (Ord. 2015-10, 8-6-2015)
CHAPTER 28
KENNELS
SECTION:
9-28-1: Definition
9-28-2: License Required
9-28-3: Application; Investigation Of Premises
9-28-4: Fees
9-28-5: Nuisances From Operation Prohibited
9-28-6: General Requirements And Regulations
9-28-7: Penalties And Enforcement
9-28-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter, the term "kennel" is defined to mean any
establishment or premises wherein or whereon animals are kept for the purpose
of breeding, boarding, sale, exchange or for sporting purposes, or wherein pet
animals owned by another person or entity are temporarily boarded for pay or
remuneration of any sort. Kennel shall not apply to zoos or animal hospitals
operated by veterinarians duly licensed under the law where the boarding of
animals is accessory to medical treatment or rescue or temporary care and
custody. (Ord. 2018-09, 4-5-2018)
9-28-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of operating a kennel within the Village
without first having obtained a license therefor, as provided in this chapter
and the general licensing provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2018-09, 4-5-2018)
9-28-3: APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES:
Any person desiring to conduct, carry on, or operate a kennel as defined in
this chapter, shall make written application for a license, conforming to the
general requirements of this Code relating to applications for licenses. Such
application shall also state the number of animals the applicant proposes to
keep in the establishment or on the premises for which application for a
license is made, and also state the exact location of the establishment. Such
application shall be presented to the Office of the Village Clerk.
The Public Health Officer shall cause an investigation to be made of the
premises named and described in the application for the purpose of determining
the fitness and suitability of premises for such business from a sanitary
standpoint. (Ord. 2018-09, 4-5-2018)
9-28-4: FEES:
The annual license fee for each dog kennel shall be based on the number of dogs
which it is proposed to keep in the establishment or premises, and shall be as
follows:
 
1 to 9 animals   $200.00
10 to 15 animals 400.00
Over 15 animals  600.00
 
In computing the number of dogs, those under four (4) months of age shall not
be counted. (Ord. 2018-09, 4-5-2018)
9-28-5: NUISANCES FROM OPERATION PROHIBITED:
No person operating a kennel shall do so in such a way as to cause a nuisance
to be created, such as allowing the premises to become unsanitary, or allowing
the continued barking of dogs, and other noises that may disturb the quiet and
peace of the community. (Ord. 2018-09, 4-5-2018)
9-28-6: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Ventilation: All kennels shall be adequately ventilated and
ventilation facilities shall be maintained and operated so that all areas of
the kennel shall be kept reasonably free from excessive heat, smoke, fumes and
odors. Effective air recovery systems may be used in the ventilation of these
areas. All rooms, areas and equipment, from which contaminated aerosols,
obnoxious odors and the like, shall be effectively vented to the outside by
forced ventilation in such a manner, as not to create a nuisance.
   (B)   Use Of Drugs Restricted: All prescription drugs used at a kennel shall
be dispensed by those licensed to administer drugs. Drugs shall be kept locked
in approved storage receptacles and must meet all local and State regulations
governing their use.
   (C)   Requirements For Floors, Walls, Ceilings And Paved Areas: The floor
surfaces in kennels shall be of a smooth, nonabsorbent material, and so
constructed as to be easily cleanable. Wood, concrete and painted floors are
prohibited. All floors shall be kept clean and in good repair. Floor drains
shall be provided in all rooms where floors are subject to flooding type
cleaning or where normal operations release or discharge water or other liquid
waste on the floor. Strainers shall be used in all drains inside or outside the
premises to prevent clogging.
The walls and ceilings of all rooms shall be kept clean and in good repair. All
walls where animals are kept, shall have a finished surface that is easily
cleanable, smooth, light colored and washable. Painted concrete or cinder block
walls are prohibited.
All exterior driving or parking areas shall be kept clean and properly drained
so that water will not accumulate and such areas shall be surfaced with
concrete or asphalt.
   (D)   Treatment Of Animals By Licensed Veterinarian Required: The treatment
of animals in a kennel shall be under the supervision of a duly licensed
veterinarian of the State.
   (E)   Protection From Elements: Enclosures and runs shall provide protection
against weather extremes.
   (F)   Exercise Area: Kennels shall provide an exercise area of a size equal
to that required by the maximum number of animals that can be kept on premises
at one time.
   (G)   Quarters: All animal quarters and runs are to be kept in a clean, dry,
and sanitary condition.
   (H)   Fencing: Fencing surrounding exercise areas and/or runs shall be of a
sufficient height to discourage jumping and shall be buried (as part of
installation) to discourage digging beneath the fence posts.
   (I)   Parking: All kennels shall provide one code compliant parking spot per
one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area, plus one parking spot per
four (4) pet owners if animal training classes are taught on site (based on
maximum class size).
   (J)   Zoning Compliance: Kennels are prohibited on residential property with
the exception of an owner that holds a properly issued dog permit, as required
by this Code, and such permit is registered to the residential property where
dog grooming occurs. (Ord. 2018-09, 4-5-2018)
9-28-7: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Any person or entity found to have violated any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
day per violation to a maximum of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day
per violation, in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available
to the Village.
   (B)   A separate and distinct offense shall be committed each day on which
such person or persons or entity shall violate the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Village may enforce this chapter in its administrative
adjudication system or through the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois.
(Ord. 2018-09, 4-5-2018)
CHAPTER 29
SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS
SECTION:
9-29-1: Definitions
9-29-2: Products
9-29-3: Possession Unlawful
9-29-4: Use Unlawful
9-29-5: Sale Or Delivery Unlawful
9-29-6: Penalty
9-29-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
A PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory-created compound that functions similar
to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including,
but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound,
mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers, esters,
ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist,
such as:
   JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole)
   JWH-015 ((2-Methyl-l-propyl-1H-indo1-3 -y1)- 1-naphthalenylmethanone)
   JWH-018 (1-penty1-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole)
   JWH-019 (1-hexy1-3-(naphthalen-l-oyl) indole)
   JWH-073 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl) methanone)
   JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-I-y1-(1- pentylindo1-3-yl) methanone)
   JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-I-y1-(1-penty 1-2-methylindo1-3-yl) methanone)
   JWH-122 (1-Penty1-3-(4-methyl-I-naphthoyl) indole)
   JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-I-y1-(1-pentylindo1-3-y1) methanone
   JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethypindol-3-y1)-naphthalen-l-ylmethanone)
   JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1-pentylindol-3-y) thanone
   JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-I-yl-(I- pentylindol-3-yl) methanone
   JWH-250 (1-penty1-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetypindole)
   JWH-251 (1-penty1-3-(2-methylphenylacetypindole)
   JWH-398 (1-penty1-3-(4-chloro-l-naphthoypindole)
   HU-210((6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethy 1-3-(2-methyloctan-2-y1)-
6a, 7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-I-ol)
   HU-211 ((GaS, lOaS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-   dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)Ga, 7,10,lOa- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-I-ol)
   HU-308 ([(1R,2R,5R)-242,6-dimethoxy-4-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-pheny1]-7, 7-
dimethyl-4-bicyclo [3.1.1] hept-3-enyl] methanol)
   HU-331((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R,6R)-3-methyl-6-( 1-methylethenyl)-2-cyclohexen-1-
y1]-5-pentyl-2,5-c yclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
   CP 55,940 (2-[(1R,2R,5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxypropyl) cyclohexyl]-5-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl) phenol)
   CP 47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2yl) phenol) and
its homologues
   WIN 55,212-2 ((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo
[1,2,3-de)-1,4- benzoxazin-6-yl]-1- nepthalenylmethanone)
   RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl) (1-pentyl-1H-indol-3-yl) methanone)
   RCS-8( 1-( 1-( 2-cyclohexylethyl)-IH-indol-3-y1)-2-(2-methoxyphenypetha
none)
SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled Schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as:
   3-FIuoromethcathinone
   4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone)
   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC)
   3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV)
   4-Methylmethcathinon (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC)
   4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC)
   4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC)
   Ethcathinone
   Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone, bk-MBDB)
   Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1)
   N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone)
   Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP)
   4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP)
   3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
   Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP)
   6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1,3-dioxa1-6-amine) (other name: MDAI)
Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino- I -phenyl-1-propanone
by modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
   In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy,
haloalkyl, or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the
phenyl ring by one or more other univalent substituents;
   At the three (3)-position with an alkyl substituent;
   At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups;
or
   By inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/ HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of
any federally controlled Schedule I substance, including but not limited to,
any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters,
ethers and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-E);
   2-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-D);
   2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-C);
   2-(4-lodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-I);
   2-(4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-T-2);
   2-(4-(lsopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-T-4);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine (2C-H);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl) ethanamine (2C-N);
   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl) ethanamine (2C-P).
(Ord. 2024-11, 3-18-2024)
9-29-2: PRODUCTS:
The following products have been determined to contain synthetic cannabinoid,
synthetic stimulus or synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen:
POW                         Wicked X               XTREME Spice
Spice Gold                  K2 Summit              Stinger
Swagger Grape               Love Strawberry        Pulse
Spice Gold                  Shanti Spice Blueberry Mystery
Pulse                       Aztec Midnight Wind    Bad 2 the Bone
Black Mamba                 Tezcatlipoca           Dragon Spice
Naughty Nights              Sativah                Samurai Spirit
K2 Watermelon               Mid-Atlantic           Exemplar Buzz
Black Mamba                 (K2 Summit)            Midnight Chill
Green Monkey Chronic Salvia Aztec Gold             K Royal
Voodoo Remix                K2 Summit              Spicylicious
G Greenies Caramel Crunch   Ultra Cloud 10         Shanti Spice
Black Diamond               Colorado Chronic       K3 Grape
Blueberry Hayze             K3 Kryptonite          K3 Strawberry
Eruption Spice              Funky Monkey XXXX      K3 Blueberry
Love Strawberry             K2 Blue                Earthquake
Voodoo Child                K2 Blonde              Ocean Blue
Mid-Atlantic Exemplar       K2 Pink                G Four
K2 Summit                   K2 Citron K2           Wood Stock
Magic Dragon Platinum       Mellon K2              K3 Legal
Fire Bird Ultimate          Pineapple              Who Dat
Strength Cinnamon           K2 Standard            Dark Night II
Nitro                       K2 Summit              Spike 99 Ultra
Black Magic Salvia          Si. S Werve            2010
Black Mamba                 Chronic Spice          Zombie World
K2 Strawberry               K3 Mango               SYN Swagg
K2 Blueberry                K3 Original            SYN Smooth
SYN Spearmint               Magic Spice            SYN Incense Smooth
SYN Spearmint #2            Voodoo Magic           SYN Incense Spearmint
SYN Chill                   Texas Gold             SYN Incense Lemonlime
SYN Suave                   Demon                  Super Summit
Heavenscent Suave           K3                     D-Rail
SYN Vanilla                 K2 Pink Panties        K2 Peach
SYN Vanilla #2              Heaven Improved        Funky Monkey
SYN Lemon Lime              K3Sun                  K2 Summit Coffee Work
SYN Lemon Lime #2           K3 Dusk                K3 Legal - Original (Black)
New K3 Improved             K3 Original Improved   K3 Legal - Sun (Black)
C4 Herbal Incense           K2 Summit              K3 Legal - Sea (silver)
New Improved K3 Cosmic      New K3 Heaven          K3 Legal - Earth (silver)
New Improved K3 Dynamite    New K3 Earth           K2 Cloud 9
New Improved K3 Kryptonite  New K3 Sea Improved    Greenies Strawberry
Utopia                      New-Kron Bomb          K2 Blonde
Utopia-Blue Berry           Cherry Bomb            K2 Standard
Euphoria                    Rebel Spice            K2 Citron
Who Dat Herbal Incense      Mega Bomb              K2 (unknown variety)
Love Potion 69              Mr. Smiley's           K2 Summit Space
Legal Eagle                 SummerSkyy             K2 Blue
K2 Standard                 Moe Joe Fire           K2 Pink
Super Kush                  Fully Loaded           K2 Latte
Bayou Blaster               Da Block               K2 Mint
Paradise                    Back Draft             K2 Silver
Red Bird                    K1 Orbit               K2 Peach
K1 Gravity                  C3                     Spike Gold
Spike Maxx                  Banana Cream Nuke      Humboldt Gold
Spike Diamond               K4Silver               K2 Orisha Regular
Spike Silver                K4Gold                 K2 Orisha Max
K2 Strawberry               K3 Heaven Improved     K2 Orisha Super
K2 Pineapple Express        K3 Heaven Legal        K2 Amazonian Shelter
K2 Blueberry                K3 Sun Legal           K2 Solid Sex on the
K2 Pink                     K3 Sun Improved        Midnight Chill
K2 Blonde                   K3 Kryptonite          Unknown cigarette
K2 Summit                   K3 XXX                 Freedom
K2 Citron                   K3 Cosmic Blend        K2 Sex
K2 Ultra                    K3 Original            K2 Orisha White Magic
K2 Blue                     C4                     K2 Orisha Black Magic Max
MNGB Tropical Thunder       K1 Gravity             K2 Thai Dream
MNGB Pinata Colada          K1 Orbit               K4 Bubble Bubble
MNGB Almond/Vanilla         K2 Pina Colada         MTN-787
MNGB Peppermint             K3 Kryptonite          K2 Kryptonite
MNGB Spear Mint             K3 XXX                 Legal Eagle Apple
p.e.p. pourri Twisted       K3 Cosmic Blend Pie    K4 Purple Haze
Vanilla
p.e.p. pourri Original      K3 Original            K4 Summit Remix
Spearmint
p.e.p. pourri Love          Rasta Citrus Spice     8-Ball
Strawberry
p.e.p. pourri X Blueberry   Kind Spice             C4
K2 Summit                   Time Warp              K2
Voo Doo Remix (oranage)     Rasta Citrus Spice     Tribal Warrior
Voo Doo Remix (black        Pink Tiger             Spike99
package)
exSES                       Spice Gold             Spice Gold
Yucatan Fire Smoke          Cill Out               Spice Diamond
Skunk                       Smoke                  Spice Silver
Sense                       Forest Humus           Genie
EX-SES Platinum Blueberry   Scope Vanilla          Spike 99
EX-SES Platinum Cherry      Scope Wildberry        Jamaican Gold
EX-SES Platinum Strawberry  Chill X                Potpourri
EX-SES Platinum Vanilla     Space                  Winter Boost
Magic Silver                Silent Black           Citrus
Spice Artie Synergy         Sence                  Spice Gold
Spice Diamond               Smoke                  Spicey XXX
Spice Gold                  Caneff                 Spike 99
Spice Tropical Synergy      Spice Gold             Ex-SES Platinum
Spicey Regular XXX Bluebeny Gold Spirit Spice      Magic Gold
Spicey Regular XXX          Yucatan Fire           Bombay Blue
Spicey Ultra Strong XXX     Spice Diamond          Dream
Vanilla
Spicey Ultra Strong XXX     Smoke Plus             Spice Tropical Synergy
Spike 99 Ultra Blueberry    Magic Silver           Diamond Spirit
Spike 99 Ultra Cherry       Mojo                   Platinum Strawberry
Spike 99 Ultra Strawberry   EX-SES                 Spicey Ultra Strong XXX
Spike 99 Ultra Strawberry                          
 
(Ord. 2024-11, 3-18-2024)
9-29-3: POSSESSION UNLAWFUL:
No person shall knowingly possess a product containing a synthetic cannabinoid,
a synthetic stimulant, or a synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen, including but
not limited to those products set forth in subsection (b).
(Ord. 2024-11, 3-18-2024)
9-29-4: USE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of a synthetic
cannabinoid, a synthetic stimulant, or a synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen.
(Ord. 2024-11, 3-18-2024)
9-29-5: SALE OR DELIVERY UNLAWFUL:
No person shall sell, offer for sale or deliver any product containing a
synthetic psychedelic/hallucinogen §
9-29-2, cannabinoid, a synthetic stimulant or a synthetic including, but not
limited to, those products set forth in §
9-29-2.
(Ord. 2024-11, 3-18-2024)
9-29-6: PENALTY:
In addition to any other penalties provided by law and this Code, the owner of
any store convicted, or whose employee is convicted, of selling any product
containing synthetic cannaboid, synthetic stimulant or synthetic psychedelic/
hallucinogen, shall be subject to having his or her business license revoked
for good and sufficient cause as provided in Chapter 1 of Title V of the River
Grove Village Code.
(Ord. 2024-11, 3-18-2024)
TITLE X
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-2: Obedience to Police
10-1-3: Scene of Fire
10-1-4: Signs and Signals
10-1-5: Traffic Control Signal Legend
10-1-6: Flashing Signals
10-1-7: Unauthorized Signs
10-1-8: Animals or Bicycles
10-1-9: Bicycles on Sidewalk
10-1-10: Exemptions
10-1-11: Authority to Impound Vehicles
10-1-12: Relocation of Vehicles in Emergencies
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this Chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two tandem wheels either of which is more than twenty inches (20") in
diameter.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory within the Village Contiguous to and including
a street or highway when within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including but
not limited to hotels, banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and
public buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on
one side or three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the street
or highway.
CROSSWALK: (A) That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway;
   (B)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
Ambulances, Vehicles carrying a State, County, or Municipal officer or employee
in response to an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
GROSS WEIGHT: The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any load
thereon.
IMPROVED HIGHWAY: A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
LANED ROADWAY: A street, the roadway of which is divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
METAL TIRES: Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, non-resilient material.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires, but not operated upon
rails.
PARK: To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period time greater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of persons.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots or
property abutting thereon.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the municipality, the county, any park
district, school district, the State of Illinois, or the United States
Government.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory within the Village contiguous to and
including a street or highway not comprising a business district when the
property on such highway for a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is
in the main improved with residence or residences and buildings in use for
business.
RESIDENCE: A house in which a person lives with his family and makes his home.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
SAFETY ZONE: That portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle operated by or for a public or governmental
agency or by or for a private or religious organization solely for the
transportation of pupils in connection with school activities.
SEMI-TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the
adjacent property line designated for pedestrian use.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any highway for the purpose of travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moving by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
YIELD-RIGHT-OF-WAY: When required by an official sign means the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left,
provided that when the roadway is clear the vehicle may proceed into the
intersection.
10-1-2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE:
Members of the police department, and special police assigned to traffic duty,
are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may require,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order, signal or direction of a policeman. Except in case of emergency
it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt
to direct traffic.
10-1-3: SCENE OF FIRE:
The fire department officer in command, or any fireman designated by him, may
exercise the powers and authority of a policeman in directing traffic at the
scene of any fire or where the fire department has responded to an emergency
call for so long as fire department equipment is on the scene, in the absence
of or in assisting the police.
10-1-4: SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   (A)   All signs and signals required by this Section regulating or affecting
vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall be posted or caused to be posted by the
Chief of Police or other persons designated by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
Board of Trustees or in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois,
excepting on direction of a police officer.
   (C)   All signs and signals established by direction of the Board of
Trustees shall conform to the State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways.
10-1-5: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the words
"Go", "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights
shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go".
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow or "Caution" when shown with or following the green or "Go"
signal.
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting across
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or "Stop".
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal shall not enter the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection nor proceed beyond such other points as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line while this signal is displayed, but is
advised that another signal indication which will permit a traffic movement is
about to be displayed.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such a signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Yellow when shown with the red signal.
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal shall not enter the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection nor proceed beyond such other points as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line while this signal is displayed, but is
advised that another signal indication which will permit a traffic movement is
about to be displayed.
      2.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (F)   In the event an official traffic-control signal or flashing red signal
is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions
of this section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made at the signal, but in
the absence of any such sign or markings, the stop shall be made at the signal.
10-1-6: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used they shall require obedience
by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is Illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
10-1-7: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS:
No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway any
unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall any
person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway any other sign
which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or
effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal, and
no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon
any highway any traffic or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
Any such unauthorized device is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be
removed by any policeman.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere with
any official traffic sign or signal.
10-1-8: ANIMALS OR BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal. Provided
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks.
10-1-9: BICYCLES ON SIDEWALK:
No person over the age of ten (10) years shall run, use or propel any bicycle
or tricycle upon or over any sidewalk in said Village at any time.
10-1-10: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter regulating the movement or parking of vehicles
shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver upon approaching a red or stop
signal or any stop sign shall slow down as necessary for safety but may proceed
cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal. At other times drivers of
authorized emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges under the act except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law.
The provisions of this Chapter regulating the movement and parking of vehicles
shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively engaged in installing,
repairing, or otherwise improving streets or street pavement.
10-1-11: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
   (A)   Members of the police department of this Village are hereby authorized
to remove a vehicle, trailer or equipment from any public way to the nearest
authorized garage or yard as determined and designated by the Director of
Police Services under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated.
      1.   When any vehicle, trailer or equipment is left unattended upon any
bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel, or upon any approach thereto,
where such vehicle, trailer or equipment constitutes an obstruction to traffic.
      2.   When a vehicle, trailer or equipment upon any public way is so
disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person or persons
in charge of the vehicle, trailer or equipment are by reason of physical injury
incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or
removal.
      3.   When any vehicle, trailer or equipment is left unattended upon any
public way and is so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or
obstruction to the normal movement of traffic.
      4.   When an abandoned vehicle, trailer or equipment is found on any
public way or property.
      5.   When any vehicle, trailer or equipment is parked in violation of
official signs, indicating that parking, standing, or stopping is prohibited at
all times or during designated hours or prohibited for a longer time than
indicated on such sign.
      6.   When any vehicle, trailer or equipment is parked on a street, alley
or other public way within the corporate boundaries of the Village in violation
of a Permit Parking Only restriction where signs are posted indicating that any
parked vehicle, trailer or equipment without the required permit is subject to
being towed and impounded.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle, trailer or equipment is impounded or relocated
as provided for in this Chapter, the police department shall attempt to
determine the name and address of the owner thereof from the state registration
records and shall immediately notify such owner in writing of the fact of such
removal and impounding or relocation, the reason therefor, and the location of
such vehicle, trailer or equipment.
   (C)   The owner of any vehicle, trailer or equipment towed and impounded as
provided for in this Chapter may redeem such vehicle, trailer or equipment upon
submission of proof of the owner's identity, ownership and right to possession
of such vehicle, trailer or equipment, signing a receipt therefor and the
payment to the Village of a fee of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for passenger vehicles and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any other
vehicle, trailer or other equipment to cover the cost having the vehicle,
trailer or equipment towed and removed. In addition to the fee due the Village,
the owner shall be required to pay any fees that may be applicable for the
towing and storing of the vehicle, trailer or equipment. Such towing and
storage fees shall be paid to the tow company at the prevailing rate at the
garage, yard or parking lot at which said vehicle, trailer or equipment is
stored. The aforementioned fees shall be refunded to the owner or operator if
it is later determined that the vehicle, trailer or equipment was not subject
to being towed under this subsection.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle, trailer or equipment impounded as provided for
in this Chapter shall remain unclaimed for a period of thirty (30) days from
the day such vehicle, trailer or equipment was impounded and after notice has
been given, such vehicle, trailer or equipment shall be disposed of as an
unclaimed or abandoned motor vehicle under the authority of and in the manner
provided by the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/4-208. (Ord. 2021-08,
4-1-2021)
10-1-12: RELOCATION OF VEHICLES IN EMERGENCIES:
When any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon any
public way, members of the department of police are hereby authorized to remove
or have removed any such vehicle from one location to any other location. (6-
16-61)
CHAPTER 2
THROUGH AND ONE-WAY STREETS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Through Streets
10-2-2: One-Way Streets or Alleys
10-2-3: Stop Streets
10-2-1: THROUGH STREETS:
The streets and parts of streets of the Village designated by law as through
streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a vehicle
shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the right-of-way
to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are approaching
so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless
directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic-control signal.
10-2-2: ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street or alley designated
as a one-way street or alley by law, in any direction other than that so
designated.
10-2-3: STOP STREETS:
The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto, and
shall proceed cautiously yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police
officer on duty, in which event the directions of the police officer shall be
complied with. (6-16-61)
CHAPTER 3
RULES FOR DRIVING
SECTION:
10-3-1: Position and Method Of Turning
10-3-2: Turning On Crest Of Hill
10-3-3: Starting Parked Vehicle
10-3-4: Driver's Signal
10-3-5: Driving From Alleys, Driveways Or Garages
10-3-6: Vehicles On Sidewalks Or In Safety Zones
10-3-7: Right-of-way
10-3-8: Vehicle Turning Left
10-3-9: Limitation On Turning Around
10-3-10: "U" Turn
10-3-11: No Left Turn
10-3-12: Fire Department Vehicles; Fires
10-3-13: Driving On Right Side Of Roadway
10-3-14: Passing Vehicles
10-3-15: Overtaking Vehicles
10-3-16: Overtaking Vehicles On The Right
10-3-17: Limitations On Overtaking On The Left
10-3-18: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
10-3-19: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
10-3-20: Reckless Driving
10-3-20.1: Careless Driving
10-3-20.2: Drag Racing
10-3-21: Speed
10-3-22: Traffic Not To Be Obstructed
10-3-23: Bicycles And Motorcycles
10-3-24: Unattended Vehicles
10-3-25: Unattended Animals
10-3-26: Clinging To Vehicles
10-3-27: Toy Vehicles
10-3-28: Riding On Running Boards
10-3-29: Train Signals
10-3-30: Driving Through Funeral Or Other Procession
10-3-31: Drivers In A Procession
10-3-32: Funeral Processions To Be Identified
10-3-33: Backing
10-3-34: Restricted Access
10-3-35: Trucks Prohibited On Certain Streets
10-3-36: Limited Load Streets
10-3-37: School Buses
10-3-38: Truck Traffic
10-3-39: Operation Of Non-Highway Vehicles
10-3-40: Regulation Of Unscheduled Bus Stops
10-3-1: POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable in the left lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private road
or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
highway.
10-3-2: TURNING ON CREST OF HILL:
No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within five hundred feet (500').
10-3-3: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
10-3-4: DRIVER'S SIGNAL:
No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or attempt to turn
without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to apprise others
who might be affected by his action.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian
may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by
such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given during not
less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before
turning.
The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand and arm
or by signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so constructed or
loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and
rear of such vehicle than said signals must be given by such a lamp or device.
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
      1.   Left turn-Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn-Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease of speed-Hand and arm extended downward.
10-3-5: DRIVING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR GARAGES:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage shall stop
such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or across a sidewalk
line projected across such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in driving
upon said sidewalk or across such line.
10-3-6: VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK OR IN SAFETY ZONES:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of a
roadway marked as a safety zone.
It is unlawful to drive, propel, push or pull any motor vehicle or trailer over
the curbing along any street within this Village excepting at a place where a
driveway exists for that purpose.
10-3-7: RIGHT-OF-WAY:
Excepting as other wise herein provided, the driver of a vehicle approaching an
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection from a different highway; and when two vehicles entering an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the
right.
10-3-8: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT:
The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
10-3-9: LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn such vehicle so as
to proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety
and without backing into traffic or otherwise interfering with traffic.
10-3-10: "U" TURNS:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a "U" turn at any
place where such turns are prohibited.
10-3-11: NO LEFT TURN:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to turn left at any
place where such turns are prohibited.
10-3-12: FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES; FIRES:
Upon the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles shall
comply with the provisions of Section
10-3-19 of this Chapter relating to the approach of authorized emergency
vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on official
business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm, closer than
one block, or to park any vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped to answer a fire alarm.
It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive over any
unprotected hose of the fire department without the consent of the fire marshal
or the assistant in command.
10-3-13: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon the right
half of the roadway except as follows:
   (A)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
   (B)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (C)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon.
   (D)   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic.
   (E)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public
highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
10-3-14: PASSING VEHICLES:
Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to
the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic
in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2)
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
10-3-15: OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
10-3-16: OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE RIGHT:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four (4) or more lines of moving traffic when such
movement can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon
the shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right on a one-way street, or on any street on which traffic is restricted to
one direction of movement where the roadway is free from obstructions and of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving vehicles.
10-3-17: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT:
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
   (B)   No vehicle shall in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any
other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
      1.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the driver's view is obstructed within sufficient distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
      2.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
      3.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right, or a distinctive center line is marked, which distinctive line also so
directs traffic as declared in the sign manual adopted by the State Department
of Public Works and Buildings.
      4.   The limitation in sub-paragraph 1 and 2 of this paragraph "B" shall
not apply upon a one-way street or upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction
when such movement can be made with safety.
10-3-18: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into three (3) or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic the following rules in addition to all other consistent
herewith shall apply:
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes a vehicle shall
not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such
center line is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction that the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of
such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
10-3-19: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when the driver
is giving audible sign by siren, or bell, or visual sign by flashing light, the
driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the highway. (1964 Code)
10-3-20: RECKLESS DRIVING:
It is unlawful to drive any vehicle within the Village with a wilful or a
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.
10-3-20.1: CARELESS DRIVING:
It is unlawful to drive any vehicle within the Village negligently, heedlessly
or without due care and caution in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property.
10-3-20.2: DRAG RACING:
Any person, who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is a participant in a drag
race shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). For the purpose of this Section, "drag racing"
means the act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any street
or highway in this Village in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is
beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing driver and the
one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or overtaking
him. (Ord. 1965-8; 4-1-65)
10-3-21: SPEED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon any street or alley
within this Village at a speed in excess of that permitted by the provisions of
this Code or applicable statute of the State of Illinois;
   (B)   Appropriate signs shall be posted by the Chief of Police or other
person designated by the Board of Trustees showing the speed limits on the
streets and alleys within the Village;
   (C)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
10-3-22: TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED:
No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
10-3-23: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycle other than upon a seat permanently attached to said vehicle to the
right or rear of the operator.
10-3-24: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
No vehicles shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
10-3-25: UNATTENDED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in any
street without having such animal securely fastened.
10-3-26: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle, motorcycle,
or any toy vehicle to cling to or to attach himself or his vehicle to any
moving motor vehicle or wagon.
10-3-27: TOY VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other toy
vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
10-3-28: RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board or
outside step of any vehicle.
10-3-29: TRAIN SIGNALS:
The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a signal
device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop within
fifty feet (50') but not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest track of
such railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
The driver of a vehicle shall stop at and not traverse such grade crossing when
a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman, or automatic signal warns of the
approach of a train.
The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any school bus
carrying any school children, or any vehicle carrying explosives or flammable
liquid as cargo shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but not less
than ten feet (10') from the nearest rail of the tracks and shall listen and
look in both directions along such track from which a train might come, before
proceeding across such tracks as a grade crossing. Provided that no such stop
need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a traffic-control
signal directs to proceed.
10-3-30: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION:
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously designated as required in this article. This provision shall not
apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals
or police officers.
10-3-31: DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION:
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right-
hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
close as practical and safe.
10-3-32: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED:
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by
the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying
insignia and by having the lights of each vehicle lighted.
10-3-33: BACKING:
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interference with other traffic.
10-3-34: RESTRICTED ACCESS:
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled or limited
controlled access roadway except at such entrances and exits as are established
by public authority.
10-3-35: TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only on any street so designated by the
provisions of this Code and properly sign posted.
10-3-36: LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is limited by ordinance
and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except for the
purpose of making a delivery or picking up a load, in which case such vehicle
may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance necessary
for the purpose.
10-3-37: SCHOOL BUSES:
The driver of a vehicle on a street or highway upon meeting or overtaking from
either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal as required by the statute for operation while the bus is transporting
pupils; and said driver shall not proceed until such school bus resumes motion,
or is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed, or the visual signals are
no longer actuated provided that the driver of a vehicle upon a street or
highway of which the roadways for traffic moving in opposite directions are
separated by a strip of ground which is not surfaced or suitable for vehicle
traffic need not stop his vehicle upon meeting or passing a school bus which is
on the opposite roadway. (6-16-61)
10-3-38: TRUCK TRAFFIC:
   (A)   Definitions: Whenever in this section of Chapter 3 of Title 10, the
following terms are used, they shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this section:
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the fire department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a state, county or municipal official or employee
in response to an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle load so drawn.!DEFEND!
   (B)   Truck Traffic Limitations:
      1.   It is unlawful to drive any commercial truck or truck tractor,
except for the purpose of making a delivery, conducting business, or providing
services (and then for one block only) on any street or other public
thoroughfare hereafter named in the Village of River Grove.
      2.   All through truck traffic is prohibited on all residential streets
located within the corporate limits of the Village. The exception to this
subsection is permitted only for local deliveries located in the Village, as
long as the delivery route taken is on permitted streets, whenever possible.
      3.   Any vehicle owned or operated by the Village of River Grove, any
government agency, or any public utility shall be exempt from the provisions of
this section.
   (C)   No Truck Traffic Designations: Through truck traffic is prohibited on
the following identified streets and roads, and the proper signs shall be
installed indicating a prohibition of through truck traffic on said streets and
roads:
Auxplaines Street                     Julian Terrace
Belden Avenue                         Leyden Avenue
Beulah Avenue                         Lyndale Street
Boyle Terrace                         Maple Street
Budd Street                           Marwood Street
Carey Avenue                          Oak Street
Center Avenue west of First Avenue    O’Connor Drive
Cherry Avenue                         Palmer Street west of West Street
Chestnut Avenue                       Palmer Street east of Leyden Avenue
Clarke Avenue                         Paris Avenue
Clinton Street south of Grand Avenue  Rhodes Avenue
Davisson Street south of Grand Avenue Richard Street
Ditka Drive                           Ridge Street
Elm Street                            River Grove Avenue
Enger Lane                            Roosevelt Lane
Erie Street south of Grand Avenue     Smith Lane
Finley Avenue                         Spruce Street
Forest Avenue                         Struckman Avenue
Forest View Avenue                    Tarpey Place
Franklin Avenue                       Trumbull Avenue
Fullerton Avenue                      Walsh Lane
Greenwood Terrace                     Webster Street south of Grand Avenue
Grove Street                          West Street north of Palmer Street
Haymond Street south of Grand Avenue  Wood Street
Herrick Avenue                        Wrightwood Avenue
Hessing Street south of Grand Avenue
 
Any vehicle owned or operated by the Village or any agency thereof or any
emergency vehicle shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Limited Truck Weight On Residential Streets:
      1.   General Restriction: Except as set forth in subsections (D)2. and
(D)3. of this section, it shall be unlawful to operate any truck having a gross
weight, including load, exceeding twelve thousand pounds (12,000) upon any
residential street within the Village.
      2.   Pickups, Deliveries And Services: Trucks exceeding twelve thousand
pounds (12,000) may be operated on residential streets within the Village for
the purpose of making pickups, deliveries and/or providing services, provided
such trucks may only exit a truck route or major arterial street to enter a
residential street to make pickups, deliveries or to provide services by use of
a direct route from the point on the truck route or major arterial street,
which is closest to the pickup, delivery or service location. When the pickup,
delivery or service is complete, the truck must exit the residential street by
use of the closest point from the location of a pickup, delivery or service to
a truck route or major arterial street.
      3.   Exemptions:
         (a)   The following vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this
section:
            (1)   Trucks owned and operated by governmental agencies,
including, but not limited to, fire apparatus and equipment for snow and ice
removal operations;
            (2)   Trucks engaged in snow and ice removal functions under
contract with or at the direction of the Village;
            (3)   Trucks engaged in the collection and removal of garbage and
refuse; and
            (4)   Trucks so directed by a police officer.
         (b)   The following trucks are also exempt from the restrictions of
this section but only to the extent that such truck is operated along the
shortest route between the point of origin or destination and the nearest truck
route or major arterial street:
            (1)   Trucks actively performing construction activities;
            (2)   Trucks actually engaged in snow and ice removal functions on
private property;
            (3)   Trucks owned and operated by private utilities or moving
companies while actually in the performance of services;
            (4)   School and public transportation buses; and
            (5)   Tow trucks.
      4. Fines: If any truck is operated in violation of this section, the
driver or owner of the truck shall be liable and fined as provided by the
following schedule:
Weight Fine
Weight                                      Fine
Up to and including 2,000 pounds overweight $100.00
From 2,001 through 2,500 pounds overweight  $150.00
From 2,501 through 3,000 pounds overweight  $200.00
From 3,001 through 3,500 pounds overweight  $300.00
From 3,501 through 4,000 pounds overweight  $400.00
From 4,001 through 4,500 pounds overweight  $500.00
From 4,501 through 5,000 pounds overweight  $600.00
From 5,001 or more pounds overweight        $750.00
 
      5.   Bonds And Bond Forfeiture: All drivers or owners of a truck charged
with a violation of this section of this chapter shall post the cash bond in an
amount equal to the amount of the fine established by this subsection. The
person or owner charged with the violation may, in lieu of a cash bail, deposit
a money order issued by a money transfer service company, which has been
approved by the Finance Department of the Village of River Grove. The money
order shall be made payable to the Village of River Grove.
      6.   Authority Of Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer: All
violations of this section of this Chapter of Title 10 relating to overweight
trucks on residential streets within the Village may be heard and decided by
the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer of the Village of River Grove
as set forth in
Chapter 20 of Title 1 of the River Grove Village Code.
      7.   Signage And Notice: Appropriate signage giving reasonable notice of
the maximum allowable gross truck weight on residential streets in the Village
shall be installed. (Ord. 2019-29, 11-7-2019)
10-3-39: OPERATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   (A)   Vehicles Allowed on Streets. Golf Carts and Utility-Terrain Vehicles,
as defined and qualified herein, shall be allowed on Village streets under the
conditions as stated herein. Dirt bikes and ATVs are prohibited.
   (B)   Definitions.
 
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE:              As defined by Section 1-101.8 of IVC.
                                  A vehicle specifically designed and intended
                                  for the purposes of transporting one or more
                                  persons and their golf clubs or maintenance
                                  equipment while engaged in the playing of
GOLF CART:                        golf, supervising the play of golf or
                                  maintaining the condition of the grounds on a
                                  public or private golf course, and as
                                  otherwise defined by Section 1-123.9 of the
                                  IVC.
OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE:           As defined by Section 1-153.1 of the IVC.
RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: As defined by Section 1-168.8 of the IVC.
                                  State and county roads include without
                                  limitation Grand Avenue, Thatcher Avenue,
STATE AND COUNTY ROADS:           First Avenue, Des Plaines River Road, Belmont
                                  Avenue, Fullerton Avenue (east of First
                                  Avenue), and North Avenue.
                                  Any recreational motor vehicle other than an
                                  ATV, motorcycle, or snowmobile, designed for
                                  and capable of travel over designated unpaved
                                  roads, traveling on four or more low pressure
                                  tires of 20 psi or less, maximum width less
UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE:          than 74 inches, maximum weight less than
                                  2,000 pounds, or having a wheel base of 94
                                  inches or less. UTV does not include golf
                                  carts, vehicles specifically designed to
                                  carry a disabled person or implements of
                                  husbandry.
                                  Any of the streets within the boundaries of
VILLAGE STREETS:                  the Village except for State and County
                                  Roads.
 
   (C)   Requirements. All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or utility-
terrain vehicle on the Village streets shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Provide proof of current liability insurance clearly identifying
coverage for operation of a golf cart and/or utility-terrain vehicle.
      2.   The vehicle shall be certified by the Village by inspection by the
Police Chief or designated representative.
      3.   Any operator must comply with any published “Rules Concerning
Alternate Transportation for the Village of River Grove” as periodically
updated.
      4.   The vehicle shall display a Village decal on the rear of the
vehicle.
      5.   Any operator shall have a current, valid driver’s license and must
be at least 18 years of age and show proof of insurance.
      6.   Golf carts and utility-terrain vehicles must be equipped as follows:
         (a)   Horn;
         (b)   Brakes and brake lights;
         (c)   Turn signals on the front and rear;
         (d)   A steering wheel apparatus;
         (e)   Tires;
         (f)   Rearview mirror;
         (g)   Red reflector warning devices in the rear;
         (h)   Headlights that emit a white light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
         (i)   Tail lamps that emit a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation;
         (j)   Seat belts for operator and all passengers;
         (k)   The golf cart or utility-terrain vehicle must have a windshield
or operator must wear goggles or eyewear or eye protection;
         (l)   A slow moving emblem (as required of other vehicles in 625 ILCS
5/12-709 of the IVC) on the rear of the non-highway vehicle.
         (m)   The provision of 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code as the same shall currently exist and as it shall hereinafter be amended
is adopted as a part hereof.
      (7)   For purposes of this section, both golf carts and utility-terrain
vehicles may be referred to as “vehicles.”
   (D)   Rules. The following rules shall apply to the operation of golf carts
and utilityterrain vehicles on Village streets and breach thereof shall
constitute an Ordinance Violation.
      1.   The Operator shall obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois
and the Village of River Grove.
      2.   The operator and all passengers shall wear seatbelts when the
vehicle is in operation.
      3.   Vehicles shall be operated only on Village streets, except where
prohibited.
      4.   Vehicles shall not be capable of speeds exceeding 20 miles per hour.
The definition of golf cart/UTV specifically excludes all-terrain vehicles,
ATVs or any vehicle that is not a golf cart/UTV.
      5.   Vehicles shall not be operated on either Grand Avenue, Thatcher
Avenue, First Avenue, Des Plaines River Road, Belmont Avenue, Fullerton Avenue
(east of First Avenue), or North Avenue.
      6.   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of a vehicle
as described herein on a roadway while under the influence of alcohol or a
controlled substance is subject to § 11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes and any applicable ordinance of the Village.
      7.   Vehicles shall not be operated on any sidewalk, park, forest
preserve or other public area, unless such operation is for the sole purpose of
preserving, maintaining, or repairing public streets, alleys, sidewalks,
vegetation, and other public areas or improvements.
      8.   Vehicles shall have front head lamps on at all times when vehicles
are in operation.
      9.   Vehicles shall only be operated on streets where the posted speed
limit is 35 miles per hour or less.
   (E)   Permits.
      1.   No person shall operate a qualified vehicle without first obtaining
a permit from the Chief of Police or a designated representative. Permits shall
be granted for a period of 365 days, commencing on July 1st of each year and
expiring on June 30th of each year. The cost of the permit is One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00) per year to be designated to the General Funds of the
Village. An applicant must provide proof of Insurance coverage which is to be
verified to be in effect by the Village Clerk or designated representative when
obtaining and renewing a permit.
      2.   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by
the Village and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Name of liability insurance carrier and policy number;
         (c)   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart and/
or utility-terrain vehicle;
         (d)   Signed Waiver of Liability by applicant releasing the Village
and its employees, and agreeing to indemnify and hold the Village harmless from
any and all future claims resulting from the operation of their vehicle on the
Village streets;
         (e)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
         (f)   Such other information as the Village or Chief of Police may
require.
      3.   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The vehicle must be inspected by the Chief of Police or
designated representative to insure that the vehicle is safe to operate on
Village streets and is in compliance with this ordinance and with the State of
Illinois Vehicle Code;
         (b)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate
signed by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate
a qualified vehicle on Village streets;
         (c)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance
with the provisions of the Illinois Statutes regarding minimum liability
insurance for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the road of the State
of Illinois.
      4.   The Village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this ordinance or
there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate a qualified vehicle
on the designated roadways.
   (F)   Violations. A person who violates any provision of this ordinance
shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of $150.
Any second or subsequent offense shall be punished by a fine of $300.00 and
result in the revocation of the permit for a period of not less than three nor
more than five years. To the extent that any violation of this ordinance also
constitutes a violation of criminal statutes of the State of Illinois, the
violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
   (G)   Miscellaneous.
      1.   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
particular provision of this ordinance to be invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining provision of this ordinance shall be construed to be valid and
enforceable. The invalidity of any part of this ordinance shall not affect any
part or parts thereof.
      2.   This ordinance, or portion thereof, of the Village which is contrary
to this ordinance shall be deemed to be repealed.
(Ord. 2021-30, 8-19-2021)
10-3-40: REGULATION OF UNSCHEDULED BUS STOPS:
   (A)   Definitions: The terms used in this Section shall be defined as
follows;
      APPLICATION: A request for approval to make a bus stop in the Village of
River Grove on a form to be provided by the Director of Police Services or his
designee that meets all the requirements of this Section.
      APPROVAL: A written notice signed by the Director of Police Services or
his designee which approves an Application submitted in conformance with this
Section.
      BUS: Any type of motor vehicle that is designed to carry, or is actually
carrying, more than ten (10) individuals.
      DIRECTOR: The Director of Police Services/Chief of Police of the
Village's Police Department.
      REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: Bus service that operates trips involving
the dropping off of passengers in the Village on a predictable and recurring
basis, following a schedule that is published in advance and available to the
general public, and provides service in exchange for paying a fare.
      UNSCHEDULED BUS STOP: Any location in the Village of River Grove where
individuals are dropped off by a Bus that originated from a location outside of
Cook County, Illinois that is not providing regularly scheduled service and not
operating pursuant to the written approval of the Director pursuant to this
Section.
   (B)   No Unscheduled Bus Stops. It shall be a violation of this section for
the owner, operator, or driver of any Bus to make an Unscheduled Bus Stop for
the purpose of dropping off passengers in the Village of River Grove.
   (C)   Application. The owner, operator, or driver of any Bus that is not
providing Regularly Scheduled Service that desires to make a Bus stop to drop
off passengers in the Village of River Grove shall file an Application with the
Director using a form to be prepared by the Director. The completed Application
and all required information shall be submitted to the Director at least five
(5) calendar days prior to the date of the proposed drop-off date. The
Application shall include and provide the following information:
      1.   The full name, full address, and telephone number(s) of the Owner,
Operator, and Driver of the Bus. The mobile phone number of the Driver of the
Bus shall also be provided.
      2.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers
of the entity or individuals that has either directed, paid for, or financed
the transport of persons to be dropped off in the Village of River Grove by the
Bus.
      3.   The full name of all persons that are proposed to be dropped-off in
the Village of River Grove along with copies of government issued
identification cards for each said person to the extent such identification
cards exist or are in the possession of each said person.
      4.   The name, address, or location in the Village of River Grove at
which the Bus proposes to drop off passengers.
      5.   The date and time at which the Bus passengers will be dropped off in
the Village of River Grove which shall be between the hours of eight o’clock
(8:00) a.m. and five o’clock (5:00) p.m. on a Monday through Friday, but
excluding any weekday holiday.
      6.   The name and address of all locations from which the passengers are
being picked-up for transport to the Village of River Grove.
      7.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers
of all entities or individuals that shall be present in the Village of River
Grove to meet the Bus and receive the passengers when they are dropped off.
      8.   A detailed plan identifying how the individuals being dropped off
will be cared for, housed, and fed, either temporarily or permanently, upon
being dropped off in the Village of River Grove. The plan shall include the
full names, full addresses, and landline and mobile telephone numbers of all
persons that will be present at the date and time of the drop-off and
responsible for the care, housing and feeding of the passengers. The plan shall
be signed by the entity that agrees to be responsible for the care of the
individuals and at least one additional individual that will be present to
receive the passengers and responsible for their care. The entity and the
individual that will present to receive the passengers and be responsible for
their care shall each by their signature certify that they will be responsible
for providing the actions detailed in the plan.
   D.   Application Approval. Upon receipt of an Application pursuant to this
Section, the Director shall review same and undertake a review of the
information contained in the Application to verify its truth and authenticity.
If the Application is not complete, the Director shall, in writing, advise the
Applicant of the additional items needed to complete the Application. If within
four (4) calendar days after receiving an full and complete Application, the
Director, provided he/she has not received any information that the Application
is false or untrue in any manner, shall inform the Applicant that the
Application is approved for the stated location. The Director shall further
provide a telephone number to the Applicant or Driver to coordinate the arrival
of the Bus in the Village of River Grove.
   E.   Violations. It shall be a violation of this Section for any individual
or entity to violate any of the terms of this Section and/or engage in any of
the following actions:
      1.   The submission of an Application that is false or untrue in any
manner;
      2.   The failure of any entity or individual that is responsible for the
care, housing, or feeding of any passengers dropped-off in the Village of River
Grove to implement or perform the detailed plan pursuant to the terms of an
approved Application;
      3.   Making an Unscheduled Bus Stop in the Village of River Grove; or
      4.   Initiating any Bus transportation to the Village of River Grove
which requires the approval of the Bus stop location without submitting an
Application or failing to obtain approval of an Application as required by this
Section.
   F.   Penalties: Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of, any of the provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00)
nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A
separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon
which said person shall continue any such violation or permit any such
violation to exist after notification thereof. The Village at its discretion
may enforce this Section by:
      1.   A quasicriminal action seeking the payment of a monetary penalty
adjudicated under the Village's Administrative adjudication system; or
      2.   An action seeking monetary and injunctive relief filed in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or any other Court having jurisdiction over the
violator.
   G.   Seizure and Impoundment of Bus:
      1.   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a violation of
this Section has occurred the Bus is subject to seizure and impoundment in
addition to any other monetary penalty or other remedy that may be pursued. The
police officer shall, in the exercise of discretion, provide for the towing of
the Bus to a facility approved by the Police Department.
      2.   Upon the towing of a Bus, the police officer shall notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner of record, lessee, person claiming to be
the owner or lessee, or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle
at the time of the alleged violation of the fact of the seizure and of the
vehicle owner's right to request an administrative hearing.
   H.   Administrative Tow Hearing:
      1.   Within five (5) business days after a Bus is seized and impounded,
the Village shall notify, by personal service, first class mail, or certified
mail, the owner of record, lessee, and any lienholder of recorder of the
owner's right to request a hearing to determine whether a violation of this
Section actually occurred. The name and address of the person to whom a vehicle
is registered as shown on the records of the State in which the vehicle is
registered shall be conclusive evidence of the name and address of the owner of
record of the vehicle, unless the owner of record gave the Village actual
written notice of a different name or address.
      2.   In order to obtain a hearing, the owner of record must file a
written request for a hearing with the Village Clerk or the Police Department
no later than ten (10) business days after the date the notice was mailed. The
hearing date must be scheduled for a date that is no more than fifteen (15)
business days after a request for a hearing has been filed. The person
requesting the hearing shall be given at least five (5) business days' notice
of the date of the hearing.
      3.   The hearing shall be conducted by an adjudicator appointed in
accordance with this Code's Administrative Hearing Procedures. The owner of the
Bus shall have the right to be represented by an attorney; the right to notice
of the charges causing the seizure and impoundment of the Bus; the right to
present witness and documentary evidence; and the right to cross-examine all
witnesses.
      4.   If, after the hearing, the adjudicator determines, by a
preponderance of evidence, that a violation of this Section has occurred
involving the seized and impounded Bus, then the hearing officer shall enter an
order finding the owner of record of the vehicle liable to the Village for the
administrative fees of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), which shall
be in addition to any other penalties, fines and remedy sought. If, after a
hearing, the adjudicator does not determine, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the vehicle was used in violation of Section of this Code, the
hearing officer shall enter an order finding for the owner and ordering the
return of the vehicle.
      5.   If the owner of record fails to request a hearing on the seizure and
impoundment of the Bus in a timely manner or fails to appear at the hearing,
the owner of record shall be deemed to have waived the owner's right to a
hearing, and the adjudicator may enter a default order in favor of the Village
in the amount of the administrative fees. However, if the owner of record pays
such penalty and the vehicle is returned to the owner, no default order need be
entered if the owner is informed of his or her right to a hearing and signs a
written waiver, in which case, an order of liability shall be deemed to have
been made when the Village receives the written waiver.
   I.   Requirements for Recovery of a Seized and Impounded Bus: A vehicle
impounded pursuant to this Section shall remain impounded until:
      1.   The administrative fees of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
is paid to the Village and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing
agent, in which case, the owner of record shall be given possession of the Bus;
      2.   A bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00{'}'} is
posted with the Village, and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing
agent, at which time, the Bus will be released to the owner of record; or
      3.   The Bus is deemed abandoned, in which case, it shall be disposed of
in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned vehicles.
   J.   Posting Bond:
      1.   If a bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) is
posted with the Police Department, the impounded Bus shall be released to the
owner of record, and the owner of the Bus shall still be liable to the towing
agent for any applicable towing fees.
      2.   If a after an Administrative Hearing on the seizure and impoundment
of the Bus, it is determined that the Bus was used in violation of Section, the
posted bond shall be forfeited to the Village; however, if a violation of this
Section is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be
returned to the person posting the bond, and all towing fees shall be waived.
      3.   All bond money posted pursuant to this Section shall be held by the
Village until the adjudicator issues a decision or, if there is a judicial
review, until a final order is entered in the judicial proceeding in which
review is sought.
   K.   Disposition of an Unclaimed Bus: Any Bus that is not reclaimed or
subject to judicial review within thirty-five (35) days after the
administrative adjudicator issues a final written decision shall be deemed
abandoned and disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law.
(Ord. 2024-05, 1-8-2024)
CHAPTER 4
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Right-Of-Way At Intersection Crosswalks
10-4-2: Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks
10-4-3: Traffic Management Control And Signals
10-4-4: Obstructing Use Of Sidewalk
10-4-5: Pedestrian Walking Along Roadways
10-4-6: Blind Pedestrians
10-4-7: Penalty
10-4-1: RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTION CROSSWALKS:
   (A)   Intersection Cross Walks without Traffic Control Signals. Where
traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be, to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway or street within any marked crosswalk or within
any unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Intersection Cross Walks with Traffic Control Signals. Whenever stop
signals or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection or a marked
crosswalk between intersections, the pedestrian shall have the right-of-way
over drivers of vehicles; and at such marked places, drivers of vehicles shall
stop before entering the nearest crosswalk, and any pedestrian within or
entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right-of-
way over any vehicle so stopped.
   (C)   All Vehicles Required to Stop for Pedestrian in Crosswalk. The driver
of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any vehicle
proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for the purpose
of permitting a pedestrian to cross. (Ord. 2020-07, 4-16-2020)
10-4-2: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
   (A)   Jay Walking. Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway, and
shall not cross a roadway in this manner if such crossing interferes with the
lawful movement of traffic.
   (B)   Crosswalks Must Be Used. Between adjacent intersections at which
traffic control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any
place except in a marked crosswalk.
   (C)   Diagonal Crossing. No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection
diagonally unless authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when
authorized to cross diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with
the official traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (D)   Stay Within Markings: No pedestrian shall walkthrough an underpass or
overpass roadway at any point other than within a marked crosswalk or within a
designated walking area.
   (E)   Failure or Refusal To Use Safe Crossing. Any pedestrian crossing a
roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing
has been provided shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the
roadway.
   (F)   Duty to Avoid Accident. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the
horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any
child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway. (Ord. 2020-07, 4-
16-2020)
10-4-3: TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT CONTROL AND SIGNALS:
   (A)   Manual Traffic Control. At intersections where traffic is directed by
a police officer, community service officer or crossing guard, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway other as directed by the
police officer, community service officer or crossing guard.
   (B)   Automated Traffic Control. At intersections where traffic is directed
by a stop and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the
roadway other than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the
lawful movement of traffic. (Ord. 2020-07, 4-16-2020)
10-4-4: OBSTRUCTING USE OF SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as near
as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians. (Ord. 2020-07,
4-16-2020)
10-4-5: PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway
or its shoulder facing traffic, and upon meeting a vehicle shall step off to
the left.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle. (Ord. 2020-07, 4-16-2020)
10-4-6: BLIND PEDESTRIANS:
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Chapter, any blind person
who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or walking stick which
is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being guided by a dog,
shall have the right-of-way in crossing any street or highway, whether or not
traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic signals. The driver
of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or highway shall
bring the vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person who is not
carrying such a cane or walking stick or who is not guided by a guide dog when
walking on streets, highways or sidewalks. (Rev. Ord. 1939; amd. Ord. 2020-07,
4-16-2020)
10-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of chapter shall be fined
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense, and up to seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for any subsequent offense. (Ord, 2020-07, 4-16-2020)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING RULES
SECTION:
10-5-1: No Parking And No Standing Places
10-5-2: Parking At Curb
10-5-3: Vehicles For Sale
10-5-4: Loading Zone
10-5-5: Parking On Public Property
10-5-6: Alley
10-5-7: Bus Stand
10-5-8: Time Limit Parking
10-5-9: Street And Right-Of-Way Maintenance Regulations
10-5-10: Limitation On Oversized Vehicle Parking
10-5-11: Boat And Trailer Parking
10-5-12: Parking For Handicapped Persons
10-5-13: Electric Vehicles
10-5-1: NO PARKING AND NO STANDING PLACES:
It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle in any of the following
places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic control device:
   (A)   In any intersection.
   (B)   In a crosswalk.
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto.
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
   (E)   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon, or sign on the
approaching side.
   (F)   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
   (G)   At any place where the parking or standing of a vehicle will reduce
the usable width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet
(18').
   (H)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   (I)   In such a manner that wholly or partially blocks ingress or egress
from any public or private driveway or garage.
   (J)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
   (K)   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any Fire
Department station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any
such station within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly sign
posted.
   (L)   On any sidewalk, parkway, curb or any other area not approved or
designated for parking a vehicle including without limitation to the side of an
approved drive way, on lawn or yard area, and any other area not approved as a
designated parking area or garage.
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (N)   On the street or roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
   (O)   On private property without the consent of the owner of the private
property.
   (P)   In a manner which obstructs or partially obstructs the free and
unimpeded flow of pedestrian traffic on any public sidewalk regardless of
whether the vehicle is partially located upon a designated driveway or other
authorized parking area.
   (Q)   On the public apron of any driveway or other authorized parking area.
   (R)   On any street, alley, parking area, or other thoroughfare marked
"employee parking only" unless the vehicle properly displays an employee
parking only permit or placard. (Rev. Ord. 1939 Code; amd. Ord. 2020-11, 5-7-
2020; Ord. 2025-07, 3-17-2025)
10-5-2: PARKING AT CURB:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb,
except on one way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two (2)
right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly
established curb line, except that upon those streets that have been marked for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by
such marks. (Rev. Ord. 1939 Code)
10-5-3: VEHICLES FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any street from which
vehicle merchandise is peddled. (Rev. Ord. 1939 Code)
10-5-4: LOADING ZONE:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle
for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of
passengers, not to exceed three (3) minutes, and for the driver to stand any
freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is necessary to
load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any
place designated by the Board of Trustees as a loading zone and marked as such,
or in any of the following designated places:
   (A)   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
   (B)   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. except on Sunday.
   (C)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open for business. (Rev. Ord. 1939 Code)
10-5-5: PARKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any property owned
by the Village and used for the transaction of public business where such
parking prohibited by order of the custodian of such property. This section
shall not apply to Village owned vehicles or to other vehicles where operation
is useful or essential to the proper functioning of the department, board or
commission occupying the property. The custodian of the property shall post "No
Parking" signs indicating the foregoing prohibition. (Rev. Ord. 1939 Code)
10-5-6: ALLEY:
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in any alley for a
period of time longer than is necessary for the reasonably expeditious loading
or unloading of such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such
a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (Rev.
Ord. 1939 Code)
10-5-7: BUS STAND:
No vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus
loading zone. (Rev. Ord. 1939 Code)
10-5-8: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a
longer consecutive period of time than that designated between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. in any area designated as
a limited parking area and so marked. (Rev. Ord. 1939 Code)
10-5-9: STREET AND RIGHT-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   In order to facilitate the proper maintenance, cleaning and
construction of the streets of the Village and other improvements existing
within the right-of-way of the Village, including, without limitation, tree
planting or maintenance, and water and sewer repair, replacement or
maintenance, it is unlawful to park any vehicle along the curb on any street in
violation of signs erected indicating that such street or right-of-way is
scheduled for maintenance on the particular day.
   (B)   The regulations provided for in subsection (A) of this section shall
be effective during the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. through two o'clock
(2:00) P.M. and be in effect from January 1 through December 31 of each
calendar year, to facilitate street and right-of-way cleaning, sweeping,
repairs and any other action necessary for the proper maintenance of the
Village street or right-of-way.
   (C)   The regulations provided for in subsection (A) of this section shall
also be in effect whenever a snowfall of two inches (2") or more has
accumulated to facilitate snow removal and salting procedures.
   (D)   Vehicles parked in violation of this section shall, in addition to any
other penalty provided, be subject to removal and impounding as provided for in
section
10-1-11 of this title.
(Ord. 2011-12, 4-21-2011; amd. Ord. 2019-28, 9-19-2019)
10-5-10: LIMITATION ON OVERSIZED VEHICLE PARKING:
It is unlawful to park an oversized vehicle, as defined in this section, on any
street in or adjoining a residential district within this Village.
A vehicle is not included in this regulation if the specific vehicle does not
exceed any of the following size criteria: twenty-two (22) feet in length;
eight (8) feet in width; or seven (7) feet, six (6) inches in height, and
otherwise falls within one of the following classifications of vehicles:
   (A)   Vans, except “step vans”, unless bearing commercial registration and
plates or used for commercial purposes.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles, bearing RV registration and plates, but not
exceeding the size limitations provided for above.
   (C)   Vehicles bearing B registration plates used for personal noncommercial
purposes only. Vehicles shall be deemed to fall within this exception if they
are not used in relation to a trade or business and do not bear an affiliation
logo or name, and are not commercially enhanced in any manner.
For the purposes of this section, an oversized vehicle is defined as a vehicle
which exceeds any of the following size criteria: twenty-two (22) feet in
length, eight (8) feet in width or seven (7) feet, six (6) inches in height;
and “commercially enhanced” shall include without limitation such add-ons as a
snow plow, ladder rack, tool boxes, bar lights. (Ord. 2022-09, 5-5-2022)
10-5-11: BOAT AND TRAILER PARKING:
It is unlawful to park any trailer, boat and/or trailer on any street or
parkway at any time. (Ord. 1980-11, 8-7-1980)
10-5-12: PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   (A)   Reserved Parking For Single-Unit Dwellings In Residentially Zoned
Districts: It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle within an area
delineated by two (2) white lines and a sign reading "Reserved Handicapped
Parking" within the Village, except for the individual handicapped person for
whom said space has been reserved pursuant to the provisions of this section.
Reserved parking for handicapped persons shall be established, maintained and
terminated in accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   Reserved parking shall be allowed at curbside of a public street
within the Municipal public street system located within the R1 or R2 Single-
Unit Dwelling Residential Zoning District.
      2.   The reserved space for handicapped parking shall be located in front
of the individual's residence and as close as is possible to the frontage of
the residential property where the handicapped person resides, but it shall not
be permitted in such a manner as to unduly harm or cause hardship to other
residents residing in the area. No more than one reserved space shall be
permitted per home or dwelling unit and the dimensions of the reserved space
shall be determined upon application, but shall not exceed twenty five feet
(25') in length parallel to the curb.
      3.   The space reserved for handicapped parking shall be designated by a
sign reading "Reserved Handicapped Parking for [Applicable Street Number]" and
shall be delineated by two (2) painted lines at either end of the space.
      4.   Application for the designation of a reserved parking space for a
handicapped person shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk, who shall
record the request and forward it to the Director of Police Services. The
Director of Police Services shall review, or cause to be reviewed, the area in
question, making any investigations deemed necessary, and reporting in writing
to the President and Board of Trustees any recommendation as to approval or
denial of the request and the reasons upon which any recommendation is based.
      5.   Any application submitted shall be accompanied by a doctor's
certificate evidencing the existence of the handicap or infirmity, a statement
as to whether the handicap or infirmity is permanent or temporary, and a copy
of the State registration showing the issuance by the State of Illinois of a
vehicle registration for a handicapped person or a disabled veteran. Upon
receipt of the recommendation of the Director of Police Services, the Board of
Trustees shall determine whether to grant or deny the request for the reserved
handicapped parking, and if granted, shall by ordinance provide for the
establishment of the reserved space specifying the dimensions, location and
time limit for the grant.
      6.   Reserved handicapped parking spaces shall be renewed, no less than
once every two (2) years, by April 1 upon submission of a renewal application
accompanied by a doctor's certificate. Renewal shall be done in odd numbered
years for odd numbered addresses and even numbered years for even numbered
addresses. If a renewal application is not renewed, not requested, not returned
or if further investigation by the Director of Police Services determines the
applicant is no longer eligible for a reserved handicapped parking space, the
Village Clerk shall recommend to the Village Board that the signs designating
the reserved handicapped parking space be removed. The Village Clerk shall
promulgate any necessary supplemental rules and regulations concerning the
issuance and renewal of reserved handicapped parking space applications.
      7.   It shall be the affirmative duty of the person with a permanent
disability, or a resident household member to notify the Village Clerk
immediately if the disabled individual no longer meets the requirements under
this chapter, no longer resides at the residence, or no longer needs reserved
parking. Upon such notification, the Director of Police Services, or his
designee, shall cause the signs creating the reserved handicap parking area to
be removed. Additionally, in the event a disabled person or household member
violates the conditions of this policy or is deemed to have abused the
privileges afforded by this policy, the Director of Police Services may remove
and revoke the parking privileges upon thirty (30) days written notice to the
disabled person or, if applicable, the household member being afforded the
privileges.
      8.   The parking privileges afforded under this section are limited to
residential streets under the exclusive control of the Village of River Grove,
and shall not apply to any street which is under the exclusive or joint control
of the County of Cook or the State of Illinois. Additionally, the privileges
afforded under this policy are limited to the residential street on which an
applicant or family member resides and extends to no other right-of-way within
the Village of River Grove.
      9.   All restricted handicap parking spaces shall be reserved on an
exclusive basis and may be used by only the qualified disabled person or family
for which the parking space was created. The applicant securing the parking
space shall have the exclusive right to use the designated parking space.
      10.   This section for reserved handicapped parking shall be subordinate
to other Village ordinances where a conflict between this section and any other
Village ordinance occurs.
   (B)   General Provisions Regarding The Use Of Motor Vehicles: The provisions
of this section shall apply to the operation and parking of a motor vehicle by
a handicapped person and shall govern when a conflict exists between this
section and any other provision of this chapter:
      1.   The term "handicapped person" as used in this section shall have the
same meaning and definition as given in the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      2.   A motor vehicle, bearing registration plates issued to a handicapped
person or a special decal or device so issued pursuant to the provisions of the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code or similar code if on a motor vehicle registered in
another jurisdiction, shall be exempt from the payment of parking meter fees
and exempt from any statute or ordinance imposing time limitations on parking,
except limitations of one-half (1/2) hour or less, on any street or highway
zone or any parking lot or parking place which is owned, leased or owned and
leased by the Village; but, such vehicle shall be subject to the laws which
prohibit parking in "no stopping" and "no standing" zones in front of or near
fire hydrants, driveways, public building entrances and exits, bus stops and
loading areas and is prohibited from parking where the motor vehicle
constitutes a traffic hazard, whereby such motor vehicle shall be moved at the
instruction and request of a law enforcement officer to a location designated
by the officer. Parking privileges granted by this subsection are strictly
limited to the person to whom the special registration plates, special decal or
device was issued and to qualified operators acting under express direction
while the disabled or handicapped person is present.
      3.   No person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle
regardless of the presence of a device, decal or plate designating the vehicle
as being occupied or in use for the benefit of a disabled or handicapped person
where an official sign controlling such area expressly prohibits parking at any
time or during certain hours.
      4.   The Village, through the Office of the Village Clerk, undertakes the
issuance of special decals for handicapped parking in accordance with the
provisions and procedures established in the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code
relative to special decals for handicapped parking. Accordingly:
         (a) It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle which is not
properly displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with
disabilities, in any parking place, reserved, by the posting of an official
sign as designated under section 11-301 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, for
persons with disabilities. It shall be further unlawful to park any motor
vehicle in a designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically
reserved for persons with disabilities.
         (b) The official parking decal or device must be displayed, either by
hanging the decal or device from the rearview mirror or placing it on the
dashboard of the vehicle in clear view. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a
disability license plate or a parking decal or device containing the
international symbol of access issued to persons with disabilities by any local
authority, state, district, territory or foreign country shall be recognized by
the Village as valid and that vehicle shall receive the same parking privileges
as residents of the State of Illinois.
         (c) An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under section 3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2 of the Illinois Vehicle Code or to
a disabled veteran under section 3-609 of the Illinois Vehicle Code shall be in
further violation of this section if: 1) the person using the disability
license plate or parking decal or device is not the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device or is not transporting the
authorized holder of the disability license plate or parking decal or device to
or from the parking location and 2) the person uses the disability license
plate or parking decal or device to exercise any privileges granted through the
disability license plate or parking decals or devices under this Code or
Illinois Vehicle Code.
         (d) Any person or authority owning or operating any public or private
off street parking facility may, after notifying the River Grove Police
Department, remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place
of safety any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a
person with disabilities which does not display person with disabilities
registration plates or a special decal or device as required under this
section.
         (e) Any person found liable or guilty of violating the provisions of
subsection (B)4(a) of this section shall be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for
each offense, in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or
storage of any motor vehicle removed and stored pursuant to 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1301.3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, it
shall not be a defense to a charge under this section that either the sign
posted pursuant to this section or the intended accessible parking place does
not comply with the technical requirements of section 11-301 of the Vehicle
Code, department regulations, or this subsection (B)4 if a reasonable person
would be made aware by the sign or notice on or near the parking place that the
place is reserved for a person with disabilities.
         (f) Any person found liable or guilty of violating the provisions of
subsection (B)4(c) of this section shall be fined no less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
         (g) As used in this subsection (B)4, "authorized holder" means an
individual issued a disability license plate under section 3-616, an individual
issued a parking decal or device under section 11-1301.2 or an individual
issued a disabled veteran's license plate under section 3-609 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   (C)   Limitations And Restrictions On Parking For Handicapped Individuals:
The parking privileges afforded to handicapped individuals under subsection (A)
of this section are subject to the following limitations and restrictions:
      1.   Private Driveway Disqualification: The reserved and restricted
residential street parking privileges provided under this chapter shall not be
applicable to any household or any person residing in the household if any
household member owns, rents or has regular use of property that includes a
private driveway that provides convenient access to the dwelling of the person
with a permanent disability. This determination shall be made by the Director
of Police Services or his designee.
      2.   Garage Or Parking Area Disqualification: The reserved and restricted
residential parking privileges provided under this chapter shall not be
applicable to any household or any person residing in the household if any
household member owns, rents or has access to a carport or garage that provides
convenient access to the dwelling of the person with a permanent disability.
This determination shall be made by the Director of Police Services, or his
designee.
      3.   Limitation On Restricted Handicap Parking Space: The number of
reserved and restricted handicap parking spaces on any residential street shall
not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the available parking spaces on each side
of a street, and no more than one parking space may be designated as reserved
for handicap parking for any single-unit dwelling. (Ord. 2017-14, 9-21-2017)
10-5-13: ELECTRIC VEHICLES 1 :
   (A)   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    ELECTRIC VEHICLE: Means a battery-powered electric vehicle operated solely
by electricity or a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle that operates on
electricity and gasoline and has a battery that can be recharged from an
external source.
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION: Means any facility or equipment that is
used to charge a battery or other energy storage device of an electric vehicle.
   (B)   Prohibited Activities: It shall be prohibited to park a non-electric
vehicle in an electric vehicle charging station or parking area designated for
use by electric vehicles, including an electric vehicle charging station on any
private or public off-street parking facility. A person may park only an
electric vehicle in an electric vehicle charging station space designated for
use by electric vehicles.
   (C)   Non-Electric Vehicle Removal: Any person or local authority owning or
operating any public or private off-street parking facility may, after
notifying the River Grove Police or Triton College Police, remove or cause to
be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety any non-electric
vehicle parked within an electric vehicle charging station space designated for
use by electric vehicles.
   (D)   Signage: Any person or local authority owning or operating any public
or private off-street parking facility shall post adequate signage or notices
at electric vehicle charging stations or designated parking spaces so as to
inform a person that the particular space is reserved for electric vehicles
only.
   (E)   No Defense: It shall not be a defense to a charge under this section
that the sign or notice posted at the electric vehicle charging station or the
designated parking space does not comply with applicable rules, regulations, or
local ordinances, if a reasonable person would be made aware by the sign or
notice on or near the parking space that the space is reserved for electric
vehicles.
   (F)   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of
subsection (B) of this section shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) in
addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal and/or storage of
the non- electric vehicle. (Ord. 2017-19, 12-7-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-1308.
CHAPTER 5.1
TOWING AND IMMOBILIZATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES PROGRAM
SECTION:
10-5.1-1: Implementation Of Vehicle Immobilization Program
10-5.1-2: Immobilization List; Accumulated Citations
10-5.1-3: Notice Requirements
10-5.1-4: Notice Of Liability For Damage/Theft To Restraint
10-5.1-5: Towing And Impoundment
10-5.1-6: Hearings
10-5.1-7: Release Of Immobilized Vehicle
10-5.1-8: Unauthorized Removal Of Immobilizing Device Or Immobilized Vehicle
10-5.1-1: IMPLEMENTATION OF VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION PROGRAM:
The chief of police is authorized to direct and supervise a program of vehicle
immobilization as provided in this chapter. The program of vehicle
immobilization shall provide for the immobilization of any eligible vehicle
upon the public way by placement of a restraint in such a manner as to prevent
its operation, or if the eligible vehicle is parked or left in violation of any
provision of this title concerning obstruction of traffic, access or egress
from driveways, alleys, fire lanes, hydrants, or police or fire stations, or in
any place where it constitutes an obstruction or a hazard, or where it impedes
workers during such operations as snow removal, the chief of police may cause
the eligible vehicle to be towed at the owner's expense to a vehicle pound or
relocated to a legal parking place and there restrained. All fines in relation
to the relocation must be paid before the vehicle can be released. (Ord. 2011-
24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.1-2: IMMOBILIZATION LIST; ACCUMULATED CITATIONS:
A vehicle shall be eligible for immobilization as provided herein any time
after inclusion of its state registration number on an immobilization list. A
vehicle's state registration number shall be included on an immobilization list
only if:
   (A)   The registered owner of the vehicle has accumulated five (5) parking
citations in the village on which no payment has been made or appearance filed
within the time specified by the citations; and
   (B)   At least twenty one (21) days prior to placing the registration plate
number of the vehicle on the immobilization eligibility list, notice of
impending vehicle immobilization has been sent to the registered owner, first
class mail, postage prepaid, at the address of the registered owner recorded
with the secretary of state or, in the case of a vehicle bearing a registration
number of a state other than Illinois, at the address of the registered owner
recorded in that state's registry of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011; amd. Ord. 2019-32, 11-7-2019)
10-5.1-3: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
The notice required in section
10-5.1-2 of this chapter shall state the name and address of the registered
owner, the state registration number of the vehicle, the nature of the
ordinances violated and the numbers and issue dates of the outstanding
citations. The notice shall also advise that a person may challenge the
validity of notice of impending vehicle immobilization by appearing in person
and submitting evidence which would conclusively disprove liability, such as
the following:
   (A)   That the person was not the owner or lessee of the vehicle on the date
or dates the citations were issued; or
   (B)   That the fines or penalties for the violations cited in the report
were paid; or
   (C)   That the registered owner has not accumulated five (5) or more parking
citations which are unpaid, not adjudicated, or for which no appearance has
been filed.
(Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011; amd. Ord. 2019-32, 11-7-2019)
10-5.1-4: NOTICE OF LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE/THEFT TO RESTRAINT:
   (A)   Upon immobilization of an eligible vehicle, a notice shall be affixed
to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. Such notice shall warn that the vehicle
is immobilized and that any attempt to move the vehicle may result in its
damage.
   (B)   The notice shall also state that the unauthorized removal of or damage
to the immobilizing restraint is a violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/16-1 and 21-1 and section 10-5.1-8 of this chapter. The notice shall also
provide information specifying the procedure to have the immobilizing restraint
device removed from the vehicle, and how the registered owner may obtain an
immobilization hearing pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.1-5: TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Except where the vehicle is otherwise subject to towing, if the
immobilizing restraint has not been released within seventy-two (72) hours of
its placement, the restraint shall be released, and the vehicle towed and
impounded.
   (B)   Within ten (10) days after a vehicle has been impounded, notice of
impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
registered owner of the vehicle at the address to which the notice was mailed.
The notice shall state that the owner has the right to a post immobilization
and post towing hearing, and that if the vehicle is not claimed within thirty
(30) days from the date of the notice, the vehicle may be sold or otherwise
disposed of in accordance with this title.
   (C)   All hearings will take place in accordance with Section
10-5.1-6 and Chapter 20 of Title 1 providing for the Administrative
Adjudication of vehicle immobilization and impoundment cases. Any order issued
after the hearing is a final administrative decision within the meaning of
Section 3-101 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Judicial review of final
administrative decisions issued after hearings regarding vehicle immobilization
and impoundment made under this Section shall be subject to the provisions of
the Illinois Administrative Review Law. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011; amd. Ord.
2021-15, 5-20-2021)
10-5.1-6: HEARINGS:
The owner of an immobilized vehicle shall have the right to a hearing to
determine whether the immobilization or any subsequent towing was erroneous, or
whether the vehicle was properly included on an immobilization list. To obtain
such a hearing, the owner must file a written demand for hearing with the River
Grove Police Department or the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator within
fourteen (14) days after issuance of the notice specified in section
10-5.1-5 of this chapter or within fourteen (14) days of the immobilization,
whichever is later. A hearing shall be conducted within seven (7) days of
receipt of a written demand for hearing unless otherwise mutually agreed by the
parties. Failure to request or attend a scheduled hearing shall be deemed a
waiver of the right to a hearing. In the event of such failure, any amount
deposited pursuant to section
10-5.1-7 of this chapter shall be forfeited. A hearing provided by this section
shall not determine the validity of or otherwise adjudicate any citation or
notice of parking violation issued relative to the immobilized vehicle. (Ord.
2011-24, 11-17-2011; amd. Ord. 2021-15, 5-20-2021)
10-5.1-7: RELEASE OF IMMOBILIZED VEHICLE:
   (A)   Prior to a hearing on the validity of the immobilization as provided
in section
10-5.1-6 of this chapter, the owner of an immobilized vehicle and/or other
authorized person shall be permitted to secure release of the vehicle by:
      1.   Paying the immobilization, towing and storage fees, if applicable;
and
      2.   Paying all the fines and penalties, if any, on the outstanding
complaints or citations specified in the notice of impending vehicle
immobilization, or arranging for the payment as approved by the chief of
police.
   (B)   The fine for immobilization shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
The fine for towing subsequent to immobilization shall not exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) to cover the cost having the vehicle towed and removed. Any
unusual costs incurred by the village or its agent shall be the responsibility
of the registered owner. In addition to the fees due the Village, the owner
shall be required to pay any fees that may be applicable for the towing and
storing of the vehicle. Such towing and storage fees shall be paid to the tow
company at the prevailing rate at the garage, yard or parking lot at which said
vehicle is stored. The aforementioned fees shall not be applicable in the event
that the immobilization and/or subsequent towing have been determined to be
erroneous. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011; amd. Ord. 2021-15, 5-20-2021)
10-5.1-8: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF IMMOBILIZING DEVICE OR IMMOBILIZED VEHICLE:
   (A)   It is unlawful to:
      1.   Relocate or tow any vehicle restrained by an immobilizing device
without the approval of the chief of police, or his or her designee.
      2.   Remove or attempt to remove an immobilizing device without the
approval of the chief of police, or his or her designee.
   (B)   The unauthorized removal of an immobilized vehicle or the unauthorized
removal of an immobilizing device from a vehicle shall be subject to a penalty
of no less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Any person having
possession of an unlawfully removed immobilization device shall be subject to a
penalty of no less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day the
person fails to return the immobilization device to the village. (Ord. 2011-24,
11-17-2011)
CHAPTER 5.2
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-5.2-1: Definitions
10-5.2-2: Violations Authorizing Motor Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment
10-5.2-3: Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicles
10-5.2-4: Exceptions To Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment
10-5.2-5: Posting A Bond
10-5.2-6: Preliminary Hearing
10-5.2-7: Final Hearing
10-5.2-8: Unclaimed Vehicles
10-5.2-9: Liability For Penalty And Costs
10-5.2-10: Appointment Of Hearing Officer
10-5.2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
COMMISSION OR ATTEMPTED COMMISSION OF A CLASS A MISDEMEANOR: Any violation of
an Illinois statute carrying a maximum penalty of imprisonment for up to three
hundred sixty four (364) days and/or a fine of up to two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00). Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the phrase
"class A misdemeanor" shall be used in contrast to and at the exclusion of
lesser offenses classified under Illinois law as class B and class C
misdemeanors. The terms "class A misdemeanor", "class B misdemeanor", and
"class C misdemeanor" shall have the meaning assigned to each by article 4.5 of
the uniform code of corrections, 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-4.5-5 et
seq.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any substance as defined and included in the schedules
contained in article II of the Illinois controlled substance act 1 , as amended
from time to time, and cannabis as defined in section 3 of the cannabis control
act 2 , as amended from time to time. A violation of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 570/401, "manufacture or delivery of a controlled substance", of the
Illinois controlled substances act, as amended, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
570/401.1, "controlled substance trafficking", of the Illinois controlled
substances act, as amended, or 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/402,
"possession of a controlled substance", of the Illinois controlled substances
act, as amended.
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE: Any violation as defined in section 11-501 of the
Illinois vehicle code 1 , as amended.
DRIVING WHILE LICENSE, PERMIT OR PRIVILEGE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
SUSPENDED OR REVOKED: Any violation as defined in section 6-303 of the Illinois
vehicle code 2 , as amended, except a person whose driver's license, permit or
privilege to operate a motor vehicle is suspended only for a violation of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/13 et seq., "the emissions inspection law", of the
Illinois vehicle code, as amended.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Any equipment, product, and/or materials as defined in
section 2 of the drug paraphernalia act 3 , as amended.
HEARING OFFICER: A licensed attorney.
OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT A VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE: A violation of
section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code 4 , as amended from time to time,
where the driver has either never been issued a valid driver's license, or the
period of expiration of a previously issued driver's license is greater than
one year and has not been suspended or revoked pursuant to 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-303, as amended.
OWNER OF RECORD: The record titleholder to a motor vehicle.
POSSESSION OR TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOL: Any violation as defined in section
11-502(a), (b) Illinois vehicle code 5 , as amended.
SOLICITATION FOR A PROSTITUTE: A violation of section 11-15 of the criminal
code of 1961 6 , as amended.
SOLICITATION OF A SEXUAL ACT: A violation of section 11-14.1 of the criminal
code of 1961 7 , as amended.
UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS: A violation of sections 24-1, 24-1.2, 24-1.5 and/or
24-3.1 of the criminal code of 1961 8 , as amended. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 570/101 et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 550/3.
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
3 3. 720 ILCS 600/2.
4 4. 625 ILCS 5/6-101.
5 5. 625 ILCS 5/11-502(a), (b).
6 6. 720 ILCS 5/11-15.
7 7. 720 ILCS 5/11-14.1.
8 8. 720 ILCS 5/24-1, 5/24-1.2, 5/24-1.5 and/or 5/24-3.1.
10-5.2-2: VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING MOTOR VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
A motor vehicle operated with the permission, express or implied, of the owner
of record, that is used in connection with: a) the commission or attempted
commission of any felony offense; or used in connection with b) the commission
or attempted commission of a class A misdemeanor, including, but not limited
to, the acts or offenses enumerated in this section; or a motor vehicle
operated in connection with c) the commission or attempted commission of any
lesser offenses (class B or class C misdemeanors or petty offenses), insofar as
such lesser offenses are explicitly enumerated herein, shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment by the village, and the owner of record of said vehicle
shall be liable to the village for an administrative fee in addition to any
towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   The possession or delivery of a controlled substance or drug
paraphernalia;
   (B)   1. Driving under the influence;
      2.   If a person under twenty one (21) years of age is requested to
submit to a chemical test or tests of blood, breath, or urine for the purpose
of determining the alcohol content of the person's blood if arrested, as
evidenced by the issuance of a uniform traffic ticket for any violation of the
Illinois vehicle code or a similar provision of a local ordinance, pursuant to
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.8(a), and after being warned by the law
enforcement officer of the potential consequences in accordance with 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.8(c), the person refuses to submit to the
test, or submission to the test results in an alcohol concentration of more
than 0.00;
   (C)   Unlawful possession or transportation of alcohol, including, without
limitation, the unlawful possession of alcoholic liquor by a minor as
prohibited by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-20(a);
   (D)   1. Driving while license, permit or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle is suspended or revoked;
      2.   Driving when the vehicle registration has been canceled, suspended
or revoked contrary to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-702, unless such
suspension is for noninsurance;
   (E)   Operation of a motor vehicle without a valid driver's license;
   (F)   The unlawful use of weapons;
   (G)   Solicitation of a sexual act;
   (H)   Solicitation for a prostitute;
   (I)   Disorderly conduct, including the commission of any act in such
unreasonable manner as to provoke, make, or aid in making a breach of peace,
any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or display which, under
the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger of a breach of peace or
imminent threat of violence, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-1, or any
similar state statute or local ordinance;
   (J)   Falsely representing oneself as a police officer in violation of 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
   (K)   Commits retail theft as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
16-25, regardless of the value of stolen merchandise;
   (L)   Operating a motor vehicle not covered by a liability insurance policy
or without evidence of same in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/7-601 and 5/7-602;
   (M)   Leaving the scene of a motor vehicle accident involving personal
injury or death;
   (N)   Reckless homicide or vehicular homicide;
   (O)   Operating a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant has been
issued by a circuit court in Illinois for failing to answer any charge covered
by this section, whether specifically enumerated or not;
   (P)   Attempting to flee or elude police officers;
   (Q)   Speeding twenty six (26) miles per hour or more over the applicable
speed limit, as set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-601.5(a), or
speeding thirty five (35) miles per hour or more over the applicable speed
limit as set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-601.5(b);
   (R)   Possessing illegal fireworks in violation of this code or 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 35/2;
   (S)   Driving recklessly in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-503;
   (T)   Street racing or aggravated street racing in violation of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-506;
   (U)   Whenever towing or removal is necessary as an incident to arrest;
   (V)   Commission or attempted commission of any felony offense not
enumerated herein; or
   (W)   Commission or attempted commission of any class A misdemeanor not
enumerated herein. (Ord. 2014-12, 5-15-2014)
10-5.2-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall cause the motor vehicle to be towed to a facility controlled by the
village or its agents. When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall
notify any person identifying himself or herself as the owner of the vehicle,
or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of
the vehicle owner's right to request a preliminary hearing as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.2-4: EXCEPTIONS TO VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Where a police officer has probable cause to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, such
police officer shall cause the motor vehicle to be seized and impounded in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter, unless all of the
following circumstances are determined to be present in the sole discretion of
the police officer:
      1.   The police officer determines that seizure and impoundment is
neither necessary nor reasonable under the circumstances because the owner of
the motor vehicle was not operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
traffic stop;
      2.   The owner of the motor vehicle was not involved in any manner with
the commission of any of the crimes or other acts set forth in section 10-5.2-
2 of this chapter;
      3.   The owner of the motor vehicle is present on the scene during the
initial stop or arrives on the scene during the course of the traffic stop
without affecting any delay to the police officer;
      4.   The owner of the motor vehicle furnishes proof of valid, current
motor vehicle insurance as required by the Illinois vehicle code;
      5.   The owner of the motor vehicle furnishes a valid, current driver's
license;
      6.   The owner of the motor vehicle is willing to remove, and is capable
of safely and lawfully removing the motor vehicle; and
      7.   The motor vehicle is not needed as evidence of the commission of the
underlying infraction enumerated in section 10-5.2-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   In such cases as described in subsection (A) of this section, the
police officer is vested with sole discretion to determine if, under the
totality of the circumstances, the motor vehicle is capable of being operated
in a safe manner by the properly licensed owner of the motor vehicle. If the
police officer so concludes, then a motor vehicle shall not be impounded, but
rather shall be released into the custody of the owner in accordance with the
regulations and procedures specified herein. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.2-5: POSTING A BOND:
An impounded vehicle shall be released to the owner of record if a bond in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is posted with the village along with
payment in full by the owner of record of all towing and storage costs. If a
penalty is imposed for a violation of this chapter, the bond will be forfeited
to the village; provided, in the event that a violation of this chapter is not
proven, the bond shall be returned to the person posting the bond. All bond
money posted pursuant to this chapter shall be held by the village until the
hearing officer issues a decision, or, if there is a judicial review, until a
reviewing court issues a final decision. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.2-6: PRELIMINARY HEARING:
Where the owner of a motor vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter
requests a preliminary hearing within twelve (12) hours after the seizure of
the motor vehicle, the police chief or any supervising officer must conduct a
preliminary hearing within twenty four (24) hours after the request for a
preliminary hearing is received by the village; provided that if the date for
the hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the preliminary
hearing will be held on the next business day following the Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday. For purposes of this section, the following shall apply:
   (A)   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary hearing.
   (B)   The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the hearing, and
hearsay testimony will be allowed, and shall be admissible.
   (C)   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the police chief or
supervising officer determines that there is probable cause to believe that the
vehicle was used as hereinabove provided in section 10-5.2-2 of this chapter,
he/she shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle, unless the owner
of the vehicle posts a cash bond with the village in the amount of five hundred
dollars ($500.00), plus the towing and storage costs.
   (D)   If the police chief or supervising officer determines that there is
not probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used as hereinabove provided
in section 10-5.2-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle shall be returned to the
owner of record of the vehicle without any penalty or other costs. (Ord. 2011-
24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.2-7: FINAL HEARING:
   (A)   Notice Of Hearing: Within forty five (45) days after a motor vehicle
is seized and impounded pursuant to this chapter, the village shall notify the
owner of record of the vehicle of the date, time and location of a final
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner of record, as shown on the records of the Illinois
secretary of state. Notice by certified mail need not be given when the owner
of the vehicle has been personally served with notice, in written form, of the
time, date and location of the hearing.
   (B)   Requesting A Hearing: A person whose vehicle is seized pursuant to
this chapter may apply for a hearing to assert that he, she or the person
driving the vehicle was not in violation of this chapter at the time the
vehicle was seized. The application for a hearing shall be made no later than
seven (7) days after notice has been given either personally or by certified
mail, whichever is applicable in the given circumstance. The application to
request a hearing shall be provided by the village at the time notice is given.
The bond shall be forfeited in the event a hearing is not requested as provided
for in this chapter. After an application for hearing is received by the
village, a subsequent notice shall be sent to the person that requested the
hearing notifying that person of the date, time and location of the hearing.
   (C)   Hearing: For purposes of this section, the following shall apply at an
owner's final hearing:
      1.   Unless continued by order of the hearing officer, the hearing shall
be held within sixty (60) days after the motor vehicle was seized.
      2.   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing.
      3.   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer
determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used as
hereinabove provided in section 10-5.2-2 of this chapter, the hearing officer
shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle until the owner of the
vehicle pays to the village a penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00), plus the towing and storage costs. The penalty and costs shall be a
debt due to the village.
      4.   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing
officer shall enter an order of default in favor of the village, which order
shall require the payment to the village of an administrative penalty of five
hundred dollars ($500.00), in addition to any towing and storage costs.
      5.   If the hearing officer determines that the vehicle was not used as
provided in section 10-5.2-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle shall be
returned to the owner of record of the vehicle without any penalty or other
costs, or, if a cash bond had previously been posted, the cash bond shall be
returned. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.2-8: UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle that is not claimed within thirty (30) days after
the expiration of time in which the owner of record may seek judicial review of
the action of the village under this chapter, or the time at which a final
judgment is rendered in favor of the village by a court of proper jurisdiction,
or the time at which a final administrative decision is rendered against an
owner of record who is in default, may be disposed of as an abandoned or
unclaimed vehicle, as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   If the penalty and towing and storage costs are not paid within eighty
(80) days after a penalty is imposed pursuant to this chapter, the vehicle
shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be disposed of in the manner provided
by law for the disposition of abandoned or unclaimed vehicles, unless a
petition for judicial review is filed with a court of proper jurisdiction.
Where a petition for judicial review of the hearing officer's determination is
filed and pending in a court of proper jurisdiction, the vehicle shall not be
deemed to be abandoned and shall not be sold. If the petition for judicial
review is resolved in favor of the village, the vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned and may be disposed of by the village if the penalty and towing and
storage costs are not paid within thirty (30) days after the date of the
court's order. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.2-9: LIABILITY FOR PENALTY AND COSTS:
   (A)   The owner of record of a motor vehicle that is seized or impounded
shall be liable to the village for a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
in addition to any fees for the towing and storage of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   Fees for towing and storage are established by the towing company and
not by the village, except where the motor vehicle is stored on village
property, in which case the storage cost shall be established by the village
president or chief of police.
   (C)   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall remain impounded
until the earlier of the following occurs:
      1.   The penalty is paid to the village, and all towing and storage costs
are paid to the towing company.
      2.   A bond in an amount equal to the liability of the owner as herein
provided in section 10-5.2-5 of this chapter is posted with the village and all
applicable towing and storage costs are paid to the towing company.
      3.   The vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case the vehicle shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned or
unclaimed vehicles.
      4.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner,
lienholder, or any other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of
a motor vehicle impounded under this chapter until the penalty and all towing
and storage costs applicable under this chapter have been paid in full. (Ord.
2011-24, 11-17-2011)
10-5.2-10: APPOINTMENT OF HEARING OFFICER:
The hearing officer required by this chapter shall be an administrative
adjudicator appointed by the village president for a term designated by the
village president. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-17-2011)
CHAPTER 6
ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Certain Illinois Vehicle Code Sections Adopted
10-6-2: Automated Traffic Law Enforcement System
10-6-3: Possession Of Medical Cannabis Or Adult Use Cannabis In A Motor Vehicle
10-6-1: CERTAIN ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE SECTIONS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the Village and made part of this code and
incorporated herein for the purpose of regulating and controlling traffic on
the streets of the Village, the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et
seq., as amended from time to time. The adoption of the Illinois Vehicle Code
shall not preclude the Village from charging any person in violation of this
chapter under other provisions of this code and using the penalty provisions
contained in Chapter 1 of Title 11 of this code. Not less than three (3) copies
of such law are on file in the office of the Village Clerk and are available
for public use, inspection and examination.
(Ord. 1992-12, 8-6-1992; amd. Ord. 2019-26, 8-15-2019)
10-6-2: AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM:
An automated traffic law enforcement system shall be installed, maintained, and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
administration and enforcement of the automated traffic law enforcement system:
    AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device within the village with
one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light
signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection
against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of section 11-
306 of the Illinois vehicle code ("code"), 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
306, or similar violation of this village municipal code.
   DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in
section 11-306 of the code.
   LESSEE: The natural person or entity appearing as the lessee on any lease of
a motor vehicle.
   NO TURN ON RED: Where the motor vehicle comes to a complete stop and does
not enter the intersection as defined by section 1-132 of the code, during the
cycle of the red signal indication unless one or more pedestrians are present,
even if the motor vehicle stops at a point past a stop line or crosswalk where
a driver is required to stop, as specified in subsection (c) of section 11-306
of the code or this section.
   OWNER: The natural person or entity appearing on the motor vehicle
registration records of the vehicle's state of registration.
   RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or, a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor
vehicle.
   TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed as such and shall
have the following additional powers: adopt, distribute and process automated
traffic law violation notices and other notices required by this section,
collect money paid as fines and penalties, operate the automated traffic law
enforcement system, and make certified reports to the secretary of state as
required.
   (B)   Installation Of An Automated Traffic Law Enforcement System: The
director of police or his or her designee is directed to install and maintain
or contract with a qualified vendor to install and maintain an automated
traffic law enforcement system which meets the specifications of section 11-
208.6 of the Illinois vehicle code.
   (C)   Payment To Vendor: In the event the director of police or his or her
designee enters into a contract with a qualified vendor to install and maintain
an automated traffic law enforcement system, payment to the vendor shall be
based solely on the value of the equipment and services provided by the vendor.
   (D)   Violations: It shall be a violation of this section for a vehicle to
disregard a traffic control device or turn on red in violation of section 11-
306 of the code. All violations must be reviewed and approved by a law
enforcement officer of the village.
   (E)   Defenses: The following may be considered defenses by the hearing
officer for a violation of subsection (D) of this section:
      1.   No sign was posted alerting approaching motorists that the
intersection is monitored by an automated traffic law enforcement system or the
posted sign was obstructed and the obstruction is one the village is
responsible for removing.
      2.   The motor vehicle cited or registration plates of the cited vehicle
were stolen before the violation occurred, and, thus, the vehicle or the
plates, as the case may be, were not in the possession of or under the control
of the owner or lessee at the time of the violation. To demonstrate that the
motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen before the violation
occurred and were not under the control or possession of the owner at the time
of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a report concerning the
stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed with a law enforcement
agency in a timely manner.
      3.   The motor vehicle entered the intersection against a red light
signal at the direction of a law enforcement officer or in order to yield right
of way to an emergency vehicle.
      4.   The motor vehicle entered the intersection against a red light
signal in order to avoid a collision and a timely report to that effect was
made to the local law enforcement agency.
      5.   The motor vehicle was part of funeral procession at the time it
entered the intersection against a red light signal.
      6.   A uniform traffic citation or similar citation was issued by a law
enforcement officer for entering an intersection against a red light signal in
apparent violation of section 11-306 of the Illinois vehicle code, provided the
owner or lessee tenders a legible copy of the citation and the citation
identifies the same motor vehicle as was identified by the automated traffic
law enforcement system.
   (F)   Notice Of Violation: When the automated traffic law enforcement system
records a motor vehicle entering an intersection in violation of section 14.261
of the code or this section, the village shall issue a written notice of
violation to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be
delivered by U.S. mail within thirty (30) days after the Illinois secretary of
state notifies the village of the identity of the registered owner or lessee of
the vehicle, and in no event later than ninety (90) days following the
violation. The village shall only be required to notify a lessee if the leasing
company/lessor provides the lessee's name by an affidavit and a copy of the
lease within sixty (60) days of the notice's issuance. If the driver
information is not provided within sixty (60) days, the leasing company/lessor
may be found liable. If any notice to an address is returned as undeliverable,
a second notice shall be sent to the last known address recorded in a United
States post office approved database of the owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle. The second notice shall be made by first class mail postage prepaid.
      1.   Review Of Image: A notice of violation associated with an automated
traffic law violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image
by the traffic compliance administrator, who shall inspect the image and
determine whether the motor vehicle was being operated in violation of section
14.261 of the code or this section, or whether one of the defenses enumerated
in section 14.262 of the code or subsection (E) of this section is visibly
applicable upon inspection. Upon determination that the recorded image captures
a violation and that no defense applies, the notice of violation shall be
served upon the registered vehicle owner in the manner provided for above. The
traffic compliance administrator shall retain a copy of all violation notices,
recorded images and other correspondence mailed to the owner of the vehicle.
Each notice of violation shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in
the notice and is admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of the
above noted statutory and local provisions and shall be prima facie evidence of
a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in
this section or the code.
      2.   Contents Of Notice Of Violation: The notice of violation shall
include the following information:
         (a) The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the secretary of state, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States post office approved database;
         (b) The make (only if discernible) and registration number of the
motor vehicle involved in the violation;
         (c) The violation charged;
         (d) The location where the violation occurred;
         (e) The date and time of the violation;
         (f) A copy of the recorded images;
         (g) The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (14 days from the date of issuance), if a hearing is not
requested, and a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a
final disposition of the violation;
         (h) A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date
noted may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
         (i) The amount of the late fee;
         (j) A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified will
result in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension
of driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle;
         (k) A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation;
         (l) A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the
fine or challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative hearing;
and
         (m) A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested.
   (G)   Hearing: The owner of a vehicle being operated in violation of section
14.261 of the code or this section may request a hearing by the "respond by
date" on the notice of violation (14 days from the date of issuance), to
challenge the evidence or set forth an applicable defense. The notice of
violation shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is
admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of section 14.261 of the code
or this section. The notice of violation shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in
section 14.262 of the code or subsection (E) of this section.
      1.   Failure To Appear: The owner's failure to appear at the hearing will
result in a finding of liability. In the event of a failure to appear, a
"findings, decision and order" letter will be sent to the owner. The owner's
failure to pay the amount by the date specified in that letter will result in a
final determination.
      2.   Nonresidents: Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle is not a resident of the village of River Grove but seeks to contest
the merits of the alleged violation, such person may contest the charges using
the same available defenses as stated above, but rather than attend the
administrative hearing, they may submit any and all documentary evidence to the
traffic compliance administrator no later than the hearing date, together with
a written statement reflecting that they are nonresidents of the village of
River Grove. The traffic compliance administrator shall forward all timely
submitted materials to the hearing officer for review and determination.
   (H)   Final Determination: A final determination of an automated traffic law
violation(s) liability shall occur:
      1.   Following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty
after the hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability within
the required twenty five (25) days and the exhaustion of or the failure to
exhaust any administrative review procedures hereinafter set forth; or
      2.   Where a person fails to appear at a prior requested administrative
hearing provided to contest the alleged standing, parking or compliance
regulation violation(s) on the date and at the time and place specified in a
prior served or mailed notice, or fails to appear at the hearing for an
automated traffic law violation on the date and at the time and place specified
in a prior mailed notice. The hearing officer's determination of vehicular
standing, parking, compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s)
liability shall become final upon the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust
any administrative or judicial review procedures hereinafter set forth:
         (a) Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination,
or
         (b) Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition without a
filing having been made.
   (I)   Notice Of Determination Of Liability: A determination of automated
traffic law violation liability shall occur following failure to pay the fine
or penalty, or to contest the alleged violation within fourteen (14) days of
the notice of violation. Where a person fails to appear at a hearing to contest
the alleged violation in the time and manner specified in a prior mailed
notice, the hearing officer will enter findings, decision and order
determination of automated traffic law violation liability which shall become
final: 1) upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or
2) upon expiration of the period for filing such a petition without a filing
having been made. If a person appears at a hearing and is found liable or
contests the violation by mail and is found liable, the hearing officer will
enter findings, decision and order, which is a fine determination of automated
traffic law violation liability that is a fine, appealable order.
   (J)   Notice Of Final Determination: A notice of final determination shall
be sent following the fine determination of automated traffic law violation
liability and the conclusion of judicial review. The notice of final
determination shall include the following information:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine is a debt due and owing to the
village of River Grove; and
      2.   A warning that a failure to pay any fine due and owing to the
village of River Grove within fourteen (14) days may result in a petition to
the circuit court of Cook County, Illinois, to have the unpaid fine rendered as
a judgment or may result in the suspension of the person's driver's license for
failure to pay fines or penalties for five (5) or more violations under this
section.
   (K)   Petitions To Set Aside Determination: A petition to set aside
determination of an automated traffic law violation must be filed with or
mailed to the traffic control administrator within fourteen (14) days of the
date of mailing of the notice of determination of liability. The grounds for
the petition are limited to:
      1.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the
date the violation notice was issued;
      2.   The person having already paid the fine for the violation in
question; or
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely petition to set aside the determination of liability,
the hearing officer shall review the petition to determine if cause has been
shown to set aside the determination. If cause has been shown, the village
shall forward the petitioner a new hearing date on which the petitioner must
appear to present his case. The village shall notify the petitioner of the
hearing officer's decision to grant a hearing or deny the petition within
fourteen (14) days of the city's receipt.
   (L)   Notice Of Impending Driver's License Suspension: A notice of impending
driver's license suspension shall be sent to the person liable for any fine or
penalty that remains due and owing on five (5) or more violations of this
section. The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall state the
following information:
      1.   The failure to pay the fine owing within forty five (45) days of the
notice's date will result in the village of River Grove notifying the secretary
of state that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings
under section 6-306.5 of the code; and
      2.   A statement that the person may obtain a copy of the original ticket
imposing a fine by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the village of
River Grove along with a request for the copy.
The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by first
class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary of
state or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the
last known address recorded in a United States post office approved database.
   (M)   Driver's License Suspension: The traffic compliance administrator, by
certified report, shall request that the secretary of state suspend the driving
privileges of an owner of a registered vehicle who has failed to pay any fine
or penalty due and owing as a result of five (5) automated traffic violations.
The report shall be certified and contain the following:
      1.   The name, last known address as recorded with the secretary of
state, of the owner or as provided by the lessor of the cited vehicle at the
time of lease, or as recorded in a United States post office approved database
if any notice sent under this section is returned as undeliverable, and
driver's license number of the owner or person who failed to pay the fine or
penalty and the registration number of any vehicle known to be registered to
such person in a state;
      2.   The name of the municipality making the report pursuant to this
section; and
      3.   A statement that a notice of impending driver's license suspension
has been sent to the person named in the report at the address recorded with
the secretary of state or at the last address known to the owner or lessor of
the cited vehicle at the time of the lease or, if any notice sent under this
section is returned as undeliverable at the last known address recorded at a
United States post office approved database; the date on which such notice was
sent; and address to which such notice was sent.
The traffic compliance administrator shall notify the secretary of state
whenever a person named in the certified report has paid the previously
recorded fine or penalty or whenever the municipality determines that the
original report was in error. A certified copy of such notification shall also
be given upon request and at no additional charge to the person named therein.
Any person receiving notice from the secretary of state that his or her driving
privileges may be suspended at the end of a specified period may challenge the
accuracy of the certified report prepared by the traffic compliance
administrator. The person shall, within seven (7) days after having received
notice from the secretary of state, request an opportunity to speak with the
traffic compliance administrator to challenge the accuracy of the certified
report. If the traffic compliance administrator determines that the original
report was in error due to the fact that the person challenging the report was
not the owner or lessee of the vehicle or that the person has already paid
their fine for the five (5) or more automated traffic violations, the traffic
compliance administrator shall immediately notify the secretary of state of
such error in a subsequent certified report.
   (N)   Penalty: The owner (or lessee) of a motor vehicle is subject to a
penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per automated traffic law violation.
In the event that such penalty is not paid within fourteen (14) days after
service of a final determination of liability, an additional one hundred dollar
($100.00) late payment penalty shall be imposed. A penalty shall not apply if
the driver of the motor vehicle received a uniform traffic citation from a
police officer at the time of the violation. The village shall not charge court
costs or hearing fees to persons found liable after exercising their right to
appear and contest the violation at an administrative hearing. (Ord. 2011-01,
1-6-2011)
10-6-3: POSSESSION OF MEDICAL CANNABIS OR ADULT USE CANNABIS IN A MOTOR
VEHICLE:
   (A)   Possession Of Medical Cannabis In A Motor Vehicle:
      1.   No driver, who is a medical cannabis cardholder, may use medical
cannabis within the passenger area of any motor vehicle upon a highway located
within the municipal boundaries of the Village of River Grove.
      2.   No driver, who is a medical cannabis cardholder, a medical cannabis
designated caregiver, medical cannabis cultivation center agent, or dispensing
organization agent may possess medical cannabis within any area of any motor
vehicle upon a highway located within the municipal boundaries of the Village
of River Grove except in a sealed, odor-proof, and child-resistant medical
cannabis container.
      3.   No passenger, who is a medical cannabis cardholder, a medical
cannabis designated caregiver, or medical cannabis dispensing organization
agent may possess medical cannabis within any passenger area of any motor
vehicle upon a highway located within the municipal boundaries of the Village
of River Grove except in a sealed, odor-proof, and child-resistant medical
cannabis container.
      4.   Any person who violates subsections 1. through 3. of this section
shall be subject to the sentence set forth under 625 ILCS 5/11-502.1; and a
fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation.
   (B)   Possession Of Adult Use Cannabis In A Motor Vehicle.
      1.   No driver may use cannabis within the passenger area of any motor
vehicle upon a highway located within the municipal boundaries of the Village
of River Grove.
      2.   No driver may possess cannabis within any area of any motor vehicle
upon a highway located within the municipal boundaries of the Village of River
Grove except in a sealed, odor-proof, child-resistant cannabis container.
      3.   No passenger may possess cannabis within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a highway located within the municipal boundaries of the
Village of River Grove except in a sealed, odor-proof, child-resistant cannabis
container.
      4.   Any person who violates subsections 1. through 3. of this section
shall be subject to the sentence set forth under 625 ILCS 5/11-502.15; and a
fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation.
(Ord. 2019-36, 12-19-2019)
CHAPTER 7
DRIVERS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Liquor or Drugs
10-7-2: Accidents
10-7-3: Penalty
10-7-1: LIQUOR OR DRUGS:
   (A)   No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor may drive
or be in actual physical control of any vehicle within this State.
   (B)   No person who is an habitual user of or under the influence of any
narcotic drug or who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree which
renders him incapable of safely driving a vehicle may drive or be in actual
physical control of any vehicle within this State. The fact that a person
charged with a violation of this subsection (B) is or has been entitled to use
such drug under the law of this State does not constitute a defense against any
charge of violation of this subsection (B).
   (C)   Upon the trial of any action or proceeding arising out of the acts
alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
evidence of the amount of alcohol in the person's blood at the time of the act
alleged as shown by a chemical analysis of his breath, blood, urine, saliva or
other bodily substance is admissible, as provided hereinafter in this
subsection (C) and the result of any such analysis shall give rise to the
following presumptions:
      1.   If there was at the time of such analysis five hundredths percent
(0.05%) or less by weight of alcohol in the person's blood, it shall be
presumed that the person was not under the influence of intoxicating liquor;
      2.   If there was at the time of such analysis in excess of five
hundredths percent (0.05%) but less than ten hundredths percent (0.10%) by
weight of alcohol in the person's blood, such fact shall not give rise to any
presumption that the person was or was not under the influence of intoxicating
liquor, but such fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining whether such person was under the influence of intoxicating liquor;
      3.   If there was at the time of such analysis ten hundredths percent
(0.10%) or more by weight of alcohol in the person's blood, it shall be
presumed that the person was under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams of alcohol
per one hundred (100) cubic centimeters of blood. Evidence based upon a
chemical analysis of blood, urine, breath or other bodily substance shall not
be admitted unless such substance was procured and such analysis made with the
consent of the person as provided by this Chapter, whose bodily substance was
so analyzed.
The foregoing provisions of this subsection (C) shall not be construed as
limiting the introduction of any other competent evidence bearing upon the
question whether or not the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating
liquor.
   (D)   Chemical analysis of the person's blood or breath to be considered
valid under this Section must be performed according to uniform standards
adopted by the State Department of Public Health, in cooperation with the
Superintendent of State Police, and by an individual possessing a valid permit
issued by that Department for this purpose. The State Department of Public
Health is authorized to approve satisfactory techniques or methods to ascertain
the qualifications and competence of individuals to conduct such analysis and
to issue permits which shall be subject to termination or revocation at the
discretion of the State Department of Public Health.
   (E)   When an unconscious person or person otherwise incapable of refusal is
given a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under the
provisions of this Chapter, only a physician authorized to practice medicine in
all its branches, a registered nurse or other qualified person may withdraw
blood, in a manner prescribed by the Department of Public Health for the
purpose of determining the alcoholic content therein.
   (F)   The person tested may have a physician authorized to practice medicine
in all its branches, a qualified technician, chemist, registered nurse, or
other qualified person of his own choosing to administer a chemical test or
tests, at his own expense, in addition to any administered at the direction of
a law enforcement officer. The failure or inability to obtain an additional
test by a person does not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
test or tests taken at the direction of a law enforcement officer.
   (G)   Upon the request of the person who submitted to a chemical test or
tests at the request of a law enforcement officer, full information concerning
the test or tests must be made available to him or his attorney. (Ord. 1972-22,
12-28-72)
10-7-2: ACCIDENTS:
The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident with
any vehicle, person or property in such manner as to cause injury or damage
shall stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be possible, and to
give his true name and residence to the injured person or any other persons
requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or the owner of the
property damaged, and to a policeman if one is present. A report of each such
accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle concerned in it to the
Chief of Police or Police Department within twenty four (24) hours after the
accident. (6-16-61)
10-7-3: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating Section
10-7-1 of this Chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 1965-8, 4-1-65)
CHAPTER 8
PENALTY
SECTION:
10-8-1: General
10-8-2: Arrests
10-8-3: Tickets
10-8-4: Prima Facie Proof
10-8-5: Saving Clause
10-8-6: Effect of Ordinance
10-8-1: GENERAL:
Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this Title for which no penalty is specifically provided shall be fined not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1965-8; 4-1-65)
10-8-2: ARRESTS:
Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this Title shall be
released upon proper bail being furnished as required by statute. The Police
Officer in command at the station may, in the absence of a proper court or
justice, prescribe the amount of bail or bond in each instance. Provided that
any arrested person may at his own request, have the amount of such bond set by
a proper court or justice-of-the-peace as provided by statute.
10-8-3: TICKETS:
For traffic offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving,
police officers, after making note of the license number of the vehicle (and
name of the offender where possible) may issue a traffic violation ticket
notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing
such cases. Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if
the offender does not appear at the time and place so specified.
10-8-4: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the name
of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
10-8-5: SAVING CLAUSE:
All ordinances heretofore passed and approved by the Board of Trustees which
establish speed and load limits, one-way streets and alleys, parking
restrictions and regulations on certain streets, and U-turn regulations and
restrictions in effect prior to the passage of this Amendatory Ordinance shall
remain in full force and effect as fully as if this Amendatory Ordinance had
not been passed.
10-8-6: EFFECT OF ORDINANCE:
If any part or parts of this Chapter are for any reason held to be invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Chapter. (6-16-61)
TITLE XI
GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 1
PENALTY
SECTION:
11-1-1: General Penalty
11-1-2: Default; Labor
11-1-3: License
11-1-4: Application
11-1-5: Liability Of Officers
11-1-6: Alternative Penalties, Compliance Warning Tickets
11-1-7: General Penalty Collection Fees
11-1-8: Severability
11-1-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of or found liable for a violation of any section of this
Code shall be fined in a sum not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for any one offense, but no imprisonment authorized for failure to
pay any fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for one offense.
(Ord. 2019-11, 4-4-2019)
11-1-2: DEFAULT; LABOR:
Any person in default of payment of any fine, fees or costs imposed, found to
be unable to pay any fine, fees or costs imposed, or in addition to any fine,
fees or costs imposed, may be required to perform some reasonable public
service work such as but not limited to the picking up of litter in public
parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public facilities. (Ord.
2019-11, 4-4-2019)
11-1-3: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this Code, any
license previously issued to the licensee by the Village may be revoked as
provided by ordinance. (Ord. 2019-11, 4-4-2019)
11-1-4: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach of violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2019-11, 4-
4-2019)
11-1-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (Ord.
2019-11, 4-4-2019)
11-1-6: ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES, COMPLIANCE WARNING TICKETS:
   (A)   Issuance Of Ticket:
      1.   Any person, pursuant to the issuance of a compliance warning ticket,
who is accused of a violation of certain sections of this Code as hereinafter
described in subsection (B) of this section, except a traffic offense for which
a court appearance is required pursuant to rule 551 of the Illinois Supreme
Court, may settle and compromise that ticket by paying to the Village a fee of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) within ten (10) days from the date such alleged
violation was committed or by paying to the Village the sum of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) subsequent to said ten (10) day period and prior to
thirty (30) days thereafter.
      2.   The issuance of compliance warning citations shall be as a courtesy
in lieu of instituting a prosecution in court for the alleged offense. If the
person accused of the violation does not settle the claim, a uniform traffic
complaint or notice to appear will be issued for that violation and otherwise
that person shall be subject to the general penalties set forth in section
11-1-1 of this chapter.
   (B)   Statutes Enumerated: The following violations shall be subject to the
procedures described herein 1 :
10-5/3-112(b)          Failure to transfer title within 5 days.
10-5/3-401(a)          No valid registration - never applied.
10-5/3-404             No bill of lading or manifest/dispatch record.
10-5/3-411(a)          Failure to carry registration card of reciprocity permit
                       - second division vehicle.
10-5/3-413(a,b)1       Improper display of license plates.
10-5/3-413(f)          Operation of vehicle with expired registration plate or
                       sticker.
10-5/3-416             Failure to notify the Secretary of State of name/address
                       change.
10-5/3-417(a)          Failure to immediately apply for replacement
                       registration card, plate or sticker.
10-5/3-701(1)          No valid registration - no valid plate or sticker
                       obtained.
10-5/5-201(h)          No in transit plates.
10-5/5-202(e)          Failure to display 3 tow truck plates.
10-5/11-1419.01        Failure to display Illinois Motor Fuel Tax
                       identification card.
10-5/11-1419.02        Failure to display external Illinois Motor Fuel Tax
                       identification device.
10-5/11-1426           Operation of all-terrain vehicles and off highway
                       motorcycles on streets, roads and highways.
10-5/11-1507(a)        Operation of bicycle without lamp and reflector.
10-5/11-1507.1         Operation of motorized pedal cycle without lamp and
                       reflector.
10-5/12-101(a)         Operation of vehicle with unsafe equipment.
10-5/12-201(a)         Operation of motorcycle without lighted headlamp.
10-5/12-201(b)         Driving vehicles other than motorcycles without 2
                       lighted headlamps and taillamps when required.
10-5/12-201(c)         No white rear registration light.
10-5/12-202(a,b)       Insufficient clearance, identification or side marker
                       lamps and reflectors - second division vehicle.
10-5/12-203(a)         Failure to use parking lights while vehicle is standing
                       on highway.
10-5/12-204            Improper lamp or flag on projecting load.
10-5/12-205            Improper use of lamps on towing and towed vehicles.
10-5/12-207(a)         Improper use or more than 1 spot lamp.
10-5/12-207(b)         Improper use of more than 3 auxiliary driving lamps.
10-5/12-208(a)         No stop signal lamp or device.
10-5/12-209(c)         Defective backup lights.
10-5/12-210(a)         Failure to dim headlights/auxiliary driving lamps within
                       500 feet on approach of vehicle.
10-5/12-210(b)         Failure to dim headlights/auxiliary driving lamps within
                       300 feet of vehicle in same direction.
10-5/12-211(a)         Improper lighting on vehicles other than motorcycles -
                       only 1 headlamp.
10-5/12-211(b)         Improper use of more than 4 lighted headlights/auxiliary
                       driving lamps.
10-5/12-212(a)         Improper use of red light visible from front of vehicle.
10-5/12-212(b)         Unlawful use of flashing lights.
10-5/12-215            Unlawful use of oscillating, rotating or flashing
                       lights.
10-5/12-301            Use of defective brakes.
10-5/12-401            Unlawful use of metal studded tire.
10-5/12-405(d)         Use of unsafe tire.
10-5/12-501(a)         Operation of vehicle without windshield.
10-5/12-502            Operation of vehicle without rear reflecting mirror.
10-5/12-503(a)         Obstructed view of windshield or side windows adjacent
                       to driver.
                       Unlawful application of tinted film to windshield or
10-5/12-503(b)         window(s) adjacent to driver - all vehicles manufactured
                       after 12-31-81.
10-5/12-503(c)         Obstructed view of any window by stationary or suspended
                       object(s).
                       Operation of vehicle without windshield cleaning device;
10-5/12-503(d)         operation of vehicle with view obstructed by snow, ice
                       or moisture.
10-5/12-503(e)         Obstructed view due to defective condition or repair of
                       any window.
10-5/12-601(a)         Operation of vehicle with defective horn.
10-5/12-601(b)         Unlawful possession or use of siren.
10-5/12-602            Operation of vehicle with defective or modified exhaust
                       system.
10-5/12-603(b)         Operation of vehicle without 2 front seat safety belts -
                       vehicles of 1961 or later model years.
10-5/12-603.1          Failure of driver/front seat occupant(s) to use seat
                       safety belt.
10-5/12-604(a)         Operation of vehicle with television receiver visible to
                       driver.
10-5/12-606            Operation of tow truck without:
 (a)                    Identifying sign attached on each side.
 (b)                    Required equipment - 1 broom, shovel, trash can and
                        fire extinguisher.
 (c)                    Removing roadway debris and spreading dirt or sand on
                        oil/grease deposits.
 (d)                    Insurance policy in cab.
                       Operation of vehicle with unlawfully altered vehicle
10-5/12-607(a)         suspension system - body lifted in excess of 3 inches
                       from chassis.
10-5/12-607.1(a)       Operation of first division vehicle with frame in excess
                       of 22 inches above ground.
                       Operation of second division vehicle with frame in
10-5/12-607.1(b)       excess of specified limits above ground - refer to
                       statute.
                       Operation of vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating
10-5/12-608(a)         (GVWR) of 9,000 pounds or less or a recreational vehicle
                       without 2 bumpers.
10-5/12-608(b)         Operation of vehicle with unlawful bumper height.
10-5/12-610(a)         Operation of vehicle while wearing headset receiver.
10-5/12-702(a)         Operation of second division vehicle without carrying
                       flares/warning devices.
10-5/12-702(c,d,e,f,g) Failure to use flares/warning devices when second
                       division vehicle is disabled.
10-5/12-704(a)         Failure to placard vehicle transporting explosives.
10-5/12-704(b)         Failure to carry 2 fire extinguishers within vehicle
                       transporting explosives.
10-5/12-707            Overloaded school bus, commuter van or motor vehicle
                       used for hire.
10-5/12-711            Operation of garbage truck, roll-off hoist or roll-on
                       container without audible backing warning system.
10-5/12-806            Failure to cover school bus sign.
10-5/12-808            Operating school bus without fire extinguisher.
10-5/12-809            Operating school bus without first aid kit.
10-5/12-810            Transporting handicapped passenger(s) without
                       restraining device.
10-5/13-111            Operation without certificate of valid safety test
                       attached to windshield - second division vehicle.
10-5/13A-104(c)        Failure to display valid unexpired emission inspection
                       sticker (affected Illinois counties only).
10-5/15-105            Load projecting in any excess beyond left fenders or 6
                       inches beyond right fenders of first division vehicle.
10-5/15-106            Failure to fasten loose projecting member.
10-5/15-108            Failure to plank edge of pavement for any vehicle in
                       excess of 8,000 pounds.
10-5/15-109(a)         Spilling load on highway.
10-5/15-109(b)         Operating loading vehicle without securely fastened
                       covering.
10-5/15-109.1          Operating second division vehicle with load falling,
                       blowing or dropping to highway.
10-5/15-114            Unlawful pushing of disabled vehicle.
10-5/18c-4104(a)       Operation without registration - intrastate or
                       interstate.
10-5/18c-4604(1)       Operation without current cab card and Illinois
                       identifier stamp.
10-5/18c-4604(3)       Use of a cab card and Illinois identifier stamp issued
                       to another carrier.
10-5/18c-4604(4)       Failure to display or present a cab card and Illinois
                       identifier stamp.
                       Operating without trade name, license and registration
10-5/18c-4701(1)       number or carrier painted or affixed to both doors of
                       power unit.
10-40/3-1              Operation of unnumbered snowmobile.
10-40/4-1              Operation of snowmobile without required:
 (A)                    1 white headlamp during darkness.
 (B)                    1 rear taillight during darkness.
 (C)                    Brake system in good mechanical condition.
 (D)                    Reflective material on each side of cowling.
 (E)                    Adequate sound suppression equipment.
10-40/5-1(D)           Operation of snowmobile without lighted headlamp and
                       taillight.
 
(Ord. 2019-11, 4-4-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS.
11-1-7: GENERAL PENALTY COLLECTION FEES:
   (A)   In the event that any fine, charge, fee, penalty, or payment, however
described, due and owing to the Village pursuant to any provision of the
Village Code (a "Debt") goes unpaid for more than thirty (30) days (unless
another timeframe is specified elsewhere in this Code) after the person
responsible for such payment (the "Responsible Person") has been notified of
the existence of such outstanding Debt as set forth in the various provisions
of this Code, or if none is stated by written notice personally delivered or
mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Responsible Person
at his or her last known address on file with the Village (or if none then at
his or her last known address as determined by the Village after a diligent
search), the Village may transfer or assign said Debt to a private collection
agency or attorney of the Village's choosing for collection purposes. Any such
collection agency or attorney shall, for the purposes of collecting any Debt so
transferred or assigned, be deemed an agent of the Village. Nothing in this
Section is intended or shall be deemed to limit or restrict the Village's
ability to pursue any and all rights, remedies, and causes of action as may be
available to it at law or in equity in the normal course of its business.
   (B)   If the Village transfers or assigns any Debt to a private collection
agency or attorney for collection, a collection fee equal to thirty-five
percent (35%) of the outstanding Debt will be assessed against the Responsible
Person and added to the balance of the Debt in order to offset the Village's
costs, expenses, and fees associated with collection.
   (C)   If the Village pursues collection of any Debt by any other means, the
Responsible Person shall be held liable to the Village for any and all costs,
expenses, and fees, including without limitation a reasonable attorney's fee,
incurred by the Village for the collection of such Debt, which shall be added
to the balance of the Debt as an additional fine, charge, fee, penalty, or
payment, as the case may be, subject to any applicable statutory limitations.
(Ord. 2019-11, 4-4-2019; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 3-17-2025)
11-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Village that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this chapter are severable, and
if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this chapter shall be
declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this
chapter. (Ord. 2019-11, 4-4-2019)
