CITY CODE
of
ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS
1984
Code current through:
Ord. 67-2025, passed December 24, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREAMBLE
         This code of the City of Rock Island, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 67-2025, passed June 24, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a complete recodification of the ordinances of the City
of Rock Island of a general and permanent nature. As expressed in the Adopting
Ordinance, the Code supersedes all such ordinances not included herein or
recognized as continuing in force by reference thereto.
The chapters of the Code arranged in alphabetical order and the sections within
each chapter are catchlined to facilitate usage. Source materials used in the
preparation of the Code were the 1963 Rock Island Code and ordinances
subsequently adopted by the governing body. The source of each section is
included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The
absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for
the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the Comparative Tables
appearing in the back of this volume, the reader can locate any section
included herein.
Footnotes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to
relevant provisions of the state law have been included. A table listing the
state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is
included, at the back of this volume.
Numbering System
The numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state
and local codes. Each section number consists of two component parts separated
by a dash, the figure before the dash representing the chapter number and the
figure after the dash indicating the position of the section within the
chapter. Thus, the first section of Chapter 1 is numbered 1-1 and the second
section of Chapter 3 is 3-2. Under this system, each section is identified with
its chapter, and, at that same time, new sections or even whole chapters can be
inserted in their proper places, simply by using the decimal system for
amendments. By way of illustration: If new material consisting of three
sections that would logically come between sections 2-4 and 2-5 is desired to
be added, such new sections would be numbered 2-4.1, 2-4.2 and 2-4.3,
respectively. New chapters may be included in the same manner. If the new
material is to be included between Chapters 6 and 7, it will be designated as
Chapter 6.1. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters
is maintained when including new chapters. New articles and new divisions may
be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the
end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be
placed at the end of the article embracing the subject, the next successive
number being assigned to the article or division.
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 84-36
An Ordinance Adopting and Enacting a New Code for the City of Rock Island,
Illinois; Establishing the Same Providing for the Repeal of Certain Ordinances
Not Included Therein; Providing for the Manner of Amending and Supplementing
Such Code; and Providing When Such Code and This Ordinance Shall Become
Effective.
Be It Ordained by the City Council of the City of Rock Island, Illinois:
Section 1. That the Code of Ordinances, consisting of Chapters 1 to 16, each
inclusive, is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Code of Ordinances of the City
of Rock Island, Illinois", which Code shall supersede all general and permanent
ordinances of the City adopted on or before November 8, 1982, to the extent
provided in section 2 hereof.
Section 2. That all provisions of such code shall be in full force and effect
from and after November 1, 1984, and all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature of the City, adopted on final passage on or before November 8, 1982, and
not included in such Code or recognized and continued in force by reference
therein, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of such Code.
Section 3. That the repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance. (Ord. 84-36, 8-27-
1984)
Section 4. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, a violation of any
provision of such Code, or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine of not
less than five dollars ($5.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), as provided in section 1-13 of such Code. Any fine imposed by this
code which increases by the passage of time alone, shall not increase if, prior
to the time the increase occurs pursuant to the terms of the ordinance, the
alleged violator files a written request for review of the alleged violation
with the appropriate agency. If, after the alleged violator exhausts his review
rights, the violation has not been paid or rescinded, the violator shall have a
like time to pay the fine as provided in the ordinance before the increase
shall take effect. (Ord. 84-36, 8-27-1984; Ord. 23-2003, § 1, 4-14-2003)
Section 5. Any and all additions and amendments to such Code, when passed in
such form as to indicate the intention of the Council to make the same a part
of such Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in such Code, so that
reference to such Code shall be understood and intended to include such
additions and amendments.
Section 6. That in the case of the amendment of any section of such Code for
which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty, as provided in section 4
of this ordinance and in section 1-13 of such Code shall apply to the section
as amended, or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty,
other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section
in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be
held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically
repealed therein.
Section 7. Any ordinance adopted after November 8, 1982, which amends or refers
to ordinances which have been codified in such Code, shall be construed as if
they amend or refer to like provisions of such Code.
Section 8. This ordinance and the Code adopted hereby, shall become effective
November 1, 1984.
/s/ James R. Davis
Mayor
PASSED: August 27, 1984
APPROVED: August 28, 1984
ATTEST: Jacqueline L. Vander Meersch
Chapter 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-1. Designation Of Code 1 :
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall
be designated as the Code of Ordinances of the City of Rock Island, Illinois.
(1963 Code, Ch. 1, Art. I)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3.
Sec. 1-2. Definitions; Rules Of Construction 2 :
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances now in force or which
may hereafter be passed, the rules in this Section shall be observed unless
such construction is excluded by express provision of the Code or ordinance, is
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City Council or is repugnant to
the context thereof:
   City: The City of Rock Island in the State of Illinois, except as otherwise
provided.
   Computation Of Time: The time within which any act provided by law is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, and then it shall also be
excluded. If the day succeeding such Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or a
Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be excluded.
   Council, City Council: The Council of the City of Rock Island, Illinois.
   County: Rock Island County in the State of Illinois.
   Court: The term "court" includes courts not of record as well as courts of
record.
   Gender: Words importing the masculine gender may be applied to females and
to firms, partnerships, associations, corporations, companies and
organizations.
   Generally: All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed, in order that the true intent and meaning of the Council
may be fully carried out.
   Heretofore; Hereafter: The word "heretofore" shall mean any time previous to
the day on which the ordinance takes effect, and the word "hereafter" shall
mean at any time after such day.
   Ill. Rev. Stat: The abbreviation "Ill. Rev. Stat," shall mean the latest
edition of the Illinois Revised Statutes, as amended. Except as otherwise
provided in this Code or any other ordinance of the City, the rules of
construction set out in Ill. Rev. Stat. chapter 1, section 1001 et seq., shall
apply to this Code and to all other ordinances of the City as far as is
practicable.
   In The City: The words "in the City" or "within the City" mean and include
all territory over which the City shall now possess or hereafter acquire
jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other regulatory powers
by virtue of any Constitutional law or State statute.
   Joint Authority: Words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or
more public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or persons.
   Laws Or Ordinances Now In Force: The term "laws or ordinances now in force"
or words of similar import shall mean the laws and ordinances in force at the
time the ordinance containing the words takes effect.
   Mayor: The term "Mayor" shall apply as well to the acting mayor.
   Month: A calendar month.
   Number: Words importing the singular number may extend and may be applied to
several persons or things, and words importing the plural number may include
the singular.
   Oath: The word "oath" shall be deemed to include an affirmation and the word
"sworn" shall be construed to include the word "affirmed".
   Occupant Or Tenant: The word "occupant" or "tenant", applied to a building
or land, means any person who holds a written or oral lease of or who actually
occupies the whole or part of such building or land, either alone or with
others.
   Officers And Departments Generally: Whenever any officer, department or
other agency is referred to by title, such as "clerk", "chief of police",
"police department" or "chief building inspector", such reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words "of the City of Rock Island, Illinois".
   Or, And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
   Owner: The word "owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint tenant of the whole or a part of
such building or land.
   Person: "Person" shall mean and include any person, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   Personal Property: "Personal property" includes every species of property,
except real property as defined by this Section.
   Preceding, Following: The word "preceding" means the next before, and the
word "following" means the next after.
   Property: The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
   Real Property: "Real property" shall include lands, tenements and
hereditaments and shall embrace all chattels real.
   Shall, May: The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
   Sidewalk: That portion of a street between the curblines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   State: The term "State" or "the State" means the State of Illinois.
   Street: The entire width between property lines of every way or place when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of right for
purposes of vehicular traffic.
   Tense: Words in the present tense include the future.
   Written, In Writing: The term "written" or "in writing" may include printing
and any other mode of representing word; and letters.
   Year: A calendar year unless otherwise expressed. (1963 Code, Ch. 1, Art. I)
 
Notes
2 5 ILCS 70/1.
Sec. 1-3. Catchlines Of Sections:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of
the section, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any
of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 1-4. History Notes:
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections of this Code are not
intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the
source of matter contained in the sections.
Sec. 1-5. Provisions Construed As Continuations Of Existing Ordinances:
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this Code shall be construed
as a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. Severability Of Parts Of Code 3 :
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code and of
every code adopted by reference herein are severable, and if any such phrase,
clause, sentence or paragraph shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses,
sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, including any code adopted by
reference. (1963 Code, Ch. 1, Art. I)
 
Notes
3 5 ILCS 70/1.31.
Sec. 1-7. Certain Ordinances Not Affected By Code:
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to
repeal or otherwise affect the validity of:
   (1)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
City, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of
the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the City.
   (2)   Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the City.
   (3)   Any budget or appropriation ordinance.
   (4)   Any right or franchise granted by the City Council to any person.
   (5)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
City, or acquiring or vacating any easement in the City.
   (6)   Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any
street in the City.
   (7)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes
therefor.
   (8)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the
City, or providing regulations for the same.
   (9)   Any ordinance annexing property to the City.
   (10)   Any zoning ordinance of the City.
   (11)   Any temporary ordinance.
All such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to
the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Sec. 1-8. Amendments To Code; Amendatory Language:
   (a)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
Code in substantially the following language: "That section       of the Code
of Ordinances of the City of Rock Island, Illinois, is hereby amended to read
as follows: . . . ." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as
desired.
   (b)   If a new section not heretofore existing in this Code is to be added,
the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Rock Island, Illinois, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered
     , which section reads as follows: . . . ." The new section shall then be
set out in full as desired.
Sec. 1-9. Supplementation Of Code:
   (a)   By contract or by City personnel, supplements to this Code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council. A
supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and
general ordinances passed by the City Council during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (b)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (c)   When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles.
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers.
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter", "this article", "this division", etc., as the case may be, or
to "sections       to      " (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the Code).
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. Altering Code:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to change, by additions or
deletions, any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions
thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner which will cause
the law of the City to be misrepresented.
Sec. 1-11. When Ordinances Are Repealed:
Whenever any ordinance or part of any ordinance that is required by law to be
published shall be repealed or modified by a subsequent ordinance, the
ordinance or part of ordinance thus repealed or modified shall continue in
force until the due publication of the ordinance repealing or modifying the
same shall take effect, unless therein otherwise expressly provided. When any
ordinance repealing any former ordinance, clause or provision shall itself be
repealed, such last repeal shall not be construed to revive the former original
ordinance, clause or provision, unless therein so expressly provided. (1963
Code, Ch. 1, Art. I)
Sec. 1-12. Passage Of New Ordinances:
No new ordinances shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance, whether such
former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed
against the former ordinance, or as to any one act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred or any right accrued or claim arising under
the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense or act
so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or
any claim arising before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that the
proceedings thereafter shall conform, so far as practicable, to the ordinances
in force at the time of such proceedings. If any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment is mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such provision
may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied to any judgment
pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect. This section shall extend to
all repeals, either by express words or by implication. (1963 Code, Ch. I, Art.
I)
Sec. 1-13. General Penalty; Continuing Violations 4 :
   (a)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance the doing or omission of any
act is declared to be a breach thereof or forbidden, and no fine or penalty is
specifically provided for such breach, any person convicted of any such breach
shall be adjudged to pay a penalty of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any fine imposed by this code which
increases by the passage of time alone, shall not increase if, prior to the
time the increase occurs pursuant to the terms of the ordinance, the alleged
violator files a written request for review of the alleged violation with the
appropriate agency. If, after the alleged violator exhausts his review rights,
the violation has not been paid or rescinded, the violator shall have a like
time to pay the fine as provided in the ordinance before the increase shall
take effect.
   (b)   On each day that any violation of any provision of this code or of any
ordinance shall continue, it shall be a separate offense. (1963 Code, Ch. I,
Art. II; Ord. 40-2003, § 1, 5-19-2003)
 
Notes
4 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-7.
Sec. 1-13.1. Attempt To Commit Violation Of An Ordinance:
   (a)   A person commits an attempt when he does any act which constitutes a
substantial step toward the commission of that violation, with intent to commit
one of the following offenses:
      (1)   Chapter 10, section
10-54 of this code, attempted retail theft under one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00).
      (2)   Chapter 10, sections
10-56 and
10-88 of this code, attempted criminal damage to property less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
      (3)   Chapter 10, section
10-67 of this code, attempted theft of property generally.
      (4)   Chapter 3, section
3-10 of this code, attempt to gain entry into a liquor establishment without
presenting identification.
      (5)   Chapter 3, section
3-10 of this code, attempt to purchase alcohol by a person under twenty one
(21) years of age.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of this provision shall be one-half
(1/2) of the minimum fine imposed for violation of the actual offense. In the
event a person is accused of a violation of this section and does not wish to
contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the
violation, then the person so accused may pay to the city, at police
headquarters, a penalty in the sum of one-half (1/2) of the amount provided for
in this section as a minimum fine for the actual violation for and in full
satisfaction of the violation. (Ord. 97-20, 3-17-1997)
Sec. 1-14. How Actions Are Brought; Costs:
All actions and prosecutions to recover any fine or to enforce any penalty
under this Code or any other ordinance of this City shall be brought and the
proceedings therein conducted as provided by law in such cases. (1963 Code, Ch.
I, Art. II)
Chapter 2
ADMINISTRATION 5
 
Notes
5 65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq., 5/5-1-1-5/5-5-6.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 2-1. Corporate Seal Established 1 :
The seal heretofore provided and used by and for the City (the impression of
which is, in the center an Indian with bow and arrow, standing beneath a tree;
on the right a steamboat, with hills in the distance; and on the left a
locomotive, surrounded by the inscription "City of Rock Island, Illinois") is
established and declared to be the Corporate Seal of the City. (1963 Code art.
1-3)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 5/3-10-7.
Sec. 2-2. Municipal Year  2 :
   (a)   The Municipal year of the City shall coincide with the calendar year.
Therefore, the Municipal year shall commence on January 1 in each year and
conclude on December 31 of the same year.
   (b)   Beginning January 1, 2015, the City will use the calendar year as the
fiscal period and the Municipality's budget, financial statements, and
comprehensive annual financial report shall be prepared to reflect financial
activities based upon an operating period of January 1 through December 31 of
each year. The Mayor, City Manager, City Attorney, Accounts and Financial
Officer, City Treasurer and all other City staff are authorized to do all
things necessary to efficiently and effectively accomplish this change.
   (c)   In order to efficiently and effectively accomplish this change, there
will be an interim Municipal year commencing on Tuesday, April 1, 2014, and
concluding on Wednesday, December 31, 2014.
   (d)   This section shall be effective as of January 1, 2015, with regard to
the Code change and shall be effective with regards to all other portions from
and after passage, approval, and, if required by law, publication in the manner
provided for by law. (Ord. 052-2013, 9-9-2013)
 
Notes
2 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2.
Secs. 2-3, 2-4. Reserved:
Sec. 2-5. Legal Department - Created:
   (a)   Establishment: There is hereby created a Legal Department in the City.
This department shall consist of the City Attorney as director of the Legal
Department and such other officers and employees as may be provided for by the
City Council.
   (b)   City Attorney: There is hereby established the Office of the City
Attorney, who shall be appointed by and subject to the direction and control of
the City Manager as provided by law, and who shall be an attorney-at-law, duly
licensed to practice in the State of Illinois. The City Attorney, as Director
of the Legal Department, shall have the control and supervision over all
employees assigned to this Department subject to the control of the City
Manager.
   (c)   Special Counsel: The City Manage may provide for the appointment of
special legal counsel. The City Manager shall inform the City Council
specifying the basis for the appointment of special legal counsel and the
timeframe, scope, and matter for which the special counsel is appointed. (Ord.
57-2024, 10-14-2024)
Sec. 2-6. Legal Department - Duties:
   (a)   Functions: The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City
Council, the City Manager, and other City Officers in all matters of law
wherein the interest of the City is involved. The City Attorney shall prosecute
or defend, or cause to be prosecuted or defended, all suits in which the City
is a party, in any court, and shall use all necessary and proper means for the
enforcement and protection of the rights of the City. It shall be the City
Attorney’s duty to draft and/or review all ordinances, bonds, contracts, or
other papers which may come up for passage or action by the City or its
officers or committees. The City Attorney shall report to the City Manager all
cases in which they shall deem it expedient to make an appeal or writ of error
on behalf of the City. The City Attorney shall see that all judgments in favor
of the City are properly and promptly enforced by execution or other proper
final process.
   (b)   Authority to Initiate and Dismiss Litigation: The City Manager may
expend twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) or less to adjust, settle,
purchase, or compromise any or all causes of action, accounts, debts, claims,
demands, disputes, and matters in favor of or against the City or in which the
City is concerned as a debtor or creditor, now existing or which may hereafter
arise. City Council consent is necessary for amounts above $25,000.00.
   (c)   Quarterly Report: The City Attorney shall make a quarterly report to
the City Manager and City Council in which they shall report the status of
pending legal matters of the City. (Ord. 57-2024, 10-14-2024)
Secs. 2-7, 2-8. Reserved:
Sec. 2-9. Commencement Of Terms Of Office:
All City officials elected or appointed in April shall take office on the date
of the first city council meeting in May occurring immediately after the April
Election. (Ord., 4-6-1981; Ord. 024-2021, 4-26-2021)
Sec. 2-10. Hunting And Fishing Licenses:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2008, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-11. Circuit Court:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2008, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-12. Availability Of City Records Under State Freedom Of Information Act:
   (a)   Procedure: Request forms are provided by the City Clerk and are
available on the City's website but are not required. Requests for information
must be submitted in writing. For requests seeking law enforcement records,
requests can be directed by mail to 1212 - 5th Avenue, Rock Island, IL, 61201,
or personal delivery, email, or fax to the Rock Island Police Department. All
other requests can be directed by mail to 1528 - 3rd Avenue, Rock Island, IL,
61201, or personal delivery, email, or fax to the Office of the City Clerk.
   (b)   Appeals: Any person denied access to inspect or copy any public record
may refer to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq.
   (c)   Fees: Refer to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq., for any fee
imposed for the reproduction of information in relation to the State Freedom of
Information Act. (Ord. 011-2018, 3-26-2018)
Sec. 2-13. Personnel Department - Created:
There is hereby created a Personnel Department in the City. This department
shall be administered by a Personnel Director appointed by and subject to the
direction and control of the City Manager. (Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 2-14. Personnel Department - Duties Of Director:
The Personnel Director shall supervise and coordinate activities relating to
health insurance, risk management, employee benefits, recruitment, legal
services, training, public access channel and labor negotiations, and in
addition thereto, shall perform such further duties as may from time to time be
directed by the City Manager. (Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987; Ord. 058-2008, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-15. Martin Luther King, Jr., Center Board:
   (a)   Established; Duties: There is hereby established a Martin Luther King,
Jr., Center Board, which will be involved in the continual planning process for
the Martin Luther King, Jr., Center and the supervision and distribution of the
Activity Fund. This board will consider policy matters and will make
recommendations to the City Council regarding services, priorities and
operation of the facility. Such recommendations shall be channeled through the
Director of Martin Luther King, Jr., Center and the City Manager for their
consideration and comments. This board shall be created and operated consistent
with the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Center, Inc., an Illinois not for profit corporation.
   (b)   Members; Terms: The membership of the Martin Luther King, Jr., Center
Board shall consist of one Alderman appointed by the Mayor, Finance Director
and nine (9) members representing the neighborhood of the Martin Luther King,
Jr., Center and the community at large. All members of the board shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. The Finance
Director shall be a permanent member of the board.
   (c)   Chairman; Meetings: After appointment, the Martin Luther King, Jr.,
Center Board shall meet and choose a Chairman from its membership. Meetings of
the committee shall be held from time to time upon the call of the Chairman or
three (3) members of the board. At least one meeting shall be held each year,
and an annual report shall be submitted each year to the City Council. (Ord.
87-22, 3-23-1987; Ord. 93-79, 8-9-1993; Ord. 94-65, 7-25-1994; Ord. 98-64, 9-
14-1998; Ord. 003-2019, 1-14-2019)
Sec. 2-16. Trespassing On King Center Property:
No person shall be on the following described premises: between Eighth and
Ninth Streets and Sixth and Seventh Avenues in the City, including the public
right-of-way surrounding that area, unless he or she is on those premises to
attend a function sponsored by the Martin Luther King, Jr. Center, or conducted
in conjunction with any office or activity in the center; and, in any event,
that person shall leave the premises when requested to do so by the Martin
Luther King, Jr. Center Director, or his designee, or police authority. (Ord.
87-22, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 2-17. Smoke Free Areas In City Owned Facilities:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2008, 8-25-2008)
Secs. 2-18-2-25. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. MAYOR AND COUNCIL GENERALLY
Sec. 2-26. Composition Of Council; Election:
The City of Rock Island shall be divided into wards as established in section
2-302 of this chapter with one Alderman elected from each ward and the Mayor
elected from the City at large. (1963 Code art. 2-1; referendum dated 4-12-
1983)
Sec. 2-27. Qualifications 1 :
No person shall be eligible to the Office of Councilman or Mayor unless he is a
qualified elector of the City, and also complies with all requirements set
forth in the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1963 Code art. 2-1)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/3-14-1, 5/5-2-10.
Sec. 2-28. Mayor As Presiding Officer:
The Mayor shall preside at all Council meetings and shall have the powers as
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-3-1 through 5-3-5. (1963 Code
art. 2-1; referendum dated 4-12-1983)
Sec. 2-29. Mayor Pro Tem  2 :
If a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor incapacitates him from the
performance of his duties but does not create a vacancy in the office, the City
Council shall elect one of its members to act as Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro
Tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform the duties and possess
all the rights and powers of the Mayor. (1963 Code art. 2-1)
 
Notes
2 65 ILCS 5/3-11-7.
Sec. 2-30. General Powers 3 :
The Council has and shall exercise all legislative powers, functions and duties
conferred upon the City or its officers. Without limitation of the foregoing,
the Council shall have power to:
      (1)   Appoint and remove the City Manager.
      (2)   Establish other administrative departments.
      (3)   Adopt the budget of the City.
      (4)   Authorize the issuance of bonds by a bond ordinance.
      (5)   Inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the
City and make investigations as to Municipal affairs.
      (6)   Provide for an annual independent audit.
      (7)   Approve payment of expenses and liability. (1963 Code art. 2-1)
 
Notes
3 65 ILCS 5/5-3-6.
Sec. 2-31. Rules Of Procedure  4 :
The Council shall determine its own rules of procedure, as provided by State
Statute. All parliamentary questions will be determined by "Robert's Rules of
Order". Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the City Clerk, and
the minutes shall be available for public inspection as provided in the
Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq. (1963
Code art. 2-1; Ord. 058-2008, 8-25-2008)
 
Notes
4 65 ILCS 5/3-10-7, 5/3-11-11.
Sec. 2-32. Meetings - Regular:
Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held twice a month at six forty
five o'clock (6:45) P.M. on the second and fourth Mondays of the month except
for December when regularly scheduled meetings shall be held on the second and
third Monday of the month. If the day for holding a regular meeting falls on a
holiday on which the City Hall is closed for business, then the meeting shall
be held on the third Monday of the month. Meetings shall be held in the City
Hall.
      (1)   Policy Statement: It is the policy of the City of Rock Island,
Illinois, that a member of the City Council, which is subject to the provisions
of the Open Meetings Act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., may
attend and participate in any open or closed meeting of the City Council from a
remote location via telephone, video or internet connection, provided that such
attendance and participation is in compliance with this policy and any other
applicable laws.
      (2)   Prerequisites: Any member of the City Council shall be provided the
opportunity to attend an open or closed meeting via electronic means from a
remote location if a quorum is physically present at the meeting site, the
quorum votes to approve the attendance by electronic means, and the requesting
member meets the following conditions:
      a.   The member must notify the City Clerk at least forty eight (48)
hours prior to the scheduled meeting, unless such notice is impractical, so
that necessary communications equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the
necessary technical arrangements will result in denial of a request for
electronic attendance.
      b.   The member must assert one of the three (3) following reasons why he
or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         1.   Due to personal illness or disability;
         2.   Due to employment purposes or other City business;
         3.   Due to a family emergency or other emergency.
      (3)   Quorum And Vote Required: Providing the above prerequisites have
been met and following roll call to establish that a quorum is physically
present at the meeting site, a motion shall be made and considered as to
whether to allow the member to remotely attend the meeting via electronic
means. A vote may be taken to permit participation for a stated series of
meetings if the same reason applies to each case and proper notice has been
provided to the City Clerk. Otherwise, a vote must be taken to allow each
remote participation via electronic means. The motion must be approved by a
vote of a majority of the City Council.
      (4)   Adequate Equipment Required: Any member participating
electronically and other members of the City Council must be able to
communicate effectively, and members of the audience must be able to hear all
communications at the meeting site. Before allowing remote attendance via
electronic means at any meeting, the City Council must be satisfied that
adequate remote access is available to satisfy these requirements.
      (5)   Meeting Minutes: Any member attending remotely via electronic means
shall be counted as present for the meeting. The meeting minutes shall reflect
and state specifically whether each member is physically present, absent, or
present by electronic means and shall state the approved reason necessitating
attendance via electronic means.
      (6)   Rights Of Remote Member: Any member permitted to participate
remotely via electronic means shall be permitted to express his or her comments
during the meeting and participate in the same capacity as those members
physically present, subject to all general meeting guidelines and procedures
previously adopted and adhered to. The remote member shall be heard,
considered, and counted as to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any
remote members shall be called during any vote taken and his or her vote
counted and recorded by the City Clerk and placed in the meeting minutes. A
member participating remotely via electronic means may leave a meeting and
return as in the case of any member, provided the member attending via
electronic means shall announce his or her leaving and returning to the quorum
present.
      (7)   Costs: Any member participating remotely via telephone shall be
reimbursed for the cost of the telephone call upon a valid receipt shown. Any
other costs associated with attendance and participation via electronic means,
including video conferencing and other audio and video equipment, must be
approved by the City Council prior to incurring such costs. (Ord. 072-2018, 12-
10-2018)
Sec. 2-33. Meetings - Special  5 :
Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or three (3)
Councilmen and notice thereof shall be given to each member of the Council by
the City Clerk at least twenty four (24) hours prior to said meeting and notice
thereof shall be given the public as provided in the Illinois Open Meetings
Act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq.
      (1)   Policy Statement: It is the policy of the City of Rock Island,
Illinois, that a member of the City Council, which is subject to the provisions
of the Open Meetings Act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., may
attend and participate in any open or closed meeting of the City Council from a
remote location via telephone, video or internet connection, provided that such
attendance and participation is in compliance with this policy and any other
applicable laws.
      (2)   Prerequisites: Any member of the City Council shall be provided the
opportunity to attend an open or closed meeting via electronic means from a
remote location if a quorum is physically present at the meeting site, the
quorum votes to approve the attendance by electronic means, and the requesting
member meets the following conditions:
      a.   The member must notify the City Clerk at least forty eight (48)
hours prior to the scheduled meeting, unless such notice is impractical, so
that necessary communications equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the
necessary technical arrangements will result in denial of a request for
electronic attendance.
      b.   The member must assert one of the three (3) following reasons why he
or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         1.   Due to personal illness or disability;
         2.   Due to employment purposes or other City business;
         3.   Due to a family emergency or other emergency.
      (3)   Quorum And Vote Required: Providing the above prerequisites have
been met and following roll call to establish that a quorum is physically
present at the meeting site, a motion shall be made and considered as to
whether to allow the member to remotely attend the meeting via electronic
means. A vote may be taken to permit participation for a stated series of
meetings if the same reason applies to each case and proper notice has been
provided to the City Clerk. Otherwise, a vote must be taken to allow each
remote participation via electronic means. The motion must be approved by a
vote of a majority of the City Council.
      (4)   Adequate Equipment Required: Any member participating
electronically and other members of the City Council must be able to
communicate effectively, and members of the audience must be able to hear all
communications at the meeting site. Before allowing remote attendance via
electronic means at any meeting, the City Council must be satisfied that
adequate remote access is available to satisfy these requirements.
      (5)   Meeting Minutes: Any member attending remotely via electronic means
shall be counted as present for the meeting. The meeting minutes shall reflect
and state specifically whether each member is physically present, absent, or
present by electronic means and shall state the approved reason necessitating
attendance via electronic means.
      (6)   Rights Of Remote Member: Any member permitted to participate
remotely via electronic means shall be permitted to express his or her comments
during the meeting and participate in the same capacity as those members
physically present, subject to all general meeting guidelines and procedures
previously adopted and adhered to. The remote member shall be heard,
considered, and counted as to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any
remote members shall be called during any vote taken and his or her vote
counted and recorded by the City Clerk and placed in the meeting minutes. A
member participating remotely via electronic means may leave a meeting and
return as in the case of any member, provided the member attending via
electronic means shall announce his or her leaving and returning to the quorum
present.
      (7)   Costs: Any member participating remotely via telephone shall be
reimbursed for the cost of the telephone call upon a valid receipt shown. Any
other costs associated with attendance and participation via electronic means,
including video conferencing and other audio and video equipment, must be
approved by the City Council prior to incurring such costs. (1963 Code art. 2-
1; Ord. 058-2008, 8-25-2008; Ord. 006-2016, 1-18-2016)
 
Notes
5 5 ILCS 120/1 - 120/6, 120/2.02 et seq.; 65 ILCS 5/3-11-13.
Sec. 2-34. Quorum; Compelling Attendance:
A majority of the members of the city council shall constitute a quorum to do
business. A smaller number, however, may adjourn from time to time and may
compel absentees to attend any regular or special meeting by a written
citation, which citation shall be signed by the mayor or councilman issuing the
same and shall be served upon the absentee by any officer authorized by law to
serve processes in the city, by reading the same to such absentee and serving
him with a copy thereof. Any councilman refusing to obey such citation shall
forfeit ten dollars ($10.00), to be deducted out of his salary; and upon the
repeated refusal to obey such citation, without good cause, such councilman may
be expelled and his office declared abandoned. The council may also compel
members of boards and commissions to attend meetings of those bodies. (1963
Code, ch. II, art. I)
Sec. 2-35. Ordinances - Adoption:
No ordinance shall be adopted by the city council at the same meeting at which
it is offered for consideration, but each ordinance shall pass to a second
reading and shall not be adopted at a meeting occurring less than five (5) days
after the meeting at which its consideration was moved, or at which it was
referred. A motion may be made to consider, suspend operation of this rule, and
adopt the ordinance; and the ordinance shall be adopted if two-thirds (2/3) of
the members of the city council vote favorably therefor. (1963 Code, ch. II,
art. I; Ord., § 1, 5-3-1976)
Sec. 2-36. Ordinances - Publication:
The city clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances required to be
published by law. (1963 Code, ch. II, art. I)
Sec. 2-37. Independent Annual Audit:
As soon as possible after the close of each fiscal year the council shall cause
an audit of the funds and accounts of the city by independent certified public
accountants; and copies of the audit shall be filed with the city clerk, the
comptroller of the state, and such other places as required by law. (1963 Code,
Ch. II, Art. I)
Sec. 2-38. Term Of Office:
The term of office of the mayor and councilmen shall be four (4) years and
until their successors are elected and qualified. Their election shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1963 Code,
Ch. II, Art. I)
Sec. 2-39. Vacancy:
If a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor or councilman, the vacancy shall be
filled by appointment or election as provided in the state statutes. (1963
Code, Ch. II, Art. I)
Sec. 2-40. Conduct At City Council Meetings:
It shall be unlawful for any person to by his conduct interfere with the
orderly conduct of a city council meeting after first being warned that his
conduct is disrupting the assembly and is given the opportunity to cease and
yet fails to do so.
It shall also be unlawful for any person to use or possess any bullhorn or
similar sound amplification equipment in the city council chambers other than
the equipment utilized by the city or by members of the regular news media in
the course of the news reporting functions.
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 94-49, 5-23-1994)
Sec. 2-41. Violation Of City Council Policies At City Council Meetings:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the policies adopted by
the city council for the conduct of its meetings after first being warned that
his conduct is disrupting the assembly and is given the opportunity to cease
and yet fails to do so.
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 94-49, 5-23-1994)
Sec. 2-42. Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with section 2-40 or 2-41 of
this article are hereby repealed insofar as they do so conflict. (Ord. 94-49,
5-23-1994)
Sec. 2-43. Effective Date:
Sections 2-40 and 2-41 of this article shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage and approval as required by law. (Ord. 94-49, 5-23-1994)
Secs. 2-44--2-50. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 2-51. Oaths; bonds:
   (a)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices and
positions, all officers elected or appointed shall take and subscribe the oath
as required by state statute.
   (b)   Officials and employees of the city designated by the council shall
execute a bond in the amount required by the council with security to be
approved as provided by law. Each bond shall be payable to the city, shall be
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the
payment of all money received by such officer, and shall be filed with the city
clerk. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Arts. I, III; Ord., § 1, 11-22-1976)
Sec. 2-52. Residency Requirement For City Employees:
   (a)   All employees of the city hired after January 1, 2020, shall live with
the States of Illinois or Iowa and maintain a sixty (60) minute response time
to the intersection of 17th Street and 31st Avenue in Rock Island, Illinois
unless their collective bargaining agreement grants an exception to this
section.
   (b)   All new employees of the city hired after January 1, 2020, shall be
allowed up to six (6) months from the expiration of their probationary period
to relocate into the defined area.
   (c)   Employees of the city hired after June 10, 1991, shall be allowed to
live within the States of Illinois or Iowa and maintain a sixty (60) minute
response time to the intersection of 17th Street and 31st Avenue in Rock
Island, Illinois, unless their collective bargaining agreement grants an
exception to this section.
   (d)   This section shall not apply to employees where both husband and
spouse are employees of the city of Rock Island and one of said employees was
hired prior to June 10, 1991, and the other spouse subsequent to said date.
(Ord. 91-72, § 1, 6-10-1991; Ord. 91-131, §§ 1–3, 12-2-1991; Ord. 94-75, §§ 1,
2, 9-12-1994; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008; Ord. 073-2019, 12-16-2019)
Secs. 2-53--2-65. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. CITY MANAGER
Sec. 2-66. Office created:
The office of city manager is hereby created. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III)
Sec. 2-67. Appointment:
The city manager may be appointed by a super-majority vote of the City Council
for an indefinite term. The city manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of
their executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to
their actual experience in, or his knowledge of, accepted practice in respect
to the duties set forth in this division. At the time of their appointment they
need not be a resident of the City or State, but during their tenure of office
shall reside within the City. (Ord. 59-2024, 10-14-2024)
Sec. 2-68. Powers And Duties:
The city manager shall be the head of the administrative branch of the city.
The manager shall have and exercise all powers and duties assigned to him by
statute and such other authority as may be granted by the city council. In
addition to the powers and duties required by statute, the manager shall have
the following powers and duties:
   (1)   To enforce all laws and ordinances within the city insofar as the
enforcement is within the powers of the city.
   (2)   To attend all meetings of the city council and to recommend to the
council such action as may be necessary or expedient for the welfare of the
city.
   (3)   To hire and discharge all employees authorized by the city council to
be hired at such compensation as may be set or authorized by the city council.
All employees shall perform their duties subject to the direction of the city
manager or that of the superior to whom the manager may assign such employee.
Provided that the manager may delegate to any other official or employee the
authority to hire or discharge any employees so authorized.
   (4)   To retain, appoint and discharge the city attorney and assistant city
attorneys. In addition to the aforesaid legal staff, to appoint, with the
consent of the city council, such legal counsel as the city manager deems
necessary to perform such duties as may from time to time be directed by the
city manager or the city attorney. The special counsel as may be appointed
shall not perform any services for the city until the manner in which they
shall be compensated for their services shall be resolved. The city council
shall determine the manner of compensation for the special counsel.
   (5)   All appointive offices of the city shall be filled by appointment by
the city manager, except where otherwise required by statute and except for
offices on boards and commissions established by local ordinances; and the
manager shall report to the mayor and to the city council such appointments, or
any removal from office, made by him as soon as possible after the appointment
or removal. Every administrative department of the city shall be under the
supervision and control of the city manager, who shall have the power to
appoint and remove all department heads except where otherwise specifically
required by statute.
   (6)   The city manager shall examine all proposed contracts to which the
city may be a party and may sign on behalf of the city any contract authorized
by the city council, excepting where the city council directs or has directed
that some other officer or officers shall do so. Any contract for purchase of
supplies, materials and equipment, and any and all contracts for contractual
services made by the city wherein said total price or contractual service price
exceeds two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), except for operating
supplies, shall be made only after prior authorization by the city council. The
city manager shall see that all terms of any contract to which the city is a
party are fully performed by all parties thereto.
   (7)   The city manager shall cause to be prepared each year the annual
budget in time for consideration and enactment by the city council, during the
first quarter of the fiscal year; and to prepare the tax levy ordinance for
passage, and file a certified copy thereof with the county clerk within the
time required by law. He shall keep current accounts of the amounts
appropriated and the amounts spent out of such appropriation, showing the
unexpended appropriations at all times.
   (8)   The city manager shall recommend to the city council the salaries to
be paid each appointive officer and subordinate employee of the city.
   (9)   The city manager may make investigations into the affairs of the city
or any department or division thereof, and may investigate all complaints in
relation to the administration of the government of the city and in regard to
service maintained by the public utilities in the city, and see that all
franchises, permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed.
   (10)   The city manager shall maintain an office in the city hall and shall
devote his entire time to the discharge of his official duties.
   (11)   The city manager may consolidate or combine offices, positions,
departments or units under his jurisdiction, with the approval of the city
council, and he may be the head of one or more departments.
   (12)   The city manager shall appoint the members of the board of local
improvements. This board shall consist of not less than three (3) nor more than
five (5) members. One of such members shall be designated by the city manager
as president of the board. The board shall meet at such times as it may
determine or upon call of the president thereof, and shall have the powers and
duties granted to it by statute.
   (13)   In cases of an accidental injury to or death of firemen and
policemen, the city manager will follow all applicable state laws such as the
workers' compensation act  1  , workers' occupational disease act  2  , line of
duty compensation act  3  , public safety employee benefits act  4  and public
employee disability act  5  .
      a.   Medical Care: In case of an accident resulting in an injury to or
death of a policeman or fireman in the employ of the city while in the
performance of his duties, the city manager or his designee shall have
authority to secure and provide all necessary first aid, medical and surgical
services, and all necessary medical, surgical, and hospital services thereafter
incurred, limited, however, to that which is reasonably required to cure or
relieve the effects of the accidental injury.
      b.   Investigation Of Facts: It shall be the duty of the city manager or
his designee to make a complete investigation of all facts surrounding any
accident resulting in an injury to or death of a policeman or fireman in the
employ of the city while in the performance of his duties, to obtain the
statements of all material witnesses and to present a report thereof to the
council. Such report shall also show the date and hour of any such accident,
the place of occurrence of the same, the names and addresses of witnesses, the
apparent nature and extent of the injury and whether the injury or death was
caused under circumstances creating a legal liability for damages on the part
of some person other than the city. Where the injury or death for which
compensation is payable was caused by some other person other than the
employer, then legal proceedings may be taken against such other person to
recover damages notwithstanding such employer's payment of or liability to pay
compensation.
      c.   Payment Of Expenses: All bills showing the items of expenses
incurred for any medical care and hospital treatment referred to in subsection
(13)a of this section shall be presented to the city manager, who shall satisfy
himself as to the reasonableness of the charges made for the services so
rendered and approve the bills submitted by the personnel department and make
his recommendation to the council as to the payment of such claim expenses by
the city.
      d.   Reimbursement By Third Person: If the city attorney is of the
opinion that any accident referred to in this section created a legal liability
for damages on the part of some person other than the city, it shall be the
duty of the city manager or his designee to demand from such person
reimbursement to the city for the amount expended by the city for the medical
care and hospital treatment of any such policeman or fireman. In default of
payment of such amount so expended, the city attorney may institute proceedings
to recover for the city the amount so expended.
   (14)   The city manager shall perform such other duties as may be required
of him by the city council. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III; Ord., § 2, 2-14-1977;
Ord. 93-08, § 1, 2-8-1993; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
 
Notes
1 820 ILCS 305.
2 820 ILCS 310.
3 820 ILCS 315.
4 820 ILCS 320.
5 5 ILCS 345.
Sec. 2-69. Absence Or Incapacity:
In the event that the city manager shall be absent from the city or
incapacitated from performing the duties of his position, the city council may
designate a qualified administrative officer to act as city manager during such
absence or incapacity. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III)
Sec. 2-70. Removal 1 :
The city manager may be removed by the council by a super-majority vote of its
members. The city manager may demand written changes or a written statement of
the reasons for removal, which the council shall furnish to the city manager
within twenty (20) days after the filing of such request. During this period,
the city manager may be suspended from office without pay. The action of the
Council in removing the city manager shall be final. (Ord. 59-2024, 10-14-2024)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/5-3-7.
Sec. 2-71. Administrative Assistant:
   (a)   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of
administrative assistant to the city manager.
   (b)   Residence; Appointment; Removal: The administrative assistant shall be
appointed and removed by the city manager. At the time of his appointment he
need not be a resident of the city or the state, but during his employment by
the city he shall reside within the city.
   (c)   Duties: The administrative assistant shall be directly responsible to
the city manager, and his duties shall be assigned to him from time to time by
the city manager. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III)
Secs. 2-72-2-85. Reserved:
DIVISION 3. CITY CLERK
Sec. 2-86. Appointment; Term Of Office 22 :
The city clerk shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years as provided by
law. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. I; Ord., 11-22-1976)
 
Notes
22 65 ILCS 5/5-2-19.
Sec. 2-87. Duties Generally 23 :
   (a)   The corporate seal of the city shall be and remain in the custody and
keeping of the city clerk, to be used by the clerk in all cases provided for by
the ordinances of the city or the laws of the state, and in all such other
cases where, by the laws and customs of any state or nation, the use of the
corporate seal of the city may be requisite or proper.
   (b)   The clerk shall keep all papers belonging to the city, the custody and
control of which are not given to other officers. The clerk shall attend all
meetings of the city council and keep a full record of its proceedings in the
journal.
   (c)   The clerk shall have other duties prescribed by the City Manager of
the city. Further, the clerk shall keep a current index of all special
ordinances of the city and keep a current revision of the revised ordinances of
the city. (1963 Code, Ch. I, Art. III, and Ch. II, Art. I; Ord., 11-22-1976;
Ord. 014-2020, 4-27-2020)
 
Notes
23 65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 5/3.1-35-90, 5/3.1-35-110.
Sec. 2-88. Deputy Clerk 24 :
A deputy clerk may be appointed to do such acts and exercise such authority as
is granted by law. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. I; Ord. 013-2020, 4-27-2020)
 
Notes
24 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-95.
Secs. 2-89-2-100. Reserved:
DIVISION 4. CITY TREASURER 25
 
Notes
25 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-60 et seq.
Sec. 2-101. Appointment; Term Of Office 26 :
The city treasurer shall be appointed and serve for a term of four (4) years.
(1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. I; Ord., 11-22-1976)
 
Notes
26 65 ILCS 5/5-2-19.
Sec. 2-102. Duties Generally 27 :
The city treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the city, and he shall
keep accurate and complete books of account of all city receipts and
expenditures and all of his transactions as treasurer as required by law. (1963
Code, Ch. II, Art. I)
 
Notes
27 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 et seq.
Sec. 2-103. Deposits 28 :
The city treasurer shall deposit all city funds in his custody in the name of
the city in such banks as are designated by the city council as depositories.
(1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. I)
 
Notes
28 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50.
Sec. 2-104. Records Of Bonds:
The city treasurer shall keep in his office books containing a correct list of
all outstanding bonds of the city showing the number and amount of each and for
and to whom the bonds were issued. When city bonds are purchased, paid or
canceled, these books show these additional facts. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. I)
DIVISION 5. STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT 1
 
Notes
1 Prior ordinance history: Ord. 99-50a.
Sec. 2-105. Definitions:
For purposes of this division, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
   Campaign For Elective Office: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: 1) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
2) relating to collective bargaining, or 3) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
   Candidate: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section
1-3 of the election code 2 .
   Collective Bargaining: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 3 .
   Compensated Time: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
division, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   Compensatory Time Off: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   Contribution: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the election code 4 .
   Employee: A person employed by the city of Rock Island whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
   Employer: The city of Rock Island.
   Gift: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   Leave Of Absence: Any period during which an employee does not receive: 1)
compensation for employment, 2) service credit towards pension benefits, and 3)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   Officer: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   Political Activity: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: 1) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, 2) relating to collective bargaining, or
3) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   Political Organization: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 5 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
   Prohibited Political Activity:
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
      (4)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   Prohibited Source: Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action: a) by an officer or b) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business: a) with the officer or b)
with an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated: a) by the officer or b) by an
employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 55-
2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
 
Notes
2 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
3 5 ILCS 315/3.
4 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
5 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
Sec. 2-106. Prohibited Political Activities:
   (a)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the city of
Rock Island in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (b)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   (c)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (d)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this division.
   (e)   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-
3-2004)
Sec. 2-107. Gift Ban:
Except as permitted by this division, no officer or employee, and no spouse of
or immediate family member living with any officer or employee (collectively
referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any
gift from any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise
prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer
or make a gift that violates this section. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 2-108. Exceptions:
Section
2-107 of this division is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      (3)   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions.
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      (8)   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this subsection, "catered" means
food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by
any means.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      (10)   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this act, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 2-109. Disposition Of Gifts:
An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member living
with the officer or employee, does not violate this division if the recipient
promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited source to
its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an appropriate
charity that is exempt from income taxation under section 501 (c)(3) of the
internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered, or
succeeded. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 2-110. Ethics Advisor:
The Rock Island city attorney is appointed to serve as the "ethics advisor" of
the city of Rock Island. The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the
officers and employees of the city of Rock Island concerning the interpretation
of and compliance with the provisions of this division and state ethics laws.
The ethics advisor shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the
city council. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 2-111. Ethical Standards Policy:
The city of Rock Island ethical standards policy is incorporated herein by
reference and to the extent that it is less restrictive than the state
officials and employees ethics act (public act 93-615 as amended by public act
93-617) and this division, then the provisions of the state act and this
division shall prevail. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 2-112. Ethics Commission:
There is hereby created a commission to be known as the ethics commission of
the city of Rock Island. The commission shall be comprised of three (3) members
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. No
person shall be appointed as a member of the commission who is related either
by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to any elected
officer of the city of Rock Island.
At the first meeting of the commission, the initial appointees shall draw lots
to determine their initial terms. Two (2) commissioners shall serve two (2)
year terms, and the third commissioner shall serve a one year term. Thereafter,
all commissioners shall be appointed to two (2) year terms. Commissioners may
be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners shall choose a
chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two (2)
commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, may remove a
commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office
after service on the commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested,
of a copy of the written charges against the commissioner and after providing
an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than ten (10)
days' notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with this division and refer
violations of this division to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this division and not upon its own prerogative.
      (3)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this division.
      (4)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the city of Rock Island to cooperate with the
commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.
      (5)   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this division. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 2-113. Complaints:
   (a)   Complaints alleging a violation of this division shall be filed with
the ethics commission by delivery to the city clerk.
   (b)   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
   (c)   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this division, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint.
If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
2-107 of this division and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint
be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege
a violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public.
If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
2-106 of this division, then the commission shall notify in writing the
attorney designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and
shall transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in
the custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.
   (d)   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours' public
notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint
and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence.
The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the open meetings
act.
   (e)   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: 1) dismiss the complaint or
2) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
city manager or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular
findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline, and any fine imposed
shall be a matter of public information.
   (f)   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the city manager or impose a fine upon the violator, or
both.
   (g)   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the date
of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission shall
render its decision as required under subsection (e) of this section within
seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7) days
preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before the
date of that election, if possible.
   (h)   The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section
2-107 of this division in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars
($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission
may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a
violation of this division in an amount of not less than one thousand one
dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The
commission may recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
   (i)   A complaint alleging the violation of this act must be filed within
one year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 2-114. Penalties:
   (a)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
2-106 of this division may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   (b)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
2-107 of this division is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   (c)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this division to the local enforcement authorities, the
state's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   (d)   A violation of section
2-106 of this division shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the city of Rock Island by filing in the circuit court an information, or
sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and
conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the
establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
A violation of section
2-107 of this division may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the city of Rock Island in circuit court, or, by the ethics
commission as an administrative adjudication pursuant to chapter 10, article VI
of this code.
   (e)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
2-106 or
2-107 of this division is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 55-2004, §
1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 2-115. Amendments And Constitutionality:
Any amendment to the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act") that
becomes effective after the effective date hereof shall be incorporated into
this division by reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation,
acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited political
activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for
adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this division by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city of
Rock Island.
If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this division shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This division shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city of Rock Island if the act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme court.
If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional but
upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not address
the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by this
division shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
division relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city of
Rock Island. (Ord. 55-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Secs. 2-116-2-120. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. COMPENSATION 36
 
Notes
36 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5 et seq., 5/5-4-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-121. Unclassified Positions:
The officers or employees of the city named in this section shall receive in
payment for their services as such the following compensation payable out of
the city treasury:
   Mayor, annually: Fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00).
   Councilman, annually: Six thousand dollars ($6,000.00).
   The city clerk, city manager, city attorney and assistant city attorneys
shall be compensated as provided in their respective contracts approved by the
city council. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Arts. I, III; Ord., 6-10-1963; Ord., 5-7-
1964; Ord., 5-14-1964; Ord., 6-20-1966; Ord., 7-10-1967; Ord., 10-16-1967;
Ord., 6-24-1968; Ord., 11-18-1968; Ord., 2-24-1969; Ord., 7-14-1969; Ord., 6-
26-1972; Ord., 10-23-1972; Ord., 1-22-1973; Ord., 6-25-1973; Ord., 6-10-1974;
Ord., 4-28-1975; Ord., 2-7-1977; Ord., 2-14-1977; Ord., 4-25-1977; Ord., 2-13-
1978; Ord., 7-10-1978; Ord., 6-25-1979; Ord., 4-14-1980; Ord., 6-16-1980; Ord.,
4-20-1981; Ord., 9-28-1981; Ord. 84-7, 4-16-1984; Ord. 89-3, 1-3-1989; Ord. 89-
7, 2-20-1989; Ord. 89-61, 11-6-1989; Ord. 90-03, 2-6-1990; Ord. 91-15, 2-11-
1991; Ord. 92-24, 2-3-1992; Ord. 92-49, 3-23-1992; Ord. 93-07, 2-1-1993; Ord.
93-10, 2-8-1993; Ord. 94-13, 3-7-1994; Ord. 94-17, 3-14-1994; Ord. 94-21, 3-21-
1994; Ord. 94-86, 10-10-1994; Ord. 95-19, 3-6-1995; Ord. 95-25, 3-27-1995; Ord.
96-17, 3-18-1996; Ord. 96-30, 4-15-1996; Ord. 97-27, 4-7-1997; Ord. 98-35, § 1,
4-20-1998; Ord. 99-15, § 1, 3-15-1999; Ord. 25-2000, § 1, 4-17-2000; Ord. 29-
2001, § 1, 4-2-2001; Ord. 16-2002, § 1, 3-4-2002; Ord. 32-2003, § 1, 4-21-2003;
Ord. 61-2004, § 1, 5-17-2004; Ord. 051-2005, § 1, 6-13-2005; Ord. 095-2005, §
1, 11-14-2005; Ord. 087-2006, § 1, 12-4-2006; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-122. Position Classification And Pay System:
   (a)   Effective the first full pay period of the fiscal year, the
classification and salary plan listed herein shall be in effect for all
employees in the classified service (excluding employees represented by
American Federation of State, County Municipal Employees (chapters A and B),
Command Officers Association, Fraternal Order of Police, International
Association Fire Fighters and United Auto Workers of the city.
CLASS SPECIFICATION
Class Code  Title  Salary Grade
Class Code  Title                                                Salary Grade
Clerical And Office
10401       Office assistant I                                   NA1
10403       Office assistant II                                  NA3
10406       Office assistant III                                 NA6
10408       Administrative secretary                             NA8
10409       Executive secretary                                  NA9
10411       Benefits coordinator                                 NA9
Human Services
10407       Human services specialist I                          NA6
10410       Human services specialist II                         NA10
Technical Professional
10450       Office manager                                       NA12
10458       Assistant to the finance director                    NA12
10412       Budget coordinator                                   NA12
10414       Accountant                                           NA13
10459       Auditor                                              NA15
10416       Network administrator                                NA16
10424       Lead program officer                                 NA16
10446       Special projects manager                             NA16
10426       Economic development coordinator                     NA17
10447       Information management project manager               NA18
Management
10413       Accounts receivable and customer service supervisor  NA14
10415       Risk manager/personnel assistant                     NA15
10417       Equipment maintenance supervisor                     NA15
10418       Electrical and equipment maintenance supervisor      NA15
10419       Sanitation supervisor                                NA15
10420       Marina manager                                       NA15
10456       Water distribution supervisor                        NA15
10457       Assistant to the public works director               NA15
10421       Budget/collections supervisor                        NA16
10422       Utilities maintenance supervisor                     NA16
10423       Assistant city engineer                              NA16
10427       Telecommunications supervisor                        NA16
10455       Technical services manager                           NA16
10425       Street maintenance supervisor                        NA17
10428       Wastewater treatment plant supervisor                NA18
10429       Water treatment plant supervisor                     NA18
10448       Assistant information technology director            NA18
15427       King Center director                                 NA18
10430       Accounting supervisor                                NA19
10432       Building official                                    NA19
28431       Assistant fire chief                                 NA19
10434       Fleet services director                              NA20
10460       City stormwater engineer                             NA20
10461       Street and technical services manager                NA20
10435       Utilities superintendent                             NA21
10436       Planning and redevelopment administrator             NA21
15427       Personnel director/assistant to city manager         NA21
10438       Municipal services superintendent                    NA21
10439       City engineer                                        NA21
15440       Information technology service director              NA22
15441       Director of finance                                  NA23
15442       Chief of police                                      NA23
27443       Fire chief                                           NA23
15444       Public works director                                NA23
15445       Community and economic development director          NA23
15444       Assistant city manager/public works director         NA24
Miscellaneous
99396       Camp counselor
99397       Planning intern
99398       GIS intern
99399       Engineering intern
10982       Management intern
 
   (b)   Personnel Rules: All employees in the classified service of the city
are subject to the personnel rules dated June 2, 2003, as amended, published in
pamphlet form and on file with the city clerk. Nothing in this code or the
ordinance adopting this code shall affect said rules, and they are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length in this section. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III; Ord., 2-13-1964;
Ord., 5-7-1964; Ord., 6-28-1965; Ord., 6-20-1966; Ord., 12-17-1966; Ord., 6-26-
1967; Ord., 8-28-1967; Ord., 1-15-1968; Ord., 6-17-1968; Ord., 4-7-1969; Ord.,
6-16-1969; Ord., 7-13-1970; Ord., 7-12-1971; Ord., 6-26-1972; Ord., 6-25-1973;
Ord., 5-20-1974; Ord., 11-22-1976; Ord., 4-17-1978; Ord., 6-26-1978; Ord., 12-
17-1979; Ord., 12-17-1979; Ord., 3-17-1980; Ord., 8-11-1980; Ord., 1-12-1981;
Ord., 10-12-1981; Ord. 82-31, 9-27-1992; Ord. 82-59, 12-20-1982; Ord. 82-85, 3-
21-1983; Ord. 84-5, 4-9-1984; Ord. 86-25, 5-12-1986; Ord. 86-30, 6-16-1986;
Ord. 86-65, 12-8-1986; Ord. 87-23, 3-23-1987; Ord. 87-29, 3-23-1987; Ord. 87-
66, 8-10-1987; Ord. 88-05, 1-18-1988; Ord. 88-63, 11-7-1988; Ord. 89-4, 2-6-
1989; Ord. 89-18, 4-3-1989; Ord. 89-20, 4-3-1989; Ord. 89-37, 7-10-1989; Ord.
91-25, 3-18-1991; Ord. 92-33, 3-16-1992; Ord. 92-34, 3-16-1992; Ord. 92-53, 4-
6-1992; Ord. 92-55, 4-16-1992; Ord. 93-15, 3-15-1993; Ord. 93-16, 3-15-1993;
Ord. 94-69, 8-8-1994; Ord. 95-14, 2-20-1995; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-123. Increases During Fiscal Year-Authorized 1 :
Under the powers granted by the Illinois constitution to home rule
municipalities, the city council may increase compensation paid to city
employees during the fiscal year after the adoption of the annual appropriation
ordinance. (Ord., 2-3-1975)
 
Notes
1 Illinois constitution art. VII, §6.
Sec. 2-124. Increases During Fiscal Year-How Made:
Any increase of compensation to any employee of the city shall be done only by
the official action of the city council; except, however, the city manager
shall have the authority to grant merit increases to employees at any time
during the fiscal year if in his discretion said increases are merited. (Ord.,
2-3-1975; Ord., 3-10-1975)
Secs. 2-125-2-140. Reserved:
ARTICLE V. FINANCE 40
 
Notes
40 See also: S.H.A. 310 ILCS 5/24, 30/4; 65 ILCS 5/11-74.2-16 et seq.; 65 ILCS
   5/11-74.4-1 et seq; 65 ILCS 5/11-74.5-1; 65 ILCS 5/8-4-1 et seq.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 2-141. Fiscal Year 41 :
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on April 1 of each calendar year.
Beginning January 1, 2015, the fiscal year shall commence on January 1 of each
calendar year. (1963 Code, ch. I, art. V; Ord. 052-2013, 9-9-2013)
 
Notes
41 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2.
Sec. 2-142. Director-Generally:
   (a)   Office Created, Appointment: There shall be a department of finance,
the head of which shall be the director of finance, who shall be, or be
appointed by, the city manager with the approval of the city council.
   (b)   Qualifications: The director of finance shall have knowledge of
municipal accounting and shall have had experience in budgeting and financial
control. (Ord., 11-22-1976)
Sec. 2-143. Director-Powers And Duties:
The director of finance shall have charge of the administration of the
financial affairs of the city and to that end he shall:
   (1)   Compile the current expense estimates for the budget for the city
manager.
   (2)   Compile the capital estimates for the budgets for the city manager.
   (3)   Supervise and be responsible for the disbursement of all monies and
have control over all expenditures to ensure that budget appropriations are not
exceeded.
   (4)   Maintain a general accounting system for the city government and each
of its offices, departments and agencies; keep books for and exercise financial
budgetary control over each office, department and agency; keep separate
accounts for the items of appropriation contained in the city budget, each of
which accounts shall show the amount of the appropriation, the amounts paid
therefrom, the unpaid obligations against it, and the unencumbered balance; and
require reports of receipts and disbursements from each receiving and spending
agency of the city government to be made daily or at such intervals as he may
deem expedient.
   (5)   Submit to the council through the city manager a monthly statement of
all receipts and disbursements in sufficient detail to show the exact financial
condition of the city.
   (6)   Prepare for the city manager, as of the end of each fiscal year, a
complete financial statement and report.
   (7)   Supervise and be responsible for all special assessments for the city
government, and give such notice of special assessments as may be required by
law.
   (8)   Collect all special assessments, license fees and other revenues of
the city or for whose collection the city is responsible and receive all money
receivable by the city from the state or federal government, or from any court,
or from any office, department or agency of the city.
   (9)   Deposit all funds coming into his hands in such depositories as may be
designated by resolution of the council, or, if no such resolution is adopted,
by the city manager, subject to the requirements of law as to surety and the
payment of interest on deposits; but all such interest shall be the property of
the city and shall be accounted for and credited to the proper account.
   (10)   Approve all proposed expenditures; unless he shall certify that there
is an unencumbered balance of appropriation and available funds, no
appropriation shall be encumbered and no expenditure shall be made. (1963 Code,
ch. I, art. IV; Ord., § 1, 10-12-1968; Ord., § 1, 6-21-1976; Ord., § 1, 11-22-
1976; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-144. Work Programs; Allotments:
Before the beginning of the budget year, the head of each office, department or
agency shall submit to the city manager, when required by him, a work program
for the year, which program shall show the requested allotments of the
appropriations for such office, department or agency for the entire budget
year. The city manager shall review the requested allotments in light of the
work program of the office, department or agency concerned and may revise,
alter or change such allotments before approving the same. The aggregate of
such allotments shall not exceed the total appropriation available to said
office, department or agency for the budget year. (Ord., § 1, 11-22-1976; Ord.
058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-145. Allotments Constitute Basis Of Expenditures And Are Subject To
Revision:
The city manager shall file a copy of the allotments with the director of
finance, who shall authorize all expenditures for the offices, departments and
agencies to be made from the appropriations on the basis of approved allotments
and not otherwise. An approved allotment may be revised during the budget year
in the same manner as the original allotment was made. If, at any time during
the budget year, the city manager shall ascertain that the available income,
plus balances, for the year will be less than the total appropriations, he
shall reconsider the work programs and allotments of the several offices,
departments and agencies and revise the allotments so as to forestall the
making of expenditures in excess of the said income. (Ord., § 1, 11-22-1976)
Sec. 2-146. Transfers Of Appropriations:
The city manager may at any time transfer any unencumbered appropriation
balance or portion thereof between general classifications of expenditures
within an office, department or agency. At the request of the city manager and
within the budget year, the council may by resolution transfer any unencumbered
appropriation balance or portion thereof from one office, department or agency
to another. (Ord., § 1, 11-22-1976)
Sec. 2-147. Accounting Supervision And Control:
The director of finance shall:
   (1)   Prescribe the forms of receipts, vouchers, bills or claims to be used
by all the offices, departments and agencies of the city government.
   (2)   Audit and approve before payment all bills, invoices, payrolls and
other evidences of claims, demands or charges against the city government and
with the advice of the legal department determine the regularity, legality and
correctness of such claims, demands or charges.
   (3)   Inspect and audit any accounts or records of financial transactions
which may be maintained in any office, department or agency of the city
government apart from or subsidiary to the accounts kept in his office. (Ord.,
§ 1, 11-22-1976; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-148. When Contracts And Expenditures Prohibited:
No officer, department or agency shall, during any budget year, expend or
contract to expend any money or incur any liability, or enter into any contract
which by its terms involves the expenditure of money, for any purpose, in
excess of the amounts appropriated or that general classification of
expenditure. Any contract, verbal or written, made in violation of this chapter
shall be null and void. Any officer or employee of the city who shall violate
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall cease to hold his office or employment. Nothing in this section, however,
shall prevent the making of contracts or the spending of money for capital
improvements to be financed in whole or in part by the issuance of bonds, nor
the making of contracts of lease or for services for a period exceeding the
budget year in which such contract is made, when such contract is permitted by
law. (Ord., § 1, 11-22-1976)
Sec. 2-149. Appropriations Lapse At End Of Year:
All appropriations shall lapse at the end of the fiscal year to the extent that
they shall not have been expended or lawfully encumbered. (Ord., § 1, 11-22-
1976)
Sec. 2-150. Fees Shall Be Paid To City Government:
All fees received by any officer or employee shall belong to the city
government and shall be paid daily to the department of finance. (Ord., § 1,
11-22-1976)
Sec. 2-151. Division Of Purchases:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-152. Competitive Bidding:
Before any purchase of or contract for supplies, materials or equipment, city
departments shall give ample opportunity for competitive bidding, under such
rules and regulations, and with such exceptions, as the council may prescribe;
however, the council shall not exempt individual contracts, purchases or sales
from the requirement of competitive bidding. (Ord., § 1, 11-22-1976; Ord. 058-
2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-153. Contracts For City Improvements:
Any city improvement costing more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall
be executed by contract except where such improvement is authorized by the
council to be executed directly by a city department in conformity with
detailed plans, specifications and estimates. All such contracts, except in an
emergency situation, for more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder after such public notice and
competition as may be prescribed by ordinance, provided the city manager shall
have the power to reject all bids and advertise again. Alterations in any
contract may be made when authorized by the council upon the written
recommendation of the city manager. (Ord., § 1, 11-22-1976)
Sec. 2-154. Accounting Control Of Purchases:
Purchases shall be made pursuant to the purchasing policies, rules and
regulations as prescribed by the city council. All purchases made and contracts
executed shall be pursuant to a written requisition from the head of the
office, department or agency whose appropriation will be charged; and no
contract or order shall be issued to any vendor unless and until the director
of finance certifies that there is to the credit of such office, department or
agency a sufficient unencumbered appropriation balance to pay for the supplies,
materials, equipment or contractual services for which the contract or order is
to be issued, unless authorized by the purchasing policies, rules and
regulations prescribed by the city council. (Ord., § 1, 11-22-1976; Ord. 058-
2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-155. Returned Checks:
Any person who attempts to pay to the city for any city obligation by the use
of a check which is later dishonored by the drawer's bank shall pay to the city
a service fee in the amount of thirty five dollars ($35.00) and any additional
fees incurred by the city for the returned check. (Ord. 044-2013, 8-12-2013)
Sec. 2-156. Options On City Owned Property-Requests:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-157. Options On City Owned Property-Consideration Paid:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-158. Options On City Owned Property-Applicability:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-159. Bids On Behalf Of City At Tax Sales, Etc.:
The finance director and the city attorney are authorized to attend annually
any sale of property to enforce the collection of any tax or special assessment
and bid for and on behalf of the city all delinquent special assessments
offered for sale, on default of other bidders therefor, as provided for in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-2-98. (Ord. 82-32, § 1, 9-27-1982)
Sec. 2-160. Public Works Contract Wages:
   (a)   To the extent and as required by "an act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by state, county, city
or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under contract for
public works", approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate
of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in
construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the city is
hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for
construction work in Rock Island County area as determined by the department of
labor of the state of Illinois as of June of the current year. As required by
said act, any and all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the
department of labor of the state of Illinois shall supersede the department's
June determination and apply to any and all public works construction
undertaken by the city. The definition of any terms appearing in this section
which are also used in aforesaid act shall be the same as in that act.
   (b)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the city to the extent required by the aforesaid
act.
   (c)   The city clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by
any interested party in the main office of the city this determination of such
prevailing rate of wages.
   (d)   The city clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer, and to any association of employers and to any person of association
of employees who have filed or file their names and addresses, requesting
copies of any determination stating the particular rates and particular class
of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (e)   The city clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of this section
with both the secretary of state and the department of labor of the state.
(Ord. 85-18, §§ 1-4, 6-17-1985; Ord. 86-40, 8-11-1986; Ord. 058-2008, 8-25-
2008)
Sec. 2-161. Collection fees and costs:
In the event a fine or penalty is assessed pursuant any provision of this Code,
a default in the payment of a fine or penalty or any installment of a fine or
penalty may be collected by any means authorized for the collection of monetary
judgments. The City and the City attorney or the finance director or their
designees may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the purpose of
collecting any default in payment of any fine or penalty imposed by this Code,
or any installment of a fine or penalty. The City shall add a thirty-five
percent (35%) cost of collections to any outstanding balance that requires the
City to retain the services of a collection agency. This thirty-five percent
(35%) cost includes any default in a fine or penalty or any installment of a
fine or penalty that was previously referred to an attorney or private
collection agency and the payment of which remains outstanding.
(Ord. 48-2025, 4-28-2025)
Secs. 2-162--2-170. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. BUDGET POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Sec. 2-171. Establishment Of Policy:
There is hereby established a Budget Policy, which shall be implemented by the
City Manager in the orderly preparation of an annual budget. (Ord., 3-15-1982)
Sec. 2-172. Implementation By Manager:
The City Manager shall:
   (1)   Establish and encourage the use of efficient fiscal management
procedures in all departments of the City.
   (2)   Prepare and present to the Council an annual budget.
   (3)   Obtain detailed information from all City departments for the purpose
of compiling the budget. Such information shall be in the form required by the
City Manager. (Ord., 3-15-1982)
Sec. 2-173. Budget - Compilation; Contents:
The budget shall contain estimates of revenue available to the City for the
fiscal year for which the budget is drafted, together with recommended
expenditures for all departments. Revenue and expenditure recommendations shall
be presented in a manner which is in conformity with good fiscal management
practices. The budget shall contain actual revenues and expenditures for the
two (2) budget years immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the budget
is prepared. The budget shall show the specific fund from which each
anticipated expenditure is to be made. (Ord., 3-15-1982)
Sec. 2-174. Budget - Passage; Effect:
Passage of the annual budget by the City Council shall be in lieu of the
passage of the appropriation ordinance as heretofore required. The budget shall
be adopted by ordinance before the beginning of the fiscal year to which it
applies. Subsequent to the passage of the budget, an ordinance shall be passed
establishing Property Taxes to be levied for the fiscal year in accordance with
applicable law. This ordinance shall establish Property Taxes as may be
required by the approved budget and shall be known and referred to as the tax
levy ordinance. (Ord., 3-15-1982)
Sec. 2-175. Budget - Revision:
During the fiscal year, the City Manager may make adjustments with any
departmental budget as becomes necessary, providing that those revisions do not
delete or basically change any activity or program approved by the City Council
in the budget document. Any such adjustments shall not cause total expenditures
within the budget to exceed revenues. (Ord., 3-15-1982)
Sec. 2-176. Contingency Funds:
The annual budget may contain funds set aside for contingency purposes not to
exceed five percent (5%) of the budget. (Ord., 3-15-1982)
Sec. 2-177. Public Inspection, Notice And Hearing On Budget:
The City Manager shall make the proposed annual budget conveniently available
for public inspection at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing on the
budget as provided in this division. Notice of the availability for inspection
of the proposed budget shall be given at least ten (10) days prior to the time
of the hearing. (Ord., 3-15-1982)
Sec. 2-178. Holding Of Hearing; Notice Published:
At least one public hearing shall be held on the proposed annual budget prior
to final approval thereof. Notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper
having a general circulation in the City at least ten (10) days prior to the
date of the hearing. (Ord., 3-15-1982)
Sec. 2-179. Annual Financial Report; Home Rule:
Following the conclusion of each fiscal year the City Manager shall prepare and
submit to the City Council an annual report of the financial condition of the
City and a summary of revenues and expenditures for the preceding fiscal year.
This report shall be substantially in accordance with the recommendations of
the Government Finance Officers Association for such reports. It shall be the
responsibility of the City Manager to see that the annual fiscal report is
complete and made available for public inspection. The State law requiring an
annual appropriation ordinance and an annual Treasurer's report shall not be
applicable within the City. This division is adopted pursuant to the Illinois
Constitution and the City's power as a home rule unit. (Ord., 3-15-1982; Ord.
058-2008, 8-25-2008)
Secs. 2-180-2-200. Reserved:
ARTICLE VI. BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES GENERALLY
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 2-201. Meetings:
All boards and commissions created by the City Council shall hold meetings at
least four (4) times each year. (Ord., 6-28-1965)
Secs. 2-202-2-215. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. APPOINTMENTS; REMOVALS
Sec. 2-216. Compliance:
   (a)   All appointments to boards and commissions of the City shall be for a
three (3) year term unless otherwise provided by State Statute or which are
otherwise specifically provided by City ordinance passed subsequent to the
effective date hereof. All appointments to boards or commissions having less
than three (3) year terms prior to adoption of this section shall be for
staggered terms in the initial appointments made during the year commencing
with the effective date hereof.
   (b)   A person is not eligible to serve on a board or commission if that
person is in arrears in the payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to the
Municipality or has been convicted in any court located in the United States of
bribery or perjury.
   (c)   If, during a term of service on a board or commission, a violation of
subsection (b) of this section comes to the attention of the Mayor, the Mayor
may give a 30-day written notice to cure the violation. In the event the
violation is not cured or not susceptible to cure, the Mayor may remove the
board member or Commissioner.
   (d)   Removal of the board member or Commissioner pursuant to subsection (c)
of this section is cumulative and not exclusive of other procedures that may be
available to the City for any violation of subsection (b) of this section.
(Ord. 041-2017, 11-6-2017)
Sec. 2-217. Application Forms:
The City Clerk shall have available in his office and at the City Hall
reception desk application forms wherein citizens of the City may apply for
consideration to appointment to any board or commission in the City. Any
application received by the City Clerk pursuant to this division shall be
submitted by him to the mayor and city council for consideration at the time
appointments are considered. (Ord., § 1, 1-14-1974)
Sec. 2-218. Council Notified Of Vacancy:
Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the term of any
member of a board or commission of the city, the mayor's office shall notify
the members of city council in writing of the forthcoming vacancy. In the event
of a resignation, termination for cause or death of any member of any board or
commission of the city, the mayor's office shall notify the members of the city
council in writing of this information when the mayor's office receives the
information. (Ord., § 1, 1-14-1974)
Sec. 2-219. Consideration Of Appointments:
During the thirty (30) day period prior to the expiration of a term of any
member of a board or commission of the city, or during the thirty (30) day
period following the resignation, termination for cause or death of any member
of any board or commission, the mayor shall consult with the members of the
city council regarding possible candidates for the appointment to the vacant
position; and all applications from citizens of the city for appointment as set
forth in this division shall also be considered. (Ord., § 1, 1-14-1974)
Sec. 2-220. Decision Of Mayor And Council:
After due consideration of candidates for appointment described in this
division, the mayor shall, within the aforementioned thirty (30) day period,
appoint the member or members to the boards or commissions of the city with the
consent of the members of the city council. (Ord., § 1, 1-14-1974)
Sec. 2-221. Failure To Appoint:
In the event the mayor fails to make an appointment within the period described
in this division, or in the event the mayor makes an appointment within the
period which is not confirmed by the city council, the city council may, at the
conclusion of the thirty (30) day period, appoint, at its discretion, someone
to fill the vacant position by a simple majority vote. (Ord., § 1, 1-14-1974)
Sec. 2-222. Termination For Cause:
The mayor and city council may terminate the term of any member of any board or
commission of the city if, after a hearing thereon, it is determined that there
is due cause for the termination of the term of the member. This action shall
take place only after a majority of the city council and mayor vote to take
such action. (Ord., § 1, 1-14-1974)
Secs. 2-223-2-230. Reserved:
DIVISION 3. BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
Sec. 2-231. State Law In Effect:
All the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et seq., not
inconsistent with the provisions of this division shall remain in full force
and effect in the city. (Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980)
Sec. 2-232. Created:
There is hereby created in the city a board of fire and police commissioners,
referred to in this division as the "board". The mayor, with the consent of the
city council, shall appoint the members of the board. The board shall consist
of three (3) members, whose terms of office shall be four (4) years and until
their respective successors are appointed and have qualified for office. Each
member of the board shall take an oath of office when appointed thereto. The
members shall be subject to removal from office in the same manner as other
appointed officers in the city. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III; Ord., § 1, 1-7-
1980)
Sec. 2-233. Quorum:
A majority of the board of fire and police commissioners constitutes a quorum
for the conduct of all business. (Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980)
Sec. 2-234. Duties Generally:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall have charge of examinations
for membership in the fire and police departments and in conjunction with the
chiefs of each department, making promotions within the departments. The board
shall also hear charges which may be brought against any fireman or police
officer of the city and may determine what punishment, in accord with section
2-241 of this division, is appropriate if the board finds any of the charges
have been proved. The board shall further act as an appeal board to review any
appeals of suspensions imposed by either chief of the fire or police
departments as hereinafter provided. The board shall also perform such other
functions as provided by ordinance. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III; Ord., § 1, 2-
23-1970; Ord., § 1, 5-20-1974; Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980; Ord. 82-75, § 1, 3-14-1983)
Sec. 2-235. Appointments Generally:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall appoint all officers and
members of the fire and police departments according to rules and regulations
adopted by the board of police and fire commissioners of Rock Island, not
inconsistent with the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
10-2.1-1 et seq. (Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-236. Examinations Of Applicants; Disqualifications; Removals:
   (a)   All qualified applicants, excluding those applicants accepted by the
board of fire and police commissioners under the lateral entry option of the
police department, other than applicants for chief, shall be subject to
examination which shall be public, competitive and free to all applicants. All
applicants shall be subject to reasonable limitations as to health, habits and
moral character in order to qualify for examination. The board of police and
fire commissioners of Rock Island shall establish rules and regulations setting
forth qualifications and disqualifications of applicants. The board of police
and fire commissioners shall, in accordance with its regulations, determine
whether applicants are qualified or disqualified.
   (b)   The examinations shall be practical in character and relate to those
matters which will fairly test the capacity of the persons examined to
discharge the duties of the positions to which they seek appointment. The
examinations may include, but not be limited to: 1) a polygraph test; 2) a
written examination; 3) an oral examination; 4) a test of physical agility; 5)
a psychological test; and 6) a medical examination. No applicant shall be
examined concerning his political or religious opinions or affiliations. The
examination of applicants shall be as set forth by rules and regulations of the
board of police and fire commissioners of Rock Island. The examinations shall
be conducted by or at the direction of the board of police and fire
commissioners. (Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980; Ord., § 2, 1-12-1981; Ord. 058-2008, § 1,
8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-237. Probationary Period:
   (a)   All original appointments are subject to a probationary period of not
less than twelve (12) months and shall be served by all members or officers of
the fire or police department. Probationary periods may be extended and are
subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the board of police and fire
commissioners of Rock Island. A member or officer shall only obtain "certified
status" upon completion of the probationary period and successful completion of
the basic training course prescribed by the Illinois government law enforcement
officers training board, for police officers or the certified firefighter II
course as prescribed by the Illinois fire protection personnel standard and
education commission for firefighters, within the probationary period.
   (b)   Any employee promoted to a higher classification shall be subject to a
probationary period and shall not receive a permanent appointment for six (6)
months and may be returned to his previous certified status, for cause, within
six (6) months from the date of promotion. This time period may be extended an
additional six (6) months by the chief. The promoted employee shall retain the
right to reemployment with the rank from which he was promoted and hold
certified status providing the previous rank still exists, and the employee is
still otherwise qualified. Upon successful completion of the probationary
period, the promoted employee, upon the written request of the fire or police
chief, shall attain "certified" status in the new title and may be listed by
the board in the official record of "certified" employees for the new title.
(Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-238. Temporary Appointments 1 :
In order to prevent a stoppage of public business, to meet extraordinary
emergencies or to prevent material impairment to the fire or police department,
the police or fire chief, with the approval of the city manager, may make
temporary appointments to remain in force until regular appointments may be
made under the provisions of this division, but never to exceed six (6)
consecutive months. (Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-16.
Sec. 2-239. Promotions  2  :
   (a)   Police Department:
      (1)   Basis; Eligibility: The board of fire and police commissioners, by
its rules, shall provide for promotion in the police department on the basis of
ascertained merit, seniority in service and examinations, and shall provide
whenever it is practical, that vacancies be filled by promotion. All
examinations for promotion shall be competitive. All certified officers or
members of the police department appearing on the record of certified employees
maintained by the commission who meet the necessary training and experience
requirements, as specified in the fire and police commission rules and
regulations, shall be eligible to take the promotional examination for a
vacancy in the police department.
      (2)   Promotional Examination: The promotional examination procedures
shall be established by the board of police and fire commissioners of Rock
Island. Promotional examinations shall consist of a written examination, an
oral interview, seniority, and military credit where provided by statute.
      (3)   Eligibility List: All persons who have successfully completed the
promotional examinations shall be certified to the promotional list by the
board in the order of their scores. An eligibility list for promotion shall be
in effect for a period of twenty four (24) months unless during that period of
twenty four (24) months a vacancy or vacancies existed which were not filled by
promotion as provided herein. In the event that a vacancy or vacancies existed
for a period of time during the twenty four (24) months, eligibility list shall
be extended for a period of time equal to the time that the vacancy or
vacancies existed during the twenty four (24) month period. At the end of the
twenty four (24) month period or any extensions thereof which is heretofore
described, a new list shall be compiled.
      (4)   Selection: At the time that a promotion is required in the police
department, the top five (5) individuals on the "certified promotion list"
shall be eligible to be considered for the promotion. The decision as to the
person to be promoted to the open position shall be determined in the following
manner: Each of the top five (5) individuals for the promotional position shall
be evaluated by the board and the chief of the department involved, jointly.
Upon completion of all five (5) evaluations with the eligible candidates, the
board and the chief of the department involved shall make a determination as to
the candidate to receive the promotion. The decision as to which candidate
shall be promoted shall be determined by a vote of the board and the chief,
with each commissioner having one vote and the chief of the department involved
having two (2) votes.
      (5)   Appointment: After a decision is made as aforesaid, the candidate
to be appointed shall be appointed by the board to his new position subject to
final certification upon recommendation as provided by the police chief, as
stated in the fire and police commission rules and regulations.
   (b)   Fire Department:
      (1)   The board of fire and police commissioners shall provide for
promotion for each rank in the fire department, except for the fire chief,
according to the rules and regulations which are in compliance with the fire
department promotions act 3 of 2003. The board of fire and police commissioners
may promulgate rules and regulations supplementing the fire department
promotions act but may not promulgate any rule or regulation which alters or
modifies a specific standard contained in the fire department promotions act.
      (2)   The board of fire and police commissioners, in consultation with
the fire chief, shall determine when a vacancy exists. When a vacancy exists it
shall be filled as soon as possible from the list of qualified individuals. No
employee is eligible for promotion who does not have at least three (3) years
of seniority in the Rock Island fire department.
      (3)   Employees eligible for promotion are those who appear on the
promotion list for each rank. An individual's position on a promotion list
shall be determined by a combination of factors including a written
examination, ascertained merit, seniority and subjective evaluations. Each
factor shall be measured in terms of one hundred (100) points per factor but
the score for each factor shall then be reduced by the weight assigned to each
factor. The total weighted score may be subsequently augmented by the
application of any veteran's preference as provided by applicable law. (Ord., §
1, 1-7-1980; Ord., § 1, 1-12-1981; Ord. 88-48, § 1, 8-22-1988; Ord. 88-49, § 1,
8-22-1988; Ord. 004-2005, § 1, 1-24-2005; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
 
Notes
2 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-15.
3 50 ILCS 742.
Sec. 2-240. Lateral Entry Option:
Any person who is presently employed full time as a sworn, commissioned law
enforcement officer, and who has successfully completed a certified state basic
course at a law enforcement academy may apply to the board for consideration
under the police lateral entry option. If the board of fire and police
commissioners, in its discretion, accepts the applicant's application under
this program, he or she shall have the option of taking the written exam or in
lieu thereof, accepting a score of seventy percent (70%) without being required
to take the exam. In addition to the foregoing, each applicant shall be
required to take an oral examination and a medical examination by the city
physician and the pension board physician if the applicant is eligible for the
pension program. In addition, the board shall require the applicant to take a
test of physical agility and a psychological test. Upon successful completion
of the foregoing, the applicant's name shall be placed on the list of certified
eligibles by the board as set forth in section 2-235 of this division. (Ord., §
3, 1-12-1981; Ord. 87-46, § 1, 4-27-1987)
Sec. 2-241. Suspension; Demotion; Removal; Discharge:
   (a)   Except as hereinafter provided and as provided by the police and fire
commission regulations, no "certified" member of the fire or police department
shall be suspended, removed, demoted or discharged, except upon a hearing
before the board of police and fire commissioners and a finding by the board
that the charge or charges of misconduct have been proven by a preponderance of
the evidence. All hearings and hearing procedures shall be as set forth in the
police and fire commission regulations.
   (b)   A demotion is an assignment of an officer for cause to a position in a
lower class or rank and may be imposed only by the board after a hearing, as
provided in this section.
   (c)   The chiefs of the fire and police department may suspend for cause,
without pay, a member of his department for a period of not more than five (5)
days. Any member so suspended by the fire or police chief as aforesaid shall
have the right to appeal that action within seven (7) calendar days from
notification thereof to the board in writing. Any of the aforementioned
disciplinary action by the chiefs shall be in writing and shall contain a
statement of facts which show good cause for the disciplinary action. The
notice of disciplinary action shall be served upon the officer personally or by
certified mail.
   (d)   If an appeal of a suspension imposed by a chief is filed, the board of
fire and police commissioners shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing of the
appeal to be commenced within thirty (30) days of the filing thereof, which
hearing may be continued from time to time. In the event the board determines
that there was cause for the action taken by the chief, the action shall be
affirmed by the board. If the board determines that the charges are not
sustained or that there was not just cause for the action taken, then the
officer shall be reimbursed for any portion of his wages he might be entitled
to after the decision of the board. The board shall also have the authority to
modify the disciplinary action taken against the particular individual
involved, to include any discipline which the board has authority to impose
under this division subject to any limitations contained in any applicable
contract.
   (e)   In the conduct of any hearing on written charges, or on any appeal,
each member of the board shall have the power to administer oaths and
affirmations; and the board shall have the power to secure by its subpoena both
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books and
papers relevant to the hearing. (Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980; Ord. 82-75, § 2, 3-14-
1983; Ord. 058-2008, § 1, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 2-242. Administrative Review Law:
The provisions of the administrative review law and all amendments and
modifications thereof and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to
and govern all proceedings for the judicial review of final administrative
decisions of the board of fire and police commissioners under this division.
The term "administrative decision" is defined as in section 3-101 of the code
of civil procedure  4  . (Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980)
 
Notes
4 735 ILCS 5/3-101.
Sec. 2-243. Retirement:
The age for retirement of certified members or officers of the fire or police
department in the service of the city shall be as required by state law. The
city manager may extend the retirement date for one year; such extension may be
repeated on a year to year basis. Such mandatory age shall not apply to the
fire chief or police chief. (Ord., § 1, 1-7-1980)
Secs. 2-244--2-255. Reserved:
DIVISION 4. FAIR HOUSING BOARD 43
 
Notes
   Cross reference--Housing code, §
43 7-181 et seq.
   State law references--Human rights in real estate transactions, 775 ILCS 5/
   3-101 et seq.; fair housing ordinances, 65 ILCS 5/11-11.1-1.
Sec. 2-256. Application Of Division:
   (a)   Nothing in this division shall require an owner to offer property to
the public at large before selling or renting it, nor shall this division be
deemed to prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or
buyers for any reason other than religion, race or ancestry.
   (b)   Nothing in this division shall require an owner to offer property for
sale or lease to any person if the owner has any reason to believe that such
person is not negotiating for the purchase or lease of such property in good
faith. (Ord., § 3, 10-9-1967)
Sec. 2-257. Generally:
   (a)   Established: For the purpose of this division the human rights
commission of the city shall serve as the fair housing board of the city.
   (b)   Duties: It shall be the duty of the fair housing board to:
      (1)   Process written and signed complaints of discrimination from bona
fide applicants for housing upon the filing of complaints with the city clerk
and the payment of the filing fee.
      (2)   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings
of fact and make recommendations to the city council in accordance with the
provisions of this division.
      (3)   Render from time to time, but not less than once a year, a written
report of its activities to the city council.
      (4)   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out
the purposes and provisions of this division.
   (c)   Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without compensation
from the city. The city shall appropriate and make available funds for any
necessary secretarial or investigative expenses incurred by the board in
performing its duties.
   (d)   Procedures For Complaints:
      (1)   Filing: Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of the
provisions of this division shall file a written complaint setting forth his
grievance with the city clerk. The complaint shall state the name and address
of the complainant and of the persons against whom the complaint is brought and
shall also state the alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this
division.
      (2)   Duty Of Clerk: The city clerk shall immediately transmit the
complaint to the fair housing board.
      (3)   Investigation; Notice Of Hearing: After the filing of any
complaint, the chairman of the board shall designate two (2) of the members to
make a prompt investigation in connection therewith; and if such members shall
determine after such investigation that probable cause exists for crediting the
allegations of the complaint, they shall immediately endeavor to eliminate the
unlawful discriminatory practice complained of by conference, conciliation and
persuasion. In case of failure so to eliminate such practice, or in advance
thereof, if in their judgment circumstances so warrant, they shall cause to be
issued and served in the name of the board a written notice, together with a
copy of such complaint to all parties, of a full hearing of the complaint, at a
time and place to be specified in such notice. The person charged with having
engaged in or engaging in the unfair housing practices shall have the right to
file an answer to the complaint, to appear at the hearing in person or to be
represented by counsel, and to submit testimony. The complainant shall be
allowed to present testimony in person or by counsel.
      (4)   Hearing; Report: Such hearing shall be conducted by the board. The
board shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence prevailing in courts
of law or equity. The board shall have full power to subpoena witnesses and
pertinent documents, which power may be enforced by the board by proper
petition to the circuit court of the judicial circuit. The board shall have
power to administer oaths and to take sworn testimony. At the conclusion of the
hearing the board shall render a written report and recommendations, which
shall be served by mail upon the parties. No report shall be delayed more than
sixty (60) days after the date of issuance of notice for commencement of the
first hearing.
      (5)   Prosecution: In addition thereto, the board may include as part of
its report a recommendation to the city council that the city attorney
prosecute any person or persons who violated any of the provisions of this
division. The penalty for violation of this division shall be a fine not
exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      (6)   Revocation Of License: In addition thereto, the city council may
direct the corporation counsel to file with the department of registration and
education of the state a complaint against any real estate broker found guilty
of violating any provision of this division, seeking suspension or revocation
of the license issued to such broker by the state. (Ord., § 2, 10-9-1967; Ord.,
§ 1, 11-20-1967; Ord., §§ 1, 2, 3-8-1971; Ord. 87-56, § 1, 6-1-1987; Ord. 011-
2008, 2-4-2008)
Sec. 2-258. Unfair Practices:
   (a)   It shall be an unfair practice and unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Publish, circulate, issue or display, or cause to be published,
circulated, issued or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, sign
or other writing of any kind relating to the sale, rental or leasing of any
housing accommodation within the city which will indicate or express any
limitation or discrimination in the sale, rental or leasing of such housing
accommodation, predicated upon the race, religion or ancestry of any
prospective buyer, lessee or renter of such property.
      (2)   Discriminate or participate in discrimination in connection with
borrowing or lending of money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or
otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any housing
accommodation in the city because of race, religion or ancestry.
      (3)   Solicit for sale, lease or listing for sale or lease of any housing
accommodation within the city on the grounds of loss of value due to the
present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person or persons of
any particular race, religion or ancestry.
      (4)   Distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation in the
city to sell or lease his property because of any present or prospective change
in the race, religion or ancestry of persons in the neighborhood.
      (5)   Make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation for the
purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or listing for sale of any
housing accommodation by representing that the presence or anticipated presence
of persons of any particular race, religion or ancestry in the area will or may
result in the lowering of property values in the block, neighborhood or area in
which the property is located.
      (6)   Deliberately and knowingly refuse examination of any listing of
residential real estate within the city to any person because of race, religion
or ancestry.
      (7)   Refuse to sell, lease or rent any real estate for residential
purposes within the city because of the race, religion or ancestry of the
proposed buyer or renter.
   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the rental of a room
or rooms in a single-family dwelling and the rental of an apartment in an owner
occupied two-family building. (Ord., § 1, 10-9-1967)
Secs. 2-259--2-270. Reserved.
DIVISION 5. HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
Sec. 2-271. Generally:
   (a)   Created: There is hereby created the Rock Island Human Rights
Commission, referred to in this division as the “commission”, which shall
consist of thirteen (13) members, who are residents of the city. The membership
of the commission shall be broadly representative of the community, such as
representatives of the several religious faiths and of racial and nationality
groups. The membership shall strive to include one member of the legal
profession, one member from a lending institution, and one member who is a
realtor. All thirteen members of the commission shall meet for the purposes of
community engagement, persuasion, and education to eliminate prejudice and
discrimination based on race, color, creed, age, sex, national origin,
ancestry, religion, marital status, physical or mental disability, military
status, and sexual orientation in employment, housing and public
accommodations.
   (b)   The commission shall protect all citizens from retaliation resulting
from filing a complaint of discrimination in violation of this division.
   (c)   Objectives: The objectives of the commission shall be:
      (1)   To strive to remove the artificial barriers and controls which deny
persons of the right to choose their own homes.
      (2)   To seek through law, education, persuasion, negotiation and
mediation the elimination of discrimination in employment, including, but not
limited to, selection, status, eligibility, promotion, transfer,
apprenticeship, membership, terms and conditions, privileges or benefits
directly or indirectly related to one’s employment which may be affected by an
employer, employment agency or labor organization.
      (3)   To implement programs with the chief of police that address the
diversity of the community.
      (4)   To stimulate active involvement of the business community in social
programs encouraging economic opportunity and full employment for all citizens.
      (5)   To develop a procedure to anticipate, prepare for and help ease
community discomfort that may arise from racial tensions.
      (6)   To act as a mediator and conciliator in instances of tension
erupting into civil disturbance or riots, and to offer recommendations that
hasten necessary change which might eliminate the reoccurrence of upheaval.
      (7)   To work for greater citizen participation in the planning and
execution of public policy in all phases of municipal life.
   (d)   Appointments: The members of the commission shall be appointed by the
mayor with the approval of the city council. Special appointments to the
commission shall be made by the mayor with the approval of the city council as
vacancies occur.
   (e)   Term: Each member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years,
and terms shall be staggered to the extent practicable to assure thirteen (13)
members at all times.
   (f)   Meetings: The commission as a whole shall meet monthly at the city
hall or at other venues at the call of the chairman and at such further times
as meetings are called by the chairman or majority of the members of said
commission. A majority of the commissioners shall constitute a quorum which
shall be required before any business may be conducted. At the April meeting of
the commission, commission members shall elect a chair and vice chair who shall
serve for a term of one year. (1963 Code, ch. II, art. III; Ord., § 1, 2-13-
1967; Ord., § 1, 6-23-1975; Ord. 87-55, § 1, 6-1-1987; Ord. 011-2008, 2-4-2008;
Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-272. General Definitions:
   When used in this Act, unless the context requires otherwise, the term:
   (a)   Age. “Age” means the chronological age of a person who is at least 40
years old, except with regard to any practice described in connection with
employment practices, insofar as that practice
concerns training or apprenticeship programs. In the case of training or
apprenticeship programs, in connection with employment practices, “age” means
the chronological age of a person who is 18 but not yet 40 years old.
   (b)   Aggrieved party. “Aggrieved party” means a person who is alleged or
proved to have been injured by a civil rights violation or believes he or she
will be injured by a civil rights violation under Article 3 that is about to
occur.
   (b-5)   Arrest record. “Arrest record” means:
      (1)   An arrest not leading to a conviction;
      (2)   A juvenile record; or
      (3)   Criminal history record information ordered expunged, sealed, or
impounded under Section 5.2 of the Criminal Identification Act [ILCS 2630/5.2].
   (c)   Charge. “Charge” means an allegation filed with the commission
officers by an aggrieved party or initiated by the commission officers under
the commission’s authority.
   (d)   Civil rights violation. “Civil rights violation” includes and shall be
limited to only those specific acts defined as violations in the several
articles of this ordinance.
   (e)   Commission. “Commission” means the Human Rights Commission created by
this Act.
   (f)   Complaint. “Complaint” means the formal pleading filed by the
Commission officers with the Commission following an investigation and finding
of substantial evidence of a civil rights violation.
   (g)   Complainant. “Complainant” means a person including the Commission
officers who files a charge of civil rights violation with the Commission
officers.
   (g-5)   Conviction record. “Conviction record” means information indicating
that a person has been convicted of a felony, misdemeanor or other criminal
offense, placed on probation, fined, imprisoned, or paroled pursuant to any law
enforcement or military authority.
   (h)   Officer. One or more of the Commission officers.
   (i)   Disability. “Disability” means a determinable physical or mental
characteristic of a person, including, but not limited to, a determinable
physical characteristic which necessitates the person’s use of a guide, hearing
or support dog, the history of such characteristic, or the perception of such
characteristic by the person complained against, which may result from disease,
injury, congenital condition of birth or functional disorder and which
characteristic:
      (1)   For purposes of employment practices, is unrelated to the person’s
ability to perform the duties of a particular job or position and, pursuant to
the provisions of this ordinance, a person’s illegal use of drugs or alcohol is
not a disability;
      (2)   For purposes of real estate transactions, is unrelated to the
person’s ability to acquire, rent, or maintain a housing accommodation;
      (3)   For purposes of public accommodations, is unrelated to a person’s
ability to utilize and benefit from a place of public accommodation;
   (j)   Marital status. “Marital status” means the legal status of being
married, single, separated, divorced, or widowed.
   (j-1)   Military status. “Military status” means a person’s status on active
duty in or status as a veteran of the armed forces of the United States, status
as a current member or veteran of any reserve component of the armed forces of
the United States.
   (k)   National origin. “National origin” means the place in which a person
or one of his or her ancestors was born.
   (k-5)   “Order of protection status” means a person’s status as being a
person protected under an order of protection issued pursuant to the Illinois
Domestic Violence Act of 1986 [750 ILCS 60/101 et seq.], Article 112A of the
Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963 [725 ILCS 5/112A-1 et seq.], the Stalking No
Contact Order Act, or the Civil No Contact Order Act [740 ILCS 22/101 et seq.],
or an order of protection issued by a court of another state.
   (l)   Person. “Person” includes one or more individuals, partnerships,
associations or organizations, labor organizations, labor unions, joint
apprenticeship committees, or union labor associations, corporations, the State
of Illinois and its instrumentalities, political subdivisions, units of local
government, legal representatives, trustees in bankruptcy or receivers.
   (m)   Pregnancy. “Pregnancy” means pregnancy, childbirth, or medical or
common conditions related to pregnancy or childbirth.
   (m-5)   Public contract. “Public contract” includes every contract to which
the State, any of its political subdivisions, or any municipal corporation is a
party.
   (n)   Religion. “Religion” has the meaning ascribed to it in 775 ILCS 5/2-
101.
   (o)   Sex. “Sex” means the status of being male or female.
   (o-1)   Sexual orientation. “Sexual orientation” means actual or perceived
heterosexuality, homosexuality, bisexuality, or gender-related identity,
whether or not traditionally associated with the person’s designated sex at
birth. “Sexual orientation” does not include a physical or sexual attraction to
a minor by an adult.
   (p)   Unfavorable military discharge. “Unfavorable military discharge”
includes discharges from the Armed Forces of the United States, their Reserve
components, or any National Guard or Naval Militia which are classified as RE-
3 or the equivalent thereof, but does not include those characterized as RE-
4 or “Dishonorable”.
   (q)   Unlawful discrimination. “Unlawful discrimination” means
discrimination against a person because of his or her actual or perceived:
race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, sex, marital status,
order of protection status, disability, military status, sexual orientation,
pregnancy, or unfavorable discharge from military service as those terms are
defined in this Section. (1963 Code, ch. II, art. III; Ord., §§ 2, 3, 6-23-
1975; Ord. 011-2008, 2-4-2008; Ord. 005-2013, 2-11-2013; Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-
2022)
Sec. 2-273. Definitions; Employment:
The following definitions are applicable strictly in the context of this
Article.
   Citizenship Status. “Citizenship status” means the status of being:
   (1)   A born U.S. citizen;
   (2)   A naturalized U.S. citizen;
   (3)   A U.S. national; or
   (4)   A person born outside the United States and not a U.S. citizen who is
not an unauthorized alien and who is protected from discrimination under the
provisions of Section 1324b of Title 8 of the United States Code, as now or
hereafter amended.
   Eligible Bidder. “Eligible bidder” means a person who, prior to contract
award or prior to bid opening for City contracts for construction or
construction-related services, has filed with the Officer a properly completed,
sworn and currently valid employer report form, pursuant to the Officer’s
regulations. The provisions of this Article relating to eligible bidders apply
only to bids on contracts with the City and its departments, agencies, boards,
and commissions, and the provisions do not apply to bids on contracts with
units of local government or school districts.
   Employee.
   (1)   “Employee” includes:
      a.   Any individual performing services for remuneration within this City
for an employer;
      b.   An apprentice;
      c.   An applicant for any apprenticeship.
      For purposes of the employment provisions of this Act, “employee” also
includes an unpaid intern. An unpaid intern is a person who performs work for
an employer under the following circumstances:
         1.   The employer is not committed to hiring the person performing the
work at the conclusion of the intern’s tenure;
         2.   The employer and the person performing the work agree that the
person is not entitled to wages for the work performed; and
         3.   The work performed:
            (i)    Supplements training given in an educational environment
that may enhance the employability of the intern;
            (ii)   Provides experience for the benefit of the person performing
the work;
            (iii)   Does not displace regular employees;
            (iv)   Is performed under the close supervision of existing staff;
and
            (v)   Provides no immediate advantage to the employer providing the
training and may occasionally impede the operations of the employer.
   (2)   Employee does not include:
      a.   Individuals employed by persons who are not “employers” as defined
by this ordinance;
      b.   Elected public officials or the members of their immediate personal
staffs;
      c.   Principal administrative officers of the City or of any political
subdivision, municipal corporation or other governmental unit or agency;
      d.   A person in a vocational rehabilitation facility certified under
federal law who has been designated an evaluee, trainee, or work activity
client.
   Employer.
   (1)   “Employer” includes:
      a.   Any person employing one or more employees within the City during 20
or more calendar weeks within the calendar year of or preceding the alleged
violation;
      b.   Any person employing one or more employees when a complainant
alleges civil rights violation due to unlawful discrimination based upon his or
her physical or mental disability unrelated to ability, pregnancy, or sexual
harassment;
      c.   Any party to a public contract without regard to the number of
employees;
      d.   A joint apprenticeship or training committee without regard to the
number of employees.
   (2)   “Employer” does not include any place of worship, religious
corporation, association, educational institution, society, or non-profit
nursing institution conducted by and for those who rely upon treatment by
prayer through spiritual means in accordance with the tenets of a recognized
church or religious denomination with respect to the employment of individuals
of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such
place of worship, corporation, association, educational institution, society or
non-profit nursing institution of its activities.
   Employment Agency. “Employment Agency” includes both public and private
employment agencies and any person, labor organization, or labor union having a
hiring hall or hiring office regularly undertaking, with or without
compensation, to procure opportunities to work, or to procure, recruit, refer
or place employees.
   Harassment. “Harassment” means any unwelcome conduct on the basis of an
individual’s actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin,
ancestry, age, sex, marital status, order of protection status, disability,
military status, sexual orientation, pregnancy, unfavorable discharge from
military service, or citizenship status that has the purpose or effect of
substantially interfering with the individual’s work performance or creating an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment. For purposes of this
definition, the phrase “working environment” is not limited to a physical
location an employee is assigned to perform his or her duties.
   Labor Organization. “Labor Organization” includes any organization, labor
union, craft union, or any voluntary unincorporated association designed to
further the cause of the rights of union labor which is constituted for the
purpose, in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or
apprenticeships or applications for apprenticeships, or of other mutual aid or
protection in connection with employment, including apprenticeships or
applications for apprenticeships.
   Public Officer. “Public officer” means a person who is elected to office
pursuant to the Constitution or a statute or ordinance, or who is appointed to
an office which is established, and the qualifications and duties of which are
prescribed, by the Constitution or a statute or ordinance, to discharge a
public duty for the City, agency or department thereof or unit of local
government.
   Religion. “Religion” with respect to employers includes all aspects of
religious observance and practice, as well as belief, unless an employer
demonstrates that he is unable to reasonably accommodate an employee’s or
prospective employee’s religious observance or practice without undue hardship
on the conduct of the employer’s business.
   Sexual Harassment. “Sexual harassment” means any unwelcome sexual advances
or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a sexual nature when (1)
submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or
condition of an individual’s employment, (2) submission to or rejection of such
conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment decisions
affecting such individual, or (3) such conduct has the purpose or effect of
substantially interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an
intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment.
   For purposes of this definition, the phrase “working environment” is not
limited to a physical location an employee is assigned to perform his or her
duties. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-273.1. Civil Rights Violations - Employment:
It is a civil rights violation:
   (a)   Employers. For any employer to refuse to hire, to segregate, to engage
in harassment as defined in this ordinance, or to act with respect to
recruitment, hiring, promotion, renewal of employment, selection for training
or apprenticeship, discharge, discipline, tenure or terms, privileges or
conditions of employment on the basis of unlawful discrimination or citizenship
status. An employer is responsible for harassment by the employer’s
nonmanagerial and nonsupervisory employees only if the employer becomes aware
of the conduct and fails to take reasonable corrective measures.
   (a-5)   Language. For an employer to impose a restriction that has the
effect of prohibiting a language from being spoken by an employee in
communications that are unrelated to the employee’s duties.
      For the purposes of this subdivision, “language” does not include such
things as slang, jargon, profanity, vulgarity, and employees’ use of non-
English languages.
   (a-10)   Harassment of nonemployees. For any employer, employment agency, or
labor organization to engage in harassment of nonemployees in the workplace. An
employer is responsible for harassment of nonemployees by the employer’s
nonmanagerial and nonsupervisory employees only if the employer becomes aware
of the conduct and fails to take reasonable corrective measures. For the
purposes of this subdivision (a-10), “nonemployee” means a person who is not
otherwise an employee of the employer and is directly performing services for
the employer pursuant to a contract with that employer. “Nonemployee” includes
contractors and consultants.
   (b)   Employment agency. For any employment agency to fail or refuse to
classify properly, accept applications and register for employment referral or
apprenticeship referral, refer for employment, or refer for apprenticeship on
the basis of unlawful discrimination or citizenship status or to accept from
any person any job order, requisition or request for referral of applicants for
employment or apprenticeship which makes or has the effect of making unlawful
discrimination or discrimination on the basis of citizenship status a condition
of referral.
   (c)   Labor organization. For any labor organization to limit, segregate or
classify its membership, or to limit employment opportunities, selection and
training for apprenticeship in any trade or craft, or otherwise to take, or
fail to take, any action which affects adversely any person’s status as an
employee or as an applicant for employment or as an apprentice, or as an
applicant for apprenticeships, or wages, tenure, hours of employment or
apprenticeship conditions on the basis of unlawful discrimination or
citizenship status.
   (d)   Sexual harassment. For any employer, employee, agent of any employer,
employment agency or labor organization to engage in sexual harassment;
provided, that an employer shall be responsible for sexual harassment of the
employer’s employees by nonemployees or nonmanagerial and nonsupervisory
employees only if the employer becomes aware of the conduct and fails to take
reasonable corrective measures.
   (d-5)   Sexual harassment of nonemployees. For any employer, employee, agent
of any employer, employment agency, or labor organization to engage in sexual
harassment of nonemployees in the workplace. An employer is responsible for
sexual harassment of nonemployees by the employer’s nonmanagerial and
nonsupervisory employees only if the employer becomes aware of the conduct and
fails to take reasonable corrective measures. For the purposes of this
subdivision (d-5), “nonemployee” means a person who is not otherwise an
employee of the employer and is directly performing services for the employer
pursuant to a contract with that employer. “Nonemployee” includes contractors
and consultants.
   (e-5)   Religious discrimination. For any employer to impose upon a person
as a condition of obtaining or retaining employment, including opportunities
for promotion, advancement, or transfer, any terms or conditions that would
require such person to violate or forgo a sincerely held practice of his or her
religion including, but not limited to, the wearing of any attire, clothing, or
facial hair in accordance with the requirements of his or her religion, unless,
after engaging in a bona fide effort, the employer demonstrates that it is
unable to reasonably accommodate the employee’s or prospective employee’s
sincerely held religious belief, practice, or observance without undue hardship
on the conduct of the employer’s business.
      Nothing in this Section prohibits an employer from enacting a dress code
or grooming policy that may include restrictions on attire, clothing, or facial
hair to maintain workplace safety or food sanitation.
   (f)   Training and apprenticeship programs. For any employer, employment
agency or labor organization to discriminate against a person on the basis of
age in the selection, referral for, or conduct of apprenticeship or training
programs.
   (g)   Immigration-related practices.
      (1)   For an employer to request for purposes of satisfying the
requirements of Section 1324a(b) of Title 8 of the United States Code, as now
or hereafter amended, more or different documents than are required under such
Section or to refuse to honor documents tendered that on their face reasonably
appear to be genuine; or
      (2)   For an employer participating in the E-Verify Program, as
authorized by 8 U.S.C. 1324a, Notes, Pilot Programs for Employment Eligibility
Confirmation (enacted by PL 104-208, div. C title IV, subtitle A) to refuse to
hire, to segregate, or to act with respect to recruitment, hiring, promotion,
renewal of employment, selection for training or apprenticeship, discharge,
discipline, tenure or terms, privileges or conditions of employment without
following the procedures under the E-Verify Program.
   (h)   Pregnancy. For an employer to refuse to hire, to segregate, or to act
with respect to recruitment, hiring, promotion, renewal of employment,
selection for training or apprenticeship, discharge, discipline, tenure or
terms, privileges or conditions of employment on the basis of pregnancy,
childbirth, or medical or common conditions related to pregnancy or childbirth.
Women affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or medical or common conditions
related to pregnancy or childbirth shall be treated the same for all
employment-related purposes, including receipt of benefits under fringe benefit
programs, as other persons not so affected but similar in their ability or
inability to work, regardless of the source of the inability to work or
employment classification or status.
   (i)   Pregnancy; reasonable accommodations.
      (1)   If after a job applicant or employee, including a part-time, full-
time, or probationary employee, requests a reasonable accommodation, for an
employer to not make reasonable accommodations for any medical or common
condition of a job applicant or employee related to pregnancy or childbirth,
unless the employer can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an
undue hardship on the ordinary operation of the business of the employer. The
employer may request documentation from the employee’s health care provider
concerning the need for the requested reasonable accommodation or
accommodations to the same extent documentation is requested for conditions
related to disability if the employer’s request for documentation is job-
related and consistent with business necessity. The employer may require only
the medical justification for the requested accommodation or accommodations, a
description of the reasonable accommodation or accommodations medically
advisable, the date the reasonable accommodation or accommodations became
medically advisable, and the probable duration of the reasonable accommodation
or accommodations. It is the duty of the individual seeking a reasonable
accommodation or accommodations to submit to the employer any documentation
that is requested in accordance with this paragraph. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this paragraph, the employer may require documentation by the
employee’s health care provider to determine compliance with other laws. The
employee and employer shall engage in a timely, good faith, and meaningful
exchange to determine effective reasonable accommodations.
      (2)   For an employer to deny employment opportunities or benefits to or
take adverse action against an otherwise qualified job applicant or employee,
including a part-time, full-time, or probationary employee, if the denial or
adverse action is based on the need of the employer to make reasonable
accommodations to the known medical or common conditions related to the
pregnancy or childbirth of the applicant or employee.
      (3)   For an employer to require a job applicant or employee, including a
part-time, full-time, or probationary employee, affected by pregnancy,
childbirth, or medical or common conditions related to pregnancy or childbirth
to accept an accommodation when the applicant or employee did not request an
accommodation and the applicant or employee chooses not to accept the
employer’s accommodation.
      (4)   For an employer to require an employee, including a part-time,
full-time, or probationary employee, to take leave under any leave law or
policy of the employer if another reasonable accommodation can be provided to
the known medical or common conditions related to the pregnancy or childbirth
of an employee. No employer shall fail or refuse to reinstate the employee
affected by pregnancy, childbirth, or medical or common conditions related to
pregnancy or childbirth to her original job or to an equivalent position with
equivalent pay and accumulated seniority, retirement, fringe benefits, and
other applicable service credits upon her signifying her intent to return or
when her need for reasonable accommodation ceases, unless the employer can
demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the
ordinary operation of the business of the employer.
   For the purposes of this subdivision (i), “reasonable accommodations” means
reasonable modifications or adjustments to the job application process or work
environment, or to the manner or circumstances under which the position desired
or held is customarily performed, that enable an applicant or employee affected
by pregnancy, childbirth, or medical or common conditions related to pregnancy
or childbirth to be considered for the position the applicant desires or to
perform the essential functions of that position, and may include, but is not
limited to: more frequent or longer bathroom breaks, breaks for increased water
intake, and breaks for periodic rest; private non-bathroom space for expressing
breast milk and breastfeeding; seating; assistance with manual labor; light
duty; temporary transfer to a less strenuous or hazardous position; the
provision of an accessible worksite; acquisition or modification of equipment;
job restructuring; a part-time or modified work schedule; appropriate
adjustment or modifications of examinations, training materials, or policies;
reassignment to a vacant position; time off to recover from conditions related
to childbirth; and leave necessitated by pregnancy, childbirth, or medical or
common conditions resulting from pregnancy or childbirth.
   For the purposes of this subdivision (i), “undue hardship” means an action
that is prohibitively expensive or disruptive when considered in light of the
following factors: (i) the nature and cost of the accommodation needed; (ii)
the overall financial resources of the facility or facilities involved in the
provision of the reasonable accommodation, the number of persons employed at
the facility, the effect on expenses and resources, or the impact otherwise of
the accommodation upon the operation of the facility; (iii) the overall
financial resources of the employer, the overall size of the business of the
employer with respect to the number of its employees, and the number, type, and
location of its facilities; and (iv) the type of operation or operations of the
employer, including the composition, structure, and functions of the workforce
of the employer, the geographic separateness, administrative, or fiscal
relationship of the facility or facilities in question to the employer. The
employer has the burden of proving undue hardship. The fact that the employer
provides or would be required to provide a similar accommodation to similarly
situated employees creates a rebuttable presumption that the accommodation does
not impose an undue hardship on the employer.
   No employer is required by this subdivision (i) to create additional
employment that the employer would not otherwise have created, unless the
employer does so or would do so for other classes of employees who need
accommodation. The employer is not required to discharge any employee, transfer
any employee with more seniority, or promote any employee who is not qualified
to perform the job, unless the employer does so or would do so to accommodate
other classes of employees who need it. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-273.2. Arrest Record:
   (a)   Unless otherwise authorized by law, it is a civil rights violation for
any employer, employment agency or labor organization to inquire into or to use
an arrest record, as defined in this ordinance as a basis to refuse to hire, to
segregate, or to act with respect to recruitment, hiring, promotion, renewal of
employment, selection for training or apprenticeship, discharge, discipline,
tenure or terms, privileges or conditions of employment. This Section does not
prohibit a City agency, unit of local government or school district, or private
organization from requesting or utilizing sealed felony conviction information
obtained from the Department of State Police under the provisions of Section 3
of the Criminal Identification Act [20 ILCS 2630/3] or under other State or
federal laws or regulations that require criminal background checks in
evaluating the qualifications and character of an employee or a prospective
employee.
   (b)   The prohibition against the use of an arrest record, as defined in
this ordinance, shall not be construed to prohibit an employer, employment
agency, or labor organization from obtaining or using other information which
indicates that a person actually engaged in the conduct for which he or she was
arrested. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-273.3. Conviction record:
   (a)   Unless otherwise authorized by law, it is a civil rights violation for
any employer, employment agency or labor organization to use a conviction
record as a basis to refuse to hire, to segregate, or to act with respect to
recruitment, hiring, promotion, renewal of employment, selection for training
or apprenticeship, discharge, discipline, tenure or terms, privileges or
conditions of employment (whether “disqualification” or “adverse action”),
unless:
      (1)   There is a substantial relationship between one or more of the
previous criminal offenses and the employment sought or held; or
      (2)   The granting or continuation of the employment would involve an
unreasonable risk to property or to the safety or welfare of specific
individuals or the general public.
   For the purposes of this subsection (a), “substantial relationship” means a
consideration of whether the employment position offers the opportunity for the
same or a similar offense to occur and whether the circumstances leading to the
conduct for which the person was convicted will recur in the employment
position.
   (b)   Factors considered. In making a determination pursuant to subsection
(a), the employer shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   The length of time since the conviction;
      (2)   The number of convictions that appear on the conviction record;
      (3)   The nature and severity of the conviction and its relationship to
the safety and security of others;
      (4)   The facts or circumstances surrounding the conviction;
      (5)   The age of the employee at the time of the conviction; and
      (6)   Evidence of rehabilitation efforts.
   (c)   Interactive assessment required for disqualifying conviction. If,
after considering the mitigating factors in subsection (b), the employer makes
a preliminary decision that the employee’s conviction record disqualifies the
employee, the employer shall notify the employee of this preliminary decision
in writing.
      (1)   Notification. The notification shall contain all of the following:
         a.   Notice of the disqualifying conviction or convictions that are
the basis for the preliminary decision and the employer’s reasoning for the
disqualification;
         b.   A copy of the conviction history report, if any; and
         c.   An explanation of the employee’s right to respond to the notice
of the employer’s preliminary decision before that decision becomes final. The
explanation shall inform the employee that the response may include, but is not
limited to, submission of evidence challenging the accuracy of the conviction
record that is the basis for the disqualification, or evidence in mitigation,
such as rehabilitation.
      (2)   Employee response. The employee shall have at least 5 business days
to respond to the notification provided to the employee before the employer may
make a final decision.
      (3)   Final decision. The employer shall consider information submitted
by the employee before making a final decision. If an employer makes a final
decision to disqualify or take an adverse action solely or in part because of
the employee’
         a.   Notice of the disqualifying conviction or convictions that are
the basis for the final decision and the employer’s reasoning for the
disqualification;
         b.   Any existing procedure the employer has for the employee to
challenge the decision or request reconsideration; and
         c.   the right to file a charge with the Commission officers. (Ord.
57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-273.4. Exemptions:
   (a)   Nothing contained in this Act shall prohibit an employer, employment
agency, or labor organization from:
      (1)   Bona Fide Qualification. Hiring or selecting between persons for
bona fide occupational qualifications or any reason except those civil-rights
violations specifically identified in this Article.
      (2)   Veterans. Giving preferential treatment to veterans and their
relatives as required by the laws or regulations of the United States or this
State or a unit of local government, or pursuant to a private employer’s
voluntary veterans’ preference employment policy authorized by the Veterans
Preference in Private Employment Act [330 ILCS 56/1 et seq.].
      (3)   Unfavorable Discharge From Military Service.
         a.   Using unfavorable discharge from military service as a valid
employment criterion when authorized by federal law or regulation or when a
position of employment involves the exercise of fiduciary responsibilities; or
         b.   Participating in a bona fide recruiting incentive program,
sponsored by a branch of the United States Armed Forces, a reserve component of
the United States Armed Forces, or any National Guard or Naval Militia, where
participation in the program is limited by the sponsoring branch based upon the
service member’s discharge status.
      (4)   Ability Tests. Giving or acting upon the results of any
professionally developed ability test provided that such test, its
administration, or action upon the results, is not used as a subterfuge for or
does not have the effect of unlawful discrimination.
      (5)   Merit and Retirement Systems.
         a.   Applying different standards of compensation, or different terms,
conditions or privileges of employment pursuant to a merit or retirement system
provided that such system or its administration is not used as a subterfuge for
or does not have the effect of unlawful discrimination.
         b.   Effecting compulsory retirement of any employee who has attained
65 years of age and who, for the 2-year period immediately preceding
retirement, is employed in a bona fide executive or a high policymaking
position, if such employee is entitled to an immediate nonforfeitable annual
retirement benefit from a pension, profit-sharing, savings, or deferred
compensation plan, or any combination of such plans of the employer of such
employee, which equals, in the aggregate, at least $44,000. If any such
retirement benefit is in a form other than a straight life annuity (with no
ancillary benefits) or if the employees contribute to any such plan or make
rollover contributions, the retirement benefit shall be adjusted in accordance
with regulations prescribed by the Illinois Department of Human Rights, so that
the benefit is the equivalent of a straight life annuity (with no ancillary
benefits) under a plan to which employees do not contribute and under which no
rollover contributions are made.
      (6)   Training and Apprenticeship programs. Establishing an educational
requirement as a prerequisite to selection for a training or apprenticeship
program, provided such requirement does not operate to discriminate on the
basis of any prohibited classification except age.
      (7)   Citizenship Status. Making legitimate distinctions based on
citizenship status if specifically authorized or required by State or federal
law.
   (c)   (1)   For purposes of this Act, the term “disability” shall not
include any employee or applicant who is currently engaging in the illegal use
of drugs, when an employer acts on the basis of such use.
      (2)   Paragraph (1) shall not apply where an employee or applicant for
employment:
         a.   Has successfully completed a supervised drug rehabilitation
program and is no longer engaging in the illegal use of drugs, or has otherwise
been rehabilitated successfully and is no longer engaging in such use;
         b.   Is participating in a supervised rehabilitation program and is no
longer engaging in such use; or
         c.   Is erroneously regarded as engaging in such use, but is not
engaging in such use.
      It shall not be a violation of this Ordinance for an employer to adopt or
administer reasonable policies or procedures, including but not limited to drug
testing, designed to ensure that an individual described in subparagraph (a) or
(b) is no longer engaging in the illegal use of drugs.
      (3)   An employer:
         a.   May prohibit the illegal use of drugs and the use of alcohol at
the workplace by all employees;
         b.   May require that employees shall not be under the influence of
alcohol or be engaging in the illegal use of drugs at the workplace;
         c.   May require that employees behave in conformance with the
requirements established under the federal Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41
U.S.C. 701 et seq.) and the Drug Free Workplace Act [30 ILCS 580/1 et seq.];
         d.   May hold an employee who engages in the illegal use of drugs or
who is an alcoholic to the same qualification standards for employment or job
performance and behavior that such employer holds other employees, even if any
unsatisfactory performance or behavior is related to the drug use or alcoholism
of such employee; and
         e.   May, with respect to federal regulations regarding alcohol and
the illegal use of drugs, require that:
            1.   Employees comply with the standards established in such
regulations of the United States Department of Defense, if the employees of the
employer are employed in an industry subject to such regulations, including
complying with regulations (if any) that apply to employment in sensitive
positions in such an industry, in the case of employees of the employer who are
employed in such positions (as defined in the regulations of the Department of
Defense);
            2.   Employees comply with the standards established in such
regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, if the employees of the
employer are employed in an industry subject to such regulations, including
complying with regulations (if any) that apply to employment in sensitive
positions in such an industry, in the case of employees of the employer who are
employed in such positions (as defined in the regulations of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission); and
            3.   Employees comply with the standards established in such
regulations of the United States Department of Transportation, if the employees
of the employer are employed in a transportation industry subject to such
regulations, including complying with such regulations (if any) that apply to
employment in sensitive positions in such an industry, in the case of employees
of the employer who are employed in such positions (as defined in the
regulations of the United States Department of Transportation).
      (4)    For purposes of this Ordinance, a test to determine the illegal
use of drugs shall not be considered a medical examination. Nothing in this
Ordinance shall be construed to encourage, prohibit, or authorize the
conducting of drug testing for the illegal use of drugs by job applicants or
employees or making employment decisions based on such test results.
      (5)   Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to encourage,
prohibit, restrict, or authorize the otherwise lawful exercise by an employer
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Transportation
of authority to:
         a.   Test employees of such employer in, and applicants for, positions
involving safety-sensitive duties for the illegal use of drugs and for on-duty
impairment by alcohol; and
         b.   Remove such persons who test positive for illegal use of drugs
and on-duty impairment by alcohol pursuant to subparagraph (a) from safety-
sensitive duties in implementing paragraph (3). (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274. Definitions:
   The following definitions are applicable strictly in the context of this
Article:
   (a)   Real Property. “Real property” includes buildings, structures, real
estate, lands, tenements, leaseholds, interests in real estate cooperatives,
condominiums, and hereditaments, corporeal and incorporeal, or any interest
therein.
   (b)   Real Estate Transaction. “Real estate transaction” includes the sale,
exchange, rental or lease of real property. “Real estate transaction” also
includes the brokering or appraising of residential real property and the
making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial assistance:
      (1)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling; or
      (2)   Secured by residential real estate.
   (c)   Housing Accommodations. “Housing accommodation” includes any improved
or unimproved real property, or part thereof, which is used or occupied, or is
intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied, as the home or residence
of one or more individuals.
   (d)   Real Estate Broker or Salesman. “Real estate broker or salesman” means
a person, whether licensed or not, who, for or with the expectation of
receiving a consideration, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents, or leases
real property, or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate any of these
activities, or who holds himself or herself out as engaged in these.
   (e)   Familial Status. “Familial status” means one or more individuals (who
have not attained the age of 18 years) being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or person having legal custody of such individual or
individuals; or
      (2)   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody,
with the written permission of such parent or other person.
      The protections afforded by this Article against discrimination on the
basis of familial status apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the
process of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the
age of 18 years.
   (f)   Conciliation. “Conciliation” means the attempted resolution of issues
raised by a charge, or by the investigation of such charge, through informal
negotiations involving the aggrieved party, the respondent and the Department.
   (g)   Conciliation Agreement. “Conciliation agreement” means a written
agreement setting forth the resolution of the issues in conciliation.
   (h)   Covered Multifamily Dwellings. As used in the following section,
“covered multifamily dwellings” means:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of 4 or more units if such buildings have one
or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of 4 or more
units. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274.1. Civil Rights Violations; Real Estate Transactions:
   It is a civil rights violation for an owner or any other person engaging in
a real estate transaction, or for a real estate broker or salesman, because of
unlawful discrimination, familial status, or an arrest record, as defined
above, to:
   (a)   Transaction. Refuse to engage in a real estate transaction with a
person or to discriminate in making available such a transaction;
   (b)   Terms. Alter the terms, conditions or privileges of a real estate
transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith;
   (c)   Offer. Refuse to receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer to
engage in a real estate transaction from a person;
   (d)    Negotiation. Refuse to negotiate for a real estate transaction with a
person;
   (e)   Representations. Represent to a person that real property is not
available for inspection, sale, rental, or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to fail to bring a property listing to his or her attention, or
to refuse to permit him or her to inspect real property;
   (f)   Publication of Intent. Make, print, circulate, post, mail, publish or
cause to be made, printed, circulated, posted, mailed, or published any notice,
statement, advertisement or sign, or use a form of application for a real
estate transaction, or make a record or inquiry in connection with a
prospective real estate transaction, that indicates any preference, limitation,
or discrimination based on unlawful discrimination or unlawful discrimination
based on familial status or an arrest record, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (g)   Listings. Offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of real
property with knowledge that unlawful discrimination or discrimination on the
basis of familial status or an arrest record in a real estate transaction is
intended. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274.2. Disability:
   (a)   It is a civil rights violation to refuse to sell or rent or to
otherwise make unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of
a disability of that buyer or renter, a disability of a person residing or
intending to reside in that dwelling after it is sold, rented or made available
or a disability of any person associated with the buyer or renter.
   (b)   It is a civil rights violation to alter the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling because of a disability of a person
with a disability or a disability of any person residing or intending to reside
in that dwelling after it is sold, rented or made available, or a disability of
any person associated with that person.
   (c)   It is a civil rights violation:
      (1)   To refuse to permit, at the expense of the person with a
disability, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be
occupied by such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such
person full enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental,
the landlord may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a
modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before modifications, reasonable wear and tear
excepted. The landlord may not increase for persons with a disability any
customarily required security deposit. However, where it is necessary in order
to ensure with reasonable certainty that funds will be available to pay for the
restorations at the end of the tenancy, the landlord may negotiate as part of
such a restoration agreement a provision requiring that the tenant pay into an
interest-bearing escrow account, over a reasonable period, a reasonable amount
of money not to exceed the cost of the restorations. The interest in any such
account shall accrue to the benefit of the tenant. A landlord may condition
permission for a modification on the renter providing a reasonable description
of the proposed modifications as well as reasonable assurances that the work
will be done in a workmanlike manner and that any required building permits
will be obtained;
      (2)   To refuse to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multifamily dwellings for first occupancy after the effective date of this
ordinance, to fail to design and construct those dwellings in such a manner
that:
         a.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by persons with a disability;
         b.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
persons with a disability in wheelchairs; and
         c.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (d)   Compliance with the appropriate standards of the Illinois
Accessibility Code for adaptable dwelling units (71 Illinois Administrative
Code Section 400.350 (e)(1-6) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
subsection (c)(3)c.)
   (e)   Nothing in this Section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of others or would result in substantial physical damage to the property
of others. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274.3. Unlawful Activity:
   The prohibition against the use of an arrest record under Section 3-102
shall not preclude an owner or any other person engaging in a real estate
transaction, or a real estate broker or salesman, from prohibiting the tenant,
a member of the tenant’s household, or a guest of the tenant from engaging in
unlawful activity on the premises. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274.4. Blockbusting:
   It is a civil rights violation for any person to:
   (a)   Solicitation. Solicit for sale, lease, listing or purchase any
residential real estate within this City, on the grounds of loss of value due
to the present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property involved
of any person or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national
origin, ancestry, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, familial status
or disability.
   (b)   Statements. Distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of residential real estate in this City
to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or prospective
changes in the race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, sex,
sexual orientation, marital status, familial status or disability of residents
in the vicinity of the property involved.
   (c)   Creating Alarm. Intentionally create alarm, among residents of any
community, by transmitting communications in any manner, including a telephone
call whether or not conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any
owner of residential real estate in this City to sell or lease his or her
property because of any present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the
property involved of any person or persons of any particular race, color,
religion, national origin, ancestry, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital
status, familial status or disability. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274.5. Refusal To Sell Or Rent Because A Person Has A Guide, Hearing Or
Support Dog:
   It is a civil rights violation for the owner or agent of any housing
accommodation to:
   (a)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny property to any blind or hearing impaired person or person with a physical
disability because he has a guide, hearing or support dog; or
   (b)   Discriminate against any blind or hearing impaired person or person
with a physical disability in the terms, conditions, or privileges of sale or
rental property, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection
therewith, because he has a guide, hearing or support dog; or
   (c)   Require, because a blind or hearing impaired person or person with a
physical disability has a guide, hearing or support dog, an extra charge in a
lease, rental agreement, or contract of purchase or sale, other than for actual
damage done to the premises by the dog. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274.6. Restrictive Covenants:
   (a)   Agreements. Every provision in an oral agreement or a written
instrument relating to real property which purports to forbid or restrict the
conveyance, encumbrance, occupancy, or lease thereof on the basis of race,
color, religion, or national origin is void.
   (b)   Limitations.
      (1)   Every condition, restriction or prohibition, including a right of
entry or possibility of reverter, which directly or indirectly limits the use
or occupancy of real property on the basis of race, color, religion, or
national origin is void.
      (2)   This Section shall not apply to a limitation of use on the basis of
religion of real property held by a religious institution or organization or by
a religious or charitable organization operated, supervised, or controlled by a
religious institution or organization, and used for religious or charitable
purposes.
   (c)   Civil Rights Violations. It is a civil rights violation to insert in a
written instrument relating to real property a provision that is void under
this Section or to honor or attempt to honor such a provision in the chain of
title. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274.7. Interference, Coercion, Or Intimidation:
It is a civil rights violation to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere
with any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her
having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or
encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted
or protected by this Article. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-274.8. Exemptions:
Nothing contained in herein shall prohibit:
   (a)   Private Sales of Single Family Homes.
      (1)   Any sale of a single family home by its owner so long as the
following criteria are met:
         a.   The owner does not own or have a beneficial interest in more than
three single family homes at the time of the sale;
         b.   The owner or a member of his or her family was the last current
resident of the home;
         c.   The home is sold without the use in any manner of the sales or
rental facilities or services of any real estate broker or salesman, or of any
employee or agent of any real estate broker or salesman;
         d.   The home is sold without the publication, posting or mailing,
after notice, of any advertisement or written notice in violation of paragraph
(F) of Section 3-102.
      (2)   This exemption does not apply to paragraph (f) of Section
2-274.1.
   (b)   Apartments. Rental of a housing accommodation in a building which
contains housing accommodations for not more than 4 families living
independently of each other, if the owner resides in one of the housing
accommodations. This exemption does not apply to paragraph (f) of Section
2-274.1 .
   (c)   Private Rooms. Rental of a room or rooms in a private home by an owner
if he or she or a member of his or her family resides therein or, while absent
for a period of not more than twelve months, if he or she or a member of his or
her family intends to return to reside therein.
   (d)   Reasonable local, State, or Federal restrictions regarding the maximum
number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling.
   (e)   Religious Organizations. A religious organization, association, or
society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or
controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or
society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a dwelling which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, or national origin.
   (f)   Sex. Restricting the rental of rooms in a housing accommodation to
persons of one sex.
   (g)   Persons Convicted of Drug-Related Offenses. Conduct against a person
because such person has been convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction
of the illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance as defined
in Section 102 of the federal Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
   (h)   Persons engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of real
property from taking into consideration factors other than those based on
unlawful discrimination or familial status in furnishing appraisals.
   (h-1)   The owner of an owner-occupied residential building with 4 or fewer
units (including the unit in which the owner resides) from making decisions
regarding whether to rent to a person based upon that person’s sexual
orientation.
   (i)   Housing for Older Persons. No provision in this Article regarding
familial status shall apply with respect to housing for older persons.
      (1)   As used in this Section, “housing for older persons” means housing:
         a.   Provided under any State or Federal program that the Officer
determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons (as
defined in the State or Federal program); or
         b.   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         c.   Intended and operated for occupancy by persons 55 years of age or
older and:
            1.   At least 80% of the occupied units are occupied by at least
one person who is 55 years of age or older;
            2.   The housing facility or community publishes and adheres to
policies and procedures that demonstrate the intent required under this
subdivision (c); and
            3.   The housing facility or community complies with rules adopted
by the Officer for verification of occupancy, which shall:
               (i)   Provide for verification by reliable surveys and
affidavits; and
               (ii)   Include examples of the types of policies and procedures
relevant to a determination of compliance with the requirement of clause (ii).
      These surveys and affidavits shall be admissible in administrative and
judicial proceedings for the purposes of such verification.
      (2)   Housing shall not fail to meet the requirements for housing for
older persons by reason of:
         a.   Persons residing in such housing as of the effective date of this
amendatory Act of 1989 who do not meet the age requirements of subsections
(1)b. or c.; provided, that new occupants of such housing meet the age
requirements of subsections (1)b. or c. of this subsection; or
         b.   Unoccupied units; provided, that such units are reserved for
occupancy by persons who meet the age requirements of subsections (1)b. or c.
of this subsection.
      (3)   a.   A person shall not be held personally liable for monetary
damages for a violation of this Article if the person reasonably relied, in
good faith, on the application of the exemption under this subsection (i)
relating to housing for older persons.
         b.   For the purposes of this item (3), a person may show good faith
reliance on the application of the exemption only by showing that:
            1.   The person has no actual knowledge that the facility or
community is not, or will not be, eligible for the exemption; and
            2.   The facility or community has stated formally, in writing,
that the facility or community complies with the requirements for the
exemption.
   (j)   Child Sex Offender Refusal to Rent. Refusal of a child sex offender
who owns and resides at residential real estate to rent any residential unit
within the same building in which he or she resides to a person who is the
parent or guardian of a child or children under 18 years of age.
   (k)   Arrest Records. Inquiry into or the use of an arrest record if the
inquiry or use is otherwise authorized by State or federal law. (Ord. 57-2022,
12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-275. Definitions:
The following definitions are applicable strictly in the context of this
Article:
   Operator. “Operator” means any owner, lessee, proprietor, manager,
superintendent, agent, or occupant of a place of public accommodation or an
employee of any such person or persons.
   Place of Public Accommodation. “Place of public accommodation” includes, but
is not limited to:
   (1)   An inn, hotel, motel, or other place of lodging, except for an
establishment located within a building that contains not more than 5 units for
rent or hire and that is actually occupied by the proprietor of such
establishment as the residence of such proprietor;
   (2)   A restaurant, bar, or other establishment serving food or drink;
   (3)   A motion picture house, theater, concert hall, stadium, or other place
of exhibition or entertainment;
   (4)   An auditorium, convention center, lecture hall, or other place of
public gathering;
   (5)   A bakery, grocery store, clothing store, hardware store, shopping
center, or other sales or rental establishment;
   (6)   A laundromat, dry-cleaner, bank, barber shop, beauty shop, travel
service, shoe repair service, funeral parlor, gas station, office of an
accountant or lawyer, pharmacy, insurance office, professional office of a
health care provider, hospital, or other service establishment;
   (7)   Public conveyances on air, water, or land;
   (8)   A terminal, depot, or other station used for specified public
transportation;
   (9)   A museum, library, gallery, or other place of public display or
collection;
   (10)   A park, zoo, amusement park, or other place of recreation;
   (11)   A non-sectarian nursery, day care center, elementary, secondary,
undergraduate, or postgraduate school, or other place of education;
   (12)   A senior citizen center, homeless shelter, food bank, non-sectarian
adoption agency, or other social service center establishment; and
   (13)   A gymnasium, health spa, bowling alley, golf course, or other place
of exercise or recreation.
   Public Official. “Public official” means any officer or employee of the City
or any agency thereof, including City political subdivisions, municipal
corporations, park districts, forest preserve districts, educational
institutions, and schools. (Ord. 57-2022, 12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-275.1. Civil Rights Violations: Public Accommodations:
It is a civil rights violation for any person on the basis of unlawful
discrimination to:
   (a)   Enjoyment of Facilities, Goods, and Services. Deny or refuse to
another the full and equal enjoyment of the facilities, goods, and services of
any public place of accommodation;
   (b)   Written Communications. Directly or indirectly, as the operator of a
place of public accommodation, publish, circulate, display or mail any written
communication, except a private communication sent in response to a specific
inquiry, which the operator knows is to the effect that any of the facilities
of the place of public accommodation will be denied to any person or that any
person is unwelcome, objectionable or unacceptable because of unlawful
discrimination;
   (c)   Public Officials. Deny or refuse to another, as a public official, the
full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantage, facilities or
privileges of the official’s office or services or of any property under the
official’s care because of unlawful discrimination. (Ord. 57-2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-275.2. No Civil Rights Violation: Public Accommodations:
   (a)   It is not a civil rights violation for a medical, dental, or other
health care professional or a private professional service provider such as a
lawyer, accountant, or insurance agent to refer or refuse to treat or provide
services to an individual in a protected class for any non-discriminatory
reason if, in the normal course of his or her operations or business, the
professional would for the same reason refer or refuse to treat or provide
services to an individual who is not in the protected class of the individual
who seeks or requires the same or similar treatment or services.
   (b)   With respect to a place of public accommodation defined in paragraph
(11) of 775 ILCS 5/5-101, the exercise of free speech, free expression, free
exercise of religion or expression of religiously based views by any individual
or group of individuals that is protected under the First Amendment to the
United States Constitution or Section 4 of Article I, of the Illinois
Constitution, shall not be a civil rights violation. (Ord. 57-2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-275.3. Jurisdiction Limited:
In regard to places of public accommodation defined in paragraph (11) of 775
ILCS 5/5-101, the jurisdiction of the Commission officers is limited to: (1)
the failure to enroll an individual; (2) the denial of access to facilities,
goods, or services; or (3) severe or pervasive harassment of an individual when
the covered entity fails to take corrective action to stop the severe or
pervasive harassment. (Ord. 57-2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-275.4. Exemption:
Nothing in this Article shall apply to:
   (a)   Private Club. A private club, or other establishment not in fact open
to the public, except to the extent that the goods, services, facilities,
privileges, advantages, or accommodations of the establishment are made
available to the customers or patrons of another establishment that is a place
of public accommodation.
   (b)   Facilities Distinctly Private. Any facility, as to discrimination
based on sex, which is distinctly private in nature such as restrooms, shower
rooms, bath houses, health clubs and other similar facilities for which the
Illinois Department of Human Rights, in its rules and regulations, may grant
exemptions based on bona fide considerations of public policy.
   (c)   Inn, Hotel, Rooming House. Any facility, as to discrimination based on
sex, which restricts the rental of rooms to individuals of one sex. (Ord. 57-
2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-276. Violations Of Other Acts:
   A person who violates the Section 11-117-12.2 of the Illinois Municipal Code
[65 ILCS 5/11-117-12.2], Section 224.05 of the Illinois Insurance Code [215
ILCS 5/224.05], Section 8-201.5 of the Public Utilities Act [220 ILCS 5/8-
201.5], Sections 2-1401.1, 9-107.10, 9-107.11, and 15-1501.6 of the Code of
Civil Procedure [735 ILCS 5/2-1401.1, 735 ILCS 5/9-107.10, and 735 ILCS 5/15-
1501.6], Section 4.05 of the Interest Act [815 ILCS 205/4.05], the Military
Personnel Cellular Phone Contract Termination Act [815 ILCS 633/1 et seq.],
Section 405-272 of the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois [20 ILCS 405/405-
272], Section 10-63 of the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act [5 ILCS 100/
10-63], Sections 30.25 and 30.30 of the Military Code of Illinois [20 ILCS
1805/30.25 and 20 ILCS 1805/30.30], Section 16 of the Landlord and Tenant Act
[765 ILCS 705/16], Section 26.5 of the Retail Installment Sales Act [815 ILCS
405/26.5], or Section 37 of the Motor Vehicle Leasing Act [815 ILCS 636/37]
commits a civil rights violation within the meaning of this Act. (Ord. 57-
2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-277. Powers And Duties:
   In addition to other powers and duties prescribed in this Ordinance, the
Commission officers shall have the following powers:
   (a)   Rules and Regulations. To adopt, promulgate, amend, and rescind rules
and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance and
other applicable law.
   (b)   Charges. To issue, receive, investigate, conciliate, settle, and
dismiss charges filed in conformity with this Ordinance.
   (c)   Compulsory Process. To request subpoenas as it deems necessary for its
investigations.
   (d)   Complaints. To file complaints with the Commission in conformity with
this Ordinance.
   (e)   Judicial Enforcement. To seek temporary relief and to enforce orders
of the Commission in conformity with this Ordinance.
   (f)   Equal Employment Opportunities. To take such action as may be
authorized to provide for equal employment opportunities and affirmative
action.
   (g)   Recruitment; Research; Public Communication; Advisory Councils. To
engage in such recruitment, research and public communication and create such
advisory councils as may be authorized to effectuate the purposes of this
Ordinance.
   (h)   Coordination with other Agencies. To coordinate its activities with
federal, City, and local agencies in conformity with this Ordinance.
   (i)   Public Grants; Private Gifts. To accept public grants and private
gifts as may be authorized.
   (j)   Education and Training. To implement a formal and unbiased program of
education and training for all commissioners assigned to investigate and
conciliate charges. The training program shall include the following:
      (1)   Substantive and procedural aspects of the investigation and
conciliation positions;
      (2)   Current issues in human rights law and practice;
      (3)   Lectures by specialists in substantive areas related to human
rights matters;
      (4)   Orientation to each operational unit of the Commission officers and
Commission;
      (5)   Observation of experienced Commission officers and attorneys
conducting conciliation conferences, combined with the opportunity to discuss
evidence presented and rulings made;
      (6)   The use of hypothetical cases requiring the Commission officers to
issue case assessments as a means to evaluating knowledge and writing ability;
      (7)   Writing skills;
      (8)   Computer skills, including but not limited to word processing and
document management.
   A formal, unbiased, and ongoing professional development program including,
but not limited to, the above-noted areas shall be implemented to keep
Commission officers informed of recent developments and issues and to assist
them in maintaining and enhancing their professional competence. (Ord. 57-
2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-277.1. Recruitment; Research; Public Communication:
   For the purpose of promoting equal employment and housing opportunities and
eliminating unlawful discrimination, and sexual harassment in employment, the
Commission shall have authority to:
   (a)   Recruitment. Cooperate with public and private organizations, as well
as the Department of Central Management Services, in encouraging individuals in
underrepresented classifications to seek employment in City government.
   (b)   Publications; Research. Issue publications, conduct research, and make
surveys as it deems necessary.
   (c)   Public Hearings. Hold public hearings to obtain information from the
general public on the effectiveness of the City’s equal employment opportunity
program and the protection against unlawful discrimination, sexual harassment
in employment afforded by this Ordinance and to accept public recommendations
concerning changes in the program and the Ordinance for inclusion in its annual
report.
   (d)   Promotion of Communication and Goodwill. Establish a program to
cooperate with civic, religious and educational organizations in order to
improve communication and understanding, foster equal opportunities in
employment and housing, and promote and encourage communication, goodwill and
interfaith and interracial harmony. (Ord. 57-2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-277.2. City Attorney:
   When authorized by this Ordinance to take part in a judicial proceeding in
any court in this City, the Commission officers shall proceed only through the
City Attorney. (Ord. 57-2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-277.3. Public Grants; Private Gifts:
   The Commission officers are authorized to accept public grants and private
gifts and bequests so long as the conditions of the grant, gift or bequest are
not inconsistent with the purposes of this Ordinance. (Ord. 57-2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-277.4. Complaint Procedures, Investigation And Mediation:
   (a)   Filing of complaints.
      (1)   Any individual who believes that he or she has been aggrieved by a
violation of the provisions of this article may file a complaint with the
Commission officers. The commission officers shall keep records of all
complaints made to the human relations office, whether or not a formal
complaint has been filed.
      (2)   The commission officers may, in lieu of an individual complainant
filing a written statement and at the request of a complainant, file and
process a written statement of alleged discrimination.
      (3)   The complainant shall make a written statement that an unlawful
practice has been committed, setting forth the facts upon which the complaint
is based, and setting forth facts sufficient to enable the commission officers
to identify the respondent. Such written statement shall be referred to herein
as a “complaint.”
      (4)   All complaints shall be filed within ninety (90) days of the
occurrence of the alleged violation, or ninety (90) days after the discovery
thereof, but in no event shall a complaint be filed more than one (1) year
after the occurrence of the violation.
      (5)   Complaints filed may be voluntarily withdrawn at the request of the
complainant at any time prior to the completion of the public hearing. The
circumstances accompanying such withdrawal may be fully investigated by the
commission officers.
      (6)   The commission officers may investigate individual instances and
patterns of conduct that are in violation of the provisions of this article and
may file complaints in connection therewith.
   (b)   Notice and response to complaint, preliminary investigation, initial
determination.
      (1)   The commission officers shall promptly investigate allegations of
discrimination set forth in any complaint and shall furnish the respondent with
a copy of said complaint by certified mail or personal service within seven (7)
days of filing of the complaint.
         a.   The respondent shall file a verified response to the allegations
set forth in the complaint within twenty-eight (28) days of the date respondent
receives the complaint. All allegations contained in the complaint not timely
denied by the respondent shall be deemed admitted, unless the respondent states
that it is without sufficient information to form a belief with respect to such
allegation. The commission officers shall issue a notice of default directed to
any respondent who fails to file a verified response to a complaint within
twenty-eight (28) days of the date on which the complaint was received by the
respondent, unless the respondent can demonstrate good cause as to why such
notice should not be issued.
         b.   The respondent shall, at the request of the commission officers,
permit the commission officers to inspect and copy such records as may be
relevant to the investigation. Should the respondent refuse to permit such
inspection and copying, the commission may issue a subpoena for such records.
      (2)   An initial determination in writing shall be made by the
investigator, stating whether or not there is probable cause to believe that
this article has been violated, and on what facts such determination is based.
Notice of the initial determination shall be furnished to the respondent and
complainant within forty-two (42) days of the date the respondent files its
verified response to the complaint.
      (3)   If the commission officers find, with respect to any respondent,
that the commission lacks jurisdiction or that probable cause does not exist,
the commission officers shall issue and cause to be served on the respondent
and the complainant an order dismissing the allegations of the complaint, along
with a copy of this section explaining the complainant’s right to appeal.
      (4)   An order dismissing the allegations of the complaint for lack of
jurisdiction or lack of probable cause may be appealed to the commission’s
independent hearing officer by the complainant within twenty-eight (28) days of
the date on which the order was served, by mailing to the chair of the
commission a written request for an informal public hearing.
         a.   The commission shall forward the appeal and all related documents
to the independent hearing officer, who shall, in their discretion, decide the
appeal with or without a hearing.
         b.   If the independent hearing officer requires a hearing, it shall
be held within twenty-eight (28) days of the date a written request is received
by the chair of the commission.
         c.   Notice of the hearing date shall be served upon the complainant
and the respondent no less than seven (7) days in advance of the hearing date.
         d.   The independent hearing officer shall preside at the hearing at
which time the commission officers will state the reasons for their initial
determination of no probable cause and the complainant will state his/her
objections to the determination. The respondent shall have the opportunity, but
shall be under no obligation, to comment in support of the commission officers’
determination.
      (5)   After hearing from all parties, the independent hearing officer
shall render a written decision setting forth their reasoning in support of
either:
         a.   Issuing an order in concurrence with the investigator’s finding
of no probable cause; or
         b.   Issuing an order determining probable cause, stating on what
basis such determination is made.
      The written decision shall be served upon the parties within seven (7)
days. If the independent hearing officer finds probable cause, the commission
officers shall attempt conciliation in accordance with the procedures set forth
herein.
   (c)   Informal conciliation; follow-up proceedings; confidentiality.
      (1)   In the event of a determination of probable cause, an attempt shall
be made by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion to
eliminate the alleged discriminatory practice and to compensate the complainant
for damages suffered as a result of the practice.
      (2)   If the respondent and complainant agree to a conciliation agreement
in writing, such written agreement shall be reported to the commission and the
commission shall issue an order stating the terms of the agreement and furnish
a copy of the order to the complainant and respondent.
      (3)   At any time within one (1) year from the date of a conciliation
agreement, the commission, or the commission officers, shall investigate
whether the respondent is in compliance with the terms of the agreement. Upon
finding that the respondent is not in compliance, the commission officers shall
certify the matter to the city attorney for enforcement proceedings.
      (4)   If the respondent and complainant do not agree to a written
conciliation agreement within forty-two (42) days of the determination of
probable cause, either party shall have the right to a public hearing of the
complaint before the commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in
this Ordinance. Said public hearing shall commence within one hundred five
(105) days of the date that a written request for a hearing is received by the
chair of the commission.
      (5)   Except for the terms of the conciliation agreement and any
information presented at public meetings or hearings, neither the commission
officers, the commission, nor any agent thereof shall make public, without the
written consent of the involved parties, information concerning the complaint.
      (6)   Nothing in this article shall be so construed as to contravene, or
attempt to contravene, the provisions or intent of the Illinois Open Meeting
Law.
   (d)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Notice of hearing. After finding probable cause, failure of
conciliation efforts, and after consulting and coordinating with the office of
the city attorney, the commission officers shall cause to be issued and served
in the name of the commission, a written notice of the time, date and place of
hearing, together with a copy of the complaint, as the same may have been
amended, requiring the respondent to answer the charges of such complaint at a
public hearing; such hearing to be scheduled not less than thirty (30) days nor
more than ninety (90) days after such service. Notice shall be served by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
      (2)   Conduct of hearing.
         a.   After a complaint has been noticed for hearing, the chair of the
commission shall appoint an independent hearing officer to conduct a hearing
and make a determination concerning the complaint according to rules as adopted
by the commission. The city shall be responsible for paying the costs of such
hearing officer provided that the city attorney has approved the form of the
retention agreement form.
         b.   The office of the city attorney shall present the city’s case
before the independent hearing officer. Efforts at conciliation and
reconciliation shall not be received into evidence.
         c.   If the respondent fails to appear at the hearing after having
been served with notice, the commission shall proceed with the hearing on the
basis of the evidence in support of the complaint.
         d.   The respondent may appear at the hearing with or without
representation, may examine and cross-examine the witnesses and the
complainant, and may offer testimony and other evidence.
         e.   At the conclusion of any hearing, the independent hearing
officershall render a decision as to whether or not the respondent has engaged
in an unlawful practice or has otherwise violated the provisions of this
article. The independent hearing officer shall issue a written decision setting
forth the findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting that decision
within seven days of the hearing’s conclusion. If it is determined that a
respondent has not engaged in an unlawful practice, the independent hearing
officer shall issue, and cause to be served on the respondent and the
complainant, a decision and order dismissing the case. If it is determined that
a respondent has engaged in an unlawful practice, the independent hearing
officer shall issue, and cause to be served on such respondent, a decision and
order, accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions of law, detailing
remedies narrowly tailored to carry out the purposes of this ordinance. (Ord.
57-2022,12-12-2022)
Sec. 2-278. Administration And Enforcement:
   (a)   Fines and remedies.
      Any person found in violation of any provision of this article by the
independent hearing officer, or in subsequent judicial proceedings in a court
of law, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation.
      Additional remedies may include ordering the violator to engage in good-
faith efforts, assisted by commission members, to reach agreement with the
complainant regarding:
      (1)   a.   Actual Damages. Pay actual damages, as reasonably determined
by the Commission, for injury or loss suffered by the complainant.
         b.   Hiring; Reinstatement; Promotion; Backpay; Fringe Benefits. Hire,
reinstate or upgrade the complainant with or without back pay or provide such
fringe benefits as the complainant may have been denied.
         c.   Restoration of Membership; Admission to Programs. Admit or
restore the complainant to labor organization membership, to a guidance
program, apprenticeship training program, on the job training program, or other
occupational training or retraining program.
         d.   Public Accommodations. Admit the complainant to a public
accommodation.
         e.   Services. Extend to the complainant the full and equal enjoyment
of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations
of the respondent.
         f.   Attorneys Fees; Costs. Pay to the complainant all or a portion of
the costs of maintaining the action, including reasonable attorney fees and
expert witness fees incurred in maintaining this action before the Officer, the
Commission and in any judicial review and judicial enforcement proceedings.
         g.   Compliance Report. Report as to the manner of compliance.
         h.   Posting of Notices. Post notices in a conspicuous place which the
Commission or any other appropriate government entity may publish or cause to
be published setting forth requirements for compliance with this Ordinance or
other relevant information which the Commission determines necessary to explain
this Ordinance.
         i.   Make Complainant Whole. Take such action as may be necessary to
make the individual complainant whole, including, but not limited to, awards of
interest on the complainant’s actual damages and backpay from the date of the
civil rights violation.
      There shall be no distinction made under this Section between complaints
filed by the commission officers and those filed by the complainant.
   (b)   Judicial review. Any person suffering a legal wrong, or adversely
affected or aggrieved by an order or decision of the commission in a matter,
pursuant to the provisions of this article, is entitled to a judicial review
thereof, upon timely filing a written petition for such a review with the
circuit court of the Fourteenth Judicial Circuit sitting in Rock Island County.
   (c)   Enforcement powers of commission; institution of civil proceedings.
      (1)   The independent hearing officer, shall issue subpoenas at the
instance of the commission officers of City Attorney whenever necessary to
compel the attendance of a witness or to require the production for examination
of any books, payrolls, records, correspondence, documents, papers or other
evidence in any investigation or hearing of a discrimination complaint.
      (2)   The City Attorney shall institute, in the name of the City of Rock
Island, civil proceedings, including the seeking of such restraining orders and
temporary or permanent injunctions, as are necessary to obtain complete
compliance with the commission’s orders.
   (d)   Compliance with article provisions.
      (1)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person to refuse to hire,
to discharge, to evict from housing or commercial space, to refuse to negotiate
for, sell, exchange or lease any real property or to include terms or
conditions for such property, to harass, intimidate or in any other way
retaliate or discriminate against, or interfere with any individual because he/
she has made a complaint, testified or assisted in any proceeding under this
article, whether on his/her own behalf or for another individual, or because he
or she has told, objected to, or commented upon any policy, rule, action, or
barrier to that which he or she in good faith believes violates this article.
      (2)   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person to aid, abet,
compel or coerce another person to commit an act which is unlawful under the
provisions of this article, or to attempt to do so.
   (e)   Records and reports. When a complaint has been filed against a person
pursuant to this article, the notice of the complaint shall advise the
respondent of its duty to preserve all records which may be relevant to the
charge or action until a final disposition of the charge. Such records shall
include, but not be limited to, application forms submitted by applicants,
sales and rental records, credit and reference reports, personnel records, and
any other records pertaining to the status of an individual’s enjoyment of the
rights and privileges protected or granted under this article. (Ord. 57-
2022,12-12-2022)
Secs. 2-279 – 2-285. Reserved:
DIVISION 6. BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
(Rep. By Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
DIVISION 6A. PLUMBING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS 46
(Rep. By Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
 
Notes
46 State law reference--Plumbing code, § 4-3.
DIVISION 6B. MECHANICAL CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
(Rep. By Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
DIVISION 6C. ELECTRICAL CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
(Rep. By Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
DIVISION 6D. COMMUNITY/YOUTH PARTNERSHIP COMMISSION
(Rep. By Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
DIVISION 6E. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
(Rep. By Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
Secs. 2-286 – 2-287. Reserved:
DIVISION 7. SUNSET MARINA BOATERS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. 034-2019, 7-8-2019)
Secs. 2-288 – 2-294. Reserved:
DIVISION 8. LABOR DAY PARADE ADVISORY BOARD 48
 
Notes
48 See §
   9-111 et seq., of this Code.
Sec. 2-295. Established; Purpose:
A Labor Day Parade Advisory Board is hereby established in the City. The
purpose of the board shall be the planning and coordinating of an annual Labor
Day parade to be held in September. (Ord. 89-2, 1-23-1989)
Sec. 2-296. Duties:
Duties of the Labor Day Parade Advisory Board shall be:
      (1)   To identify, and encourage groups, organizations, and individuals
to participate in a Labor Day parade which represents the rich labor history in
the City of Rock Island.
      (2)   Foster civic pride in the City's cultural, social, business,
educational and political accomplishments.
      (3)   Foster and encourage a family-oriented event to promote the general
welfare of the community. (Ord. 89-2, 1-23-1989)
Sec. 2-297. Membership; Appointment:
The Labor Day Parade Advisory Board shall consist of at least eight (8) board
members to be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. All
board members, including the Chairperson and the Treasurer of the board, shall
be citizens of the City except for one board member who may reside outside the
City. The present volunteers who have been involved in the planning of the
Labor Day parade shall be given first consideration for appointment to the
advisory board. (Ord. 89-2, 1-23-1989)
Sec. 2-298. Term:
The terms of the Labor Day Parade Advisory Board members shall be four (4)
years except for the first appointments, wherein half of the board members will
have a two (2) year term and the other board members a four (4) year term.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a four (4) year term. (Ord. 89-2, 1-
23-1989)
Sec. 2-299. Municipal Parade Fee Waived:
The Municipal parade fee is expressly waived for the Labor Day parade organized
by the Labor Day Parade Advisory Board. (Ord. 89-2, 1-23-1989)
Sec. 2-300. Participants To Be Held Harmless From Claims:
The City will hold harmless any participants in the annual Labor Day Parade
sponsored by the City from any claims that might arise because of those
individuals' participation in said parade. (Ord. 89-2, 1-23-1989)
DIVISION 8A. NEIGHBORHOOD PARTNERS BOARD
Sec. 2-300A. Board Created:
   (a)   Created: There is hereby created the Neighborhood Partners of Rock
Island, referred to in this division as "Neighborhood Partners", which shall
consist of full and associate members. Only full members shall be voting
members of the board. One-third (1/3) of the full membership, which is
determined at the annual membership meeting, will consist of City appointments.
The membership of the board shall be broadly representative of neighborhood
interests in the City.
   (b)   Appointments: The one-third (1/3) City representatives on the board
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council.
Replacement appointments to the board shall be made as vacancies occur. The
number of City appointments will be reevaluated at the annual membership
meeting in February of each year so that the same ratio of appointments will
continue from year to year. The revised number of City appointments will be
made by the Mayor and City Council no later than April 30 following the annual
membership meeting. The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall
appoint the member organizations. Each member organization shall appoint its
own representative(s) to the board.
   (c)   Terms: Members shall be appointed for a period of three (3) years.
Appointees may serve only two (2) consecutive terms, but may be appointed again
after a three (3) year waiting period. All initial terms will officially begin
with the first membership meeting in February 1997.
   (d)   Meetings: The neighborhood partners shall meet at least three (3)
times each year, and at such further times as meetings are called by the board
president, board secretary or at least one-third (1/3) of the members of the
board. All neighborhood partners' meetings shall be held at such times and in
such locations as shall be convenient for the attendance of the membership.
(Ord. 96-75, 10-7-1996)
Sec. 2-300B. Purpose And Intent:
The neighborhood partners shall serve in an advisory capacity to the city
council and shall counsel on the following purposes:
      (1)   To build stronger working partnerships among neighborhoods, city
government, nonprofit agencies, schools, churches and businesses;
      (2)   To improve quality of life and pride in Rock Island neighborhoods
through education, resident self-sufficiency and enhanced, user friendly
municipal services; and
      (3)   To provide input on a coordinated municipal service delivery
process that responds to citizen needs, influences resource decisions, and
develops and implements action strategies at the neighborhood level by advising
a city interdepartmental team to address these issues and bringing in other
expert organizations, agencies and individuals on an as-needed basis. (Ord. 96-
75, 10-7-1996)
DIVISION 9. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY TEAM
Sec. 2-300.1. Establishment:
There is hereby established a sustainable development advisory team
(hereinafter SDAT) for the city of Rock Island, Illinois, whose primary purpose
shall be to offer advice, input and guidance on the application of sustainable
development principles for projects and activities for the city of Rock Island,
Illinois. (Ord. 003-2007, § 1, 1-8-2007)
Sec. 2-300.2. Duties:
SDAT will serve in an advisory capacity as a resource for suggested methods and
processes for the incorporation of sustainable design concepts, methods and
technologies into public and private operations and/or into the construction or
remodeling of buildings or properties within the city of Rock Island, Illinois.
(Ord. 003-2007, § 2, 1-8-2007)
Sec. 2-300.3. Objectives:
The primary objectives of the SDAT will be as follows:
      (1)   To provide the city of Rock Island, Illinois, with the unique
development tool to assist businesses desiring to expand or locate in the city
of Rock Island, Illinois;
      (2)   To reinforce concepts, principles and benefits of sustainable
design and development;
      (3)   To serve as a resource for input and advice on the sustainable
design and construction of facilities as they pertain to the built environment;
      (4)   To provide suggestions and guidance on the application of
sustainable principles for city projects. (Ord. 003-2007, § 3, 1-8-2007)
Sec. 2-300.4. Membership, Appointment And Term:
   (a)   The SDAT shall consist of eight (8) members appointed by the mayor
with the consent of the city council. Appointees shall represent the following
professions: two (2) members shall be attorneys; two (2) members shall be
architects; two (2) members shall be engineers, and two (2) members shall be
urban planners.
   (b)   The term of the SDAT membership shall be four (4) years. (Ord. 003-
2007, §§ 4, 5, 1-8-2007)
Sec. 2-300.5. Meetings:
The community and economic development director or his designee shall call
meetings of the SDAT at such time when a public or private party wishing to
utilize the service of the SDAT requests a review of a project or process. The
advice, guidance and input provided by the SDAT shall be given at no cost to
the party requesting the service, shall be advisory in nature, and shall not be
binding on the requesting party. (Ord. 003-2007, § 6, 1-8-2007)
DIVISION 10. POLICE COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION
Sec. 2-300.10. Generally:
   (a)   Created: There is hereby created the Rock Island Police Community
Relations Commission, referred to in this division as the "Commission," which
shall consist of seven (7) members who are residents of the city. Community
leaders will have the opportunity to recommend members to the Mayor, who shall
make appointments to the Commission and submit them to the City Council for
approval. The membership of the commission shall be broadly representative of
the community, including representative of diverse racial, cultural, sexual
orientation, and gender groups, and shall include: (1) one current or former
member of law
enforcement, (2) one returning resident or convicted felon, (3) and five
members at large. The Commission shall endeavor to recruit members reflective
of the demographics of the City. Appropriate Commission members will
demonstrate integrity, open-mindedness, problem-solving abilities, and a
commitment to the main purposes of the Commission.
   (b)   Purpose: The primary purposes of the Commission are to: (1) build a
trusting relationship between law enforcement and communities that have
historically lacked trust with law enforcement, (2) promote policies and
procedures that support just and equitable treatment for all residents
regardless of race, national origin, ancestry, sex, gender, sexual orientation,
religion, marital status, disability status, and/or unfavorable discharge from
military service, and (3) safeguard the rights of all residents as defined by
the Constitution of the United States and state and local laws.
   (c)   Objectives: The objectives of the Commission shall be:
   (1)   To receive, review, explore, and gather data through statutory
processes on complaints filed by residents against the Rock Island Police
Department. The Commission does not review or otherwise engage with current,
pending complaints. Once the Commission's review is complete, the data and
recommendations will be presented to the Rock Island Mayor, City Council, City
Manager, Police Chief, and Rock Island residents. A mechanism to receive
complaints will be established by the Commission.
   (2)   To review the data gathered through statutory processes in all Rock
Island Police cases where officer(s) is/are subjected to review from the Rock
Island County Integrity Task Force. The Commission's primary responsibility
will be to review the incidents and provide feedback on the officers' and
residents' actions and provide suggested input on future interactions to
prevent future negative outcomes. Once the Commission's review is complete, the
Commission will present their completed review to the Rock Island County
State's Attorney's Office, Rock Island Mayor, City Council, Rock Island Police
Chief and Rock Island residents. The Commission will not include case sensitive
information to the public that is not already a matter of public record.
   (3)   To recommend and implement programs with the Chief of Police that
address the diversity of the community and police department.
   (4)   To develop procedures to anticipate, prepare for and help ease
community discomfort that may arise from police and community tensions.
   (5)   To work for greater resident participation in the planning and
execution of public policy in all phases of policing within Rock Island.
   (6)   To host quarterly community meet-and-greets with Rock Island law
enforcement and the community as a whole, preferably at different community
venues/places.
   (7)   To periodically host a community-wide meet-and-greet for all newly
hired Rock Island police officers.
   (8)   To review data gathered through statutory processes regarding hiring
and promotion patterns and decisions and provide recommendations on strategies
to attract, recruit, inspire, and prepare the next generation of police
officers in Rock Island with a focus on retaining existing resident talent.
   (d)   Appointments: The members of the Commission shall self-nominate or be
nominated by
community leaders before being appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
city council.
   (e)   Term: Members shall be appointed to three (3) year terms
   (f)   Meetings: The Commission shall meet monthly at city hall or other
venues as decided by the chairperson and with increased frequency as decided by
the chairperson or majority of the members. A majority of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum which shall be required before any business may be
conducted. Commission members shall elect a chair and vice chair who shall
serve for a term of one year.
   (g)   The chair of the Commission, in coordination with the Chief of Police,
shall develop written standards for orientation, training, and continuing
education for the commission members. All commission members must complete the
initial training before participating in any data review. (Ord. 046-2021, 9-14-
2021; amd. Ord. 038-2023, 8-14-2023; Ord. 03-2024, 1-22-2024)
Sec. 2-300.11. Duties and Powers:
   (a)   Generally: The commission shall advise and consult with the Mayor,
city manager and city council on all matters involving police community
relations.
   (b)   Report: The Commission shall render an annual report to the Mayor,
city council and publicly to Rock Island residents.
   (c)   Community Groups: The commission shall invite and enlist the
cooperation of racial, religious, and ethnic groups, community organizations,
fraternal and benevolent societies, veterans' organizations, professional and
technical organizations, and other groups in the city in carrying out its work.
The Commission may aid in the formation of local community groups in such
neighborhoods as it deems necessary or desirable to carry out specific programs
designed to lessen tensions or improve understanding in the community.
   (d)   City Departments: The Commission shall request and receive such
cooperation, assistance, and data from city departments through the city
manager as is reasonably necessary to carry out its work. (Ord. 046-2021, 9-14-
2021; amd. Ord. 038-2023, 8-14-2023; Ord. 03-2024, 1-22-2024)
ARTICLE VII. ELECTIONS 49
 
Notes
49 S.H.A. 10 ILCS 5/1-1-55/8; 65 ILCS 5/5-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-301. Permanent Registration:
10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-1 through 5/4-31 is hereby adopted and made
applicable to all primaries and elections held within the city. (1963 Code, Ch.
II, Art. II)
Sec. 2-302. Wards:
The boundaries of the various wards of the city shall be as follows:
   (1)   First Ward: That part of the city the boundaries of which are as
follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of 17th Street and the shore of
the Mississippi River; thence meandering westerly and southerly along the
shoreline of the Mississippi River to the centerline of 18th Avenue; thence
easterly along the centerline of 18th Avenue to its intersection with the
centerline of 20th Street; thence north on the centerline of 20th Street to its
intersection with 12th Avenue; thence west along the centerline of 12th Avenue
to its intersection with the centerline of 17th Street; thence northerly along
the centerline of 17th Street to the place of beginning.
   (2)   Second Ward: That part of the city that lies south of a line described
as follows:
The centerline of 18th Avenue extending east from the shore of the Mississippi
River to its intersection with the centerline of 9th Street; thence southerly
along the centerline of 9th Street to its intersection with the centerline of
35th Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of 35th Avenue to its
intersection with the centerline of 12th Street; thence southerly along 12th
Street to its intersection with the centerline of 11th Street; thence
southeasterly along the centerline of 11th Street to its intersection with the
shore of the Rock River; all territory west and south of the above-described
boundary to the shore of the Mississippi River and north of the Rock River;
also, that part of the city which lies south of the Rock River.
   (3)   Third Ward: That part of the city the boundaries of which are as
follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of 18th Avenue and the
centerline of 9th Street; thence easterly on the centerline of 18th Avenue to
its intersection with the centerline of 24th Street; thence southeasterly on
the centerline of 24th Street to the shore of the Rock River; thence meandering
westerly along the shoreline of the Rock River to its intersection with the
centerline of 11th Street; thence northwesterly along the centerline of 11th
Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of 12th Street extended
southerly; thence northerly along the centerline of 12th Street to its point of
intersection with the centerline of 35th Avenue; thence westerly along the
centerline of 35th Avenue to its point of intersection with the centerline of
9th Street; thence northerly along the centerline of 9th Street to its
intersection with the centerline of 18th Avenue to the point of beginning.
   (4)   Fourth Ward: That part of the city the boundaries of which are
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of 18th Avenue and the
centerline of 24th Street; thence easterly along the centerline of 18th Avenue
to the point of intersection with the centerline of 30th Street; thence
southerly along the centerline of 30th Street to the point of intersection with
the centerline of 20th Avenue; thence easterly along the intersection of 20th
Avenue to the point of intersection with the centerline of 38th Street; thence
southerly along the centerline of 38th Street to the point of intersection with
the centerline 31st Avenue; thence westerly along the centerline of 31st Avenue
to the point of intersection with the centerline of 30th Street; thence
southerly along the centerline of 30th Street to the shore of the Rock River;
thence westerly along the shore of the Rock River to the point of intersection
with the centerline of 24th Street extended southerly; thence northerly along
the centerline of 24th Street to the point of intersection with the centerline
of 18th Avenue to the point of beginning.
   (5)   Fifth Ward: That part of the city the boundaries of which are
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of a point on the shore of the Mississippi River
and the centerline of 30th Street extended northerly; thence southerly along
the centerline of 30th Street to the point of intersection with the centerline
of 18th Avenue; thence westerly along the centerline of 18th Avenue to the
point of intersection with the centerline of 20th Street; thence northerly
along the centerline of 20th Street to the point of intersection with the
centerline of 12th Avenue; thence westerly along the centerline of 12th Avenue
to the point of intersection with the centerline of 17th Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of 17th Street to the point of intersection with
that centerline and the shore of the Mississippi River; thence easterly along
the shore of the Mississippi River to the point of intersection with the
centerline of 30th Street extended northerly to the point of beginning.
   (6)   Sixth Ward: That part of the city the boundaries of which are
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of a point on the shore of the Mississippi River
and the centerline of 30th Street extended northerly; thence southerly along
the centerline of 30th Street to the point of intersection with the centerline
of 20th Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of 20th Avenue to the
point of intersection with the centerline of 38th Street; thence northerly
along the centerline of 38th Street to the point of intersection with the
centerline of 18th Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of 18th Avenue
to the point of intersection with the centerline of 39th Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of 39th Street to the point of intersection with
the centerline of 14th Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of 14th
Avenue to the eastern limits of the city; thence northerly along the eastern
limits of the city to the intersection of the eastern limits and the shore of
the Mississippi River; thence westerly along the shore of the Mississippi River
to the point of intersection with the centerline of 30th Street extended
northerly to the point of beginning.
   (7)   Seventh Ward: That part of the city the boundaries of which are
described as follows:
Beginning at a point which is the centerline of 14th Avenue and the eastern
limits of the city; thence meandering southerly along the eastern limits of the
city to the intersection of the shore of the Rock River; thence meandering
westerly along the shore of the Rock River to the point of intersection with
the centerline of 30th Street extended southerly; thence northerly along the
centerline of 30th Street to the point of intersection with the centerline of
31st Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of 31st Avenue to the point
of intersection with the centerline of 38th Street; thence northerly along the
centerline of 38th Street to the point of intersection with the centerline of
18th Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of 18th Avenue to the point
of intersection with the centerline of 39th Street; thence northerly along the
centerline of 39th Street to the point of intersection with the centerline of
14th Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of 14th Avenue to the eastern
limits of the city to the point of beginning.
(Code 1963, Ch. II, Art. II, § 1; Ord., § 1, 9-3-1964; Ord., § 1, 12-3-1964;
Ord., § 1, 7-12-1965; Ord., § 1, 12-12-1966; Ord., § 1, 12-10-1968; Ord., § 1,
9-25-1978; Ord., § 1, 11-20-1978; Ord., § 1, 9-15-1980; Ord. 83-56, § 1, 2-6-
1984; Ord. 84-37, § 1, 8-27-1984; Ord. 92-114, §§ 1, 2, 8-24-1992; Ord. 92-145,
§ 1, 12-14-1992)
Sec. 2-303. To Be Nonpartisan:
The election of all city officials shall be on a nonpartisan basis, and the
ballots used in those elections shall designate no party, platform political
principle, appellation, or mark whatever, nor shall any circle be printed at
the head of the primary ballots. (Ord. 84-8, § 1, 4-23-1984)
Sec. 2-304. When Primary Election Not Necessary:
No primary shall be held for any position or office for which no more than four
(4) candidates have filed. (Ord. 84-8, § 2, 4-23-1984; Ord. 065-2009, § 1, 10-
12-2009)
Chapter 3
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR 50
 
Notes
   Cross references--Buildings and building regulations,
   ch. 4; emergencies, ch. 5; health,
   ch. 7; licenses and business regulations,
   ch. 8; motor vehicles and traffic,
   ch. 9; recreational and cultural facilities, ch. 14; taxation, ch. 15; zoning,
   app. A; possession of alcoholic liquors on public right-of-way, § 10-51.
   State law reference--Local liquor regulations, 235 ILCS 5/4-1.
   Annotation--The possibility that the city would not issue a liquor license did
50 not authorize a city officer to refuse to accept the license fee. People ex
   rel. Baumann v. Gest, 148 Ill. App. 560 (1909).
   The revocation of a liquor license will be upheld unless the findings and
   conclusions on which it was based are against the manifest weight of the
   evidence. Lambrech v. Illinois Liquor Control Commissions, 5 Ill. App. 2d 481,
   126 N.E. 2d 38 (1955).
   A person's liquor license can be revoked for a violation of an ordinance only
   if there is evidence to support a finding that a violation took place and the
   licensee had some control over the prohibited conduct. Childers v. Illinois
   Liquor Control Commission, 67 Ill. App. 2d 07, 213 N.E. 2d 595 (1966).
Sec. 3-1. Definitions.
The following words and terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them:
   Alcohol: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   Alcoholic Liquor: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed by a human being and containing more than one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume.
   Applicant: An individual applying for a liquor license within the City of
Rock Island, IL.
   Bar: Any facility for serving or dispensing alcoholic liquor located on
premises which have a valid liquor license.
   Bartender: Any male or female over the age of twenty-one (21) employed in
the mixing, pouring, or drawing of alcoholic liquor.
   Beer: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of and infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   Caterer Retailer: A person, corporation or business entity who serves or
sells alcohol at a "catering location" as defined herein, as an
incidental part of its food preparation and service business. Prepared meals
and the sale or service of alcoholic liquor must be for a price agreed upon
under contract and may include a cash bar.
   Catering Location: A location that may or may not be open to the general
public where, pursuant to an agreement with an event sponsor or host, the
catering retailer licensee is providing prepared food and/or liquor at either a
private or public function. The caterer retailer licensee is limited to serving
or selling alcohol only for consumption at the catering location.
   Convenience Store: A retail establishment which offers for sale, a variety
of food and nonfood items including pop, cigarettes, snacks and toiletries,
etc., in a limited physical space.
   Deliver or Delivery: The actual constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of alcoholic liquor.
   Discount Store: A retail establishment which concentrates in mass
merchandising for the purpose of offering goods for sale at reduced prices.
   Distributor: Any person, corporation or business entity, who is engaged in
the city in purchasing, storing, possessing, or warehousing any alcoholic
liquors for resale.
   Drugstore: A retail establishment which offers the service of a licensed
pharmacist to fill prescriptions of licensed physicians, surgeons and dentists,
as well as the sale of over the counter medication and everyday home and office
supplies such as toiletries, cosmetics and stationery.
   Golf Course: A green available to the general public which is run by the
Rock Island Park board and contains at least nine (9) holes. This terrain shall
be devoted to the game of golf only. Miniature golf shall not be included in
this description.
   Grocery Store: A retail establishment which offers for sale all types of
foodstuffs both perishable and nonperishable for consumption off the premises.
To a smaller extent, toiletries, magazines, cigarettes and other pharmaceutical
supplies are offered for sale. In some instances, a bakery, delicatessen and
meat section within the establishment may also be included in this definition.
   Hotel/Motel: A single- or multi-story building where overnight
accommodations are available for at least twenty-five (25) travelers and guests
for an adequate fee.
   Illinois Liquor Control Act: An act passed by the Illinois General Assembly
entitled "An act relating to alcoholic liquors", approved January 31, 1934, as
amended.
   Illinois Liquor Control Commission or State Commission: The commission
created by the Illinois Liquor Control Act, 235 ILCS 5/3-1.
   Licensee: All persons: (1) who are issued a license or permit for the sale
of distribution of alcoholic liquor pursuant to this Chapter; or (2) who are
owners or are in control of any place where the sale or distribution of
alcoholic liquor is carried on, whether they be individuals, partners,
corporations, joint stock companies, fiduciaries or officers, directors,
stockholders of corporations, or otherwise.
   Liquor Store: A licensed establishment which engages in the retail sale of
packaged alcoholic liquor for use off the premises.
   Live Entertainment: The availability of music, singing, dancing or acting
whether it be live performance, recorded music or instrumental.
   Manager: A person employed by a licensee for the purpose of overseeing the
operation of a licensed business and exercising discretionary authority on
behalf of the licensee during the hours that the manager is on duty.
   Minor: Any person under the age of twenty-one (21).
   Motor Fuel Station: A retail establishment which offers the sale and pumping
of gasoline as well as vehicle maintenance items and repairs as its primary
business.
   Officer: Any director, stockholder, owner/manager or person who has a
financial interest of any nature in a private club or directs any policy of a
private club.
   Original Package: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead,
or other receptacle or container whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   Package Liquor: Alcoholic liquor in its original package for consumption off
the premise where it is sold.
   Premises: The location at which alcoholic liquor is licensed for retail
sale. Except as otherwise provided hereunder, parking lot areas shall not be
considered part of the licensed premises.
   Private Club: A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors as defined by § 1-3.24 of the Liquor
Control Act of 1934 (ILCS Ch. 235, Art 5, § 1-3.24) that complies with the
General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986 (ILCS Ch. 805, Act 105, §
101.01).
   Private Function: A prearranged private party, function, or event, lasting
no longer than three (3) days and is for a specific social or business
occasion, either by invitation or reservation, and not open to the general
public, where guests and attendants are served in a room, rooms or area
designated and used exclusively for the private party, function or event.
   Restaurant: Any public place, licensed under Class F or G of this Chapter,
where meals are prepared and served by workers specifically hired for such
duties; where overnight accommodations are not available; and the sale of
alcoholic liquor is only incidental to the serving of meals.
   Retail Sales: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   Sale: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, including the sales
made by any person whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   Spirits: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   Tavern: Every building or structure, licensed under Class D or E of this
Chapter, which is kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public,
other than a club, hotel, motel, or restaurant, where alcoholic liquor is sold
and consumed on the licensed premises as the primary monetary function of the
business.
   Video Gaming Establishment: Any public place kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public as a "licensed establishment" per the
Illinois Video Gaming Act, 235 ILCS 40/1 et. seq., where alcoholic liquor is
sold for consumption on the premises and whose principal purpose is the
operation of video gaming terminals as defined under the Act and
Chapter 5  of this Code. The sale of alcoholic liquor and/or food at a video
gaming establishment shall be incidental to the operation of video gaming
terminals.
   Wine: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-2. Purpose:
   This Chapter shall be liberally construed, to the end that the health,
safety, and welfare of the people shall be protected and the consumption and
sale of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and promoted by sound and careful
control and regulation of the sale and distribution of alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-3. Liquor Control:
   (a)   The Mayor shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner for that area
which lies inside the corporate limits of the city and shall be charged with
the administration of the laws of the state and the city as they relate to
licensing within the city and with the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   The Mayor Pro Tem shall act as Deputy Local Liquor Control
Commissioner during a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor, or when the
Mayor may not be available to conduct a hearing, or as otherwise directed by
the Mayor, and shall possess the powers of a Local Liquor Control Commissioner
as provided for in the Illinois Liquor Control Act.
   (c)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall possess all the powers and
duties as provided for in the Illinois Liquor Control Act, including but not
limited to the following:
      (1)   To grant or deny all licenses, permits or certificates applied for
or issued under this chapter to persons for premises within their jurisdiction;
      (2)   To enter into and to authorize any investigator, inspector, or
police officer to enter onto any licensed premises to determine whether any of
the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, or of this chapter, or of
any rules and regulations adopted by the Commissioner, or by the state
commission has been violation.
      (3)   To investigate by all means, in accordance with law, violations of
this Code or of the Illinois Liquor Control Act.
      (4)   To exercise all the powers, functions, and duties which now or may
hereafter may be granted to him by the Illinois Liquor Control Act, or by this
chapter.
      (5)   To suspend or revoke any license, permit or certificate issued
under this chapter or assess a fine for each violation of law or ordinance.
(Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024; amd. Ord. 50-2025, 4-29-2025)
Sec. 3-4. Persons Ineligible To Be Licensed:
   (a)   No license shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter to:
   (1)   A person who does not live within thirty five (35) miles from the City
of Rock Island, City Hall located at 1528 3rd Avenue, Rock Island, IL.
   (2)   A person who has been convicted of a felony unless they are granted a
license pursuant to paragraph (c) of Sec.
3-7 of this chapter.
   (3)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or has
forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   (4)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning gambling.
   (5)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon
      for the full period for which the license is to be issued.
   (6)   A person whose license, issued under this chapter or under the
Illinois Liquor Control Act, has been revoked for cause, or whose license is
actively suspended.
   (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   (8)   A person whose place of business is supervised by a manager, unless
said manager possesses the same qualifications required by the licensee and
resides within thirty five (35) miles from the City of Rock Island, City Hall,
located at 1528 3rd Avenue, Rock Island, IL.
   (9)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   (10)   A co-partnership, unless all the persons forming a part of such co-
partnership shall be qualified to obtain a license, except that only one
partner shall be required to reside within thirty five (35) miles from the City
of Rock Island, City Hall located at 1528 3rd Avenue, Rock Island, IL.
   (11)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is
a foreign corporation qualified under Illinois law to do business in the state,
and the establishment is managed by an individual who resides within thirty-
five (35) miles from 1528 3rd Avenue, Rock Island, IL.
   (12)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and/or the requirement to reside within thirty
five (35) miles from the City of Rock Island, City Hall located at 1528 3rd
Avenue, Rock Island, IL.
   (13)   Any law enforcing public official, including the Commissioner, Mayor,
members of the city council, or any president or member of a county board; and
no such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises which are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the state liquor control commission.
   (14)   Any person or entity who is ineligible for a State Liquor License
pursuant to 235 ILCS 5/6-2. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-5. Licensing Procedure:
   (a)   Generally: No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') from the property boundaries of
any church, school, other than an institution of higher learning, hospital,
home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or
any military or naval station; provided that this prohibition shall not apply
to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, nor to the renewal of a license for the
sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100')
from the property boundaries of any church or school where such church or
school has been established within such one hundred feet (100') since the
issuance of the original license. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner has the
authority to waive
this restriction, only for good cause shown, and approval by the Planning and
Zoning Division within the City of Rock Island.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a church or
private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales are limited
to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the promotion
of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors.
   (b)   Adjacent Business: No liquor licenses shall be granted to any
applicant, or any premises not presently being used for the sale of alcoholic
liquors within the corporate limits of the city where the same is located in
any zone in the city which is at the time of the application either wholly or
partly devoted to business uses, unless the following first occurs:
   (1)   A notice letter will be mailed to all adjacent property owners within
three hundred feet (300') from the property boundaries of the proposed
location, and said letter shall be signed and mailed by the city clerk who will
also be the designated person to receive any written responses relating to an
objection to the proposed site. The letter shall contain the address of the
location, identity of the applicant, the type of liquor license requested, and
the opportunity to file any objections to the approval of the application
within two (2) weeks upon receipt of the letter.
   (2)   The applicant shall pay an additional fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for cost of mailing all letters and for staff time.
   (3)   The applicant shall file an affidavit stating that they have posted
the notice provided by the City Clerk on the proposed licensed premises.
   (4)   The notice letters described above shall be deposited in the U.S. mail
at least three (3) weeks prior to the granting of a liquor license, and a copy
of said letter shall be furnished to the applicant.
   (5)   In the event any location shall become and remain vacant for a period
of twelve (12) or more months consecutively, no new license shall be issued to
those premises without first following the notice requirement in accordance
with provisions of this section.
   (6)   If the Liquor Commissioner receives any objections to the granting of
the license, the Commissioner may, within their discretion, conduct further
investigation, or set the matter for hearing following the provisions of Sec.
3-12 of this Chapter.
   (c)   Stores:
   (1)   A grocery store, drugstore, convenience store or other store where
goods are sold at retail and where the primary business of such store consists
of sales of goods other than alcoholic liquor (is ineligible for a license);
provided, such stores shall not be an ineligible location if the alcoholic
liquor is separated from such other goods by way of turnstiles, fencing,
chains, walls, display racks, or other means suitable to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner. It is the intent of this subsection to prohibit the
licensing of stores in which the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the primary
business unless there are adequate controls to monitor those who enter and make
purchases of alcoholic beverages. For the purposes of this subsection, the
primary business in sales of goods other than alcoholic liquor shall be
determined by more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross revenue of all goods
sold being derived from the sale of goods
      other than alcoholic liquor, but shall not apply to restaurants and
hotels.
   (2)   Plan Required: All initial applications for licensing of stores or
upgrading of license classification for stores shall be accompanied by a plan
detailing the area, including cooler locations, where alcoholic liquor is to be
located and the means for separation. Such plan shall be reviewed and approved
by the local liquor commissioner or their designee prior to issuance of a
license.
   (d)   Motor Fuel Station: A motor fuel station located within the city shall
be an ineligible location for licensing hereunder, except that such locations
may obtain a Class C license which shall allow the sale of beer and wine in
sealed packages only, but not for consumption on the licensed premises.
   (e)   Private Clubs: A "private club" as defined in section
3-1  of this chapter unless having first obtained a valid Class K liquor
license. Private clubs licensed hereunder shall be subject to all of the
provisions of this chapter the same as any licensee. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-6. Locations Ineligible For License:
   (a)   No liquor license shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter
unless the applicant has completed the following application process:
   (1)   Application Form: All applicants shall complete an application form
which shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      a.   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, date and place of
birth, social security number, driver's license number, employment history and
criminal arrest record. In the case of a co-partnership or corporation, the
aforementioned information shall be provided on all officers of the
corporation, partners, and managers.
         1.   Any party required to register pursuant to either the Illinois
Liquor Control Act or this Chapter, shall submit their fingerprints to the Rock
Island Police Department and submit the required, nonrefundable processing fee
for the purpose of conducting a criminal history check.
      b.   The name, address, and telephone number of the location which is to
be licensed.
      c.   The type of license and any options requested.
      d.   If the applicant is a corporation, the date and place of
incorporation.
      e.   The length of time the business or corporation has been engaged in
the sale of alcoholic liquor.
      f.   The name and address of the landlord if the proposed location is not
owned by the applicant, and a copy of any lease for the proposed licensed
premises.
      g.   A statement that the proposed location is not located within one
hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or
indigent persons, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military or
naval base.
   (2)   Application Fee: All applications for initial licensing shall be
accompanied by a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) nonrefundable application fee.
   (3)   Affidavit, Signed: All applicants shall sign an affidavit stating that
the statements made in the application form are true and that any untruths or
omissions shall be grounds for revocation of a license. The affidavit shall
further state that the applicant agrees to observe all laws of the United
States, the state and the city in the conduct of their business.
   (4)   Proof Of Dram Shop Insurance: All applicants shall show evidence of
dram shop liability insurance or other proof of financial responsibility
satisfactory to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner prior to issuance/renewal
of any license.
   (5)   Private Clubs; Supplemental Information: All applicants for licensing
under the provisions of this chapter herein defined as a "private club"; shall
also submit the following application materials:
      a.   A list of all club officers and their addresses for the preceding
three (3) years. Whenever such officers shall change, a revised list shall be
forwarded to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner within ten (10) days.
      b.   A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws if the applicant
is a corporation, or articles of association, or bylaws, if the applicant is an
association. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-7. Licenses Generally:
   (a)   Right Of Entry And Inspection: The right of entry and inspection of
any licensed premises by any officer or agent of any department of the city
shall be a condition uponwhich every license hereunder shall be issued and the
acceptance of any license issued hereunder.
   (b)   Review And Investigation: All applications for licensing hereunder
shall be reviewed and investigated by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
and/or its designee.
      (1)   If upon investigation the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is
satisfied that the information contained therein is true and that the applicant
has complied with all the requirements of the state and the city, and the
Commissioner determines the issuance of the license is in the public's best
interests and will not adversely affect or have a substantial impact upon the
public health, safety or welfare, then the Commissioner shall approve the
application.
   (c)   Criminal Convictions: The Commissioner, upon a finding that an
applicant for a license was convicted of a felony or a violation of any federal
or State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic
liquor, shall consider any evidence of rehabilitation and mitigating factors
contained in the applicant's record including any of the following factors and
evidence, to determine if the conviction will impair the ability of the
applicant to engage in the position for which the license is sought:
      (1)   The lack of direct relation of the offense for which the applicant
was convicted to the duties, functions and responsibilities of the position for
which the license is sought;
      (2)   Whether eight (8) years since a felony conviction or five (5) years
since release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is later, have
passed without a subsequent conviction;
      (3)   If the applicant was previously licensed or employed in this State
or other states or jurisdictions, then the lack of prior misconduct arising
from or related to the licensed position or position of employment;
      (4)   The age of the person at the time of the criminal offense;
      (5)   Successful completion of sentence;
      (6)   Evidence of the applicant's present fitness and professional
character;
      (7)   Evidence of rehabilitation or rehabilitative effort during or after
incarceration, or during or after a term of supervision, including, but not
limited to, a certificate of good conduct under Section 5-5.5-25 (730 ILCS 5/5-
5.5-25) of the Unified Code of Corrections or a certificate of relief from
disabilities under Section 5-5.5-10 (730 ILCS 5/5-5.5-10) of the Unified Code
of Corrections; and
      (8)   Any other mitigating factors that contribute to the person's
potential and current ability to perform the duties and responsibilities of the
position for which a license or employment is sought.
   (d)   Denial Of License:
      (1)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is vested with the power to
refuse the issuance of a license if, after investigation it is determined upon
a finding of good cause that the issuance of the license would not be in the
public's best interest.
      (2)   If the Commissioner refuses to issue a license to an applicant,
then the Commissioner shall notify the applicant of the denial in writing with
the following included in the notice of denial.
         a.   A statement about the decision to refuse to issue a license;
         b.   A list of any convictions that the Commissioner determined will
impair the applicant's ability to engage in the position for which a license is
sought;
         c.   Any factor the Commissioner considered in determining that the
issuance of the license was not in the public's best interest; and
         d.   A summary of the appeal process or the earliest the applicant may
reapply for a license, whichever is applicable.
      (3)   Administrative Hearing: Upon any denial of issuance or renewal, the
licensee/applicant may request an administrative hearing before the City
Council to review such decision. Such hearing is a prerequisite to review by
the State Liquor Commission. The hearing procedures in Sec.
3-12  of this chapter shall be followed.
   (e)   Disclaimer: It is the responsibility of the applicant and/or licensee
to get both Local and State approval prior to operation.
(Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024; amd. Ord. 49-2025, 4-28-2025)
Sec. 3-8. Types Of Licenses And Fees:
   (a)   Generally: No person shall sell, barter, transport, deliver, solicit
or receive orders for, keep or expose for sale, keep with intent to sell, or
furnish any alcoholic liquor for sale at retail within the corporate limits of
the city without first having obtained a valid liquor license from the same.
   (b)   Shifting Devices: The giving away of any alcoholic liquor or any other
shift or device to evade the provisions of this chapter, shall be
unlawful and shall be punishable as unlawful selling. The dispensing of wine by
any church or religious organization for sacramental purposes shall, however,
not be subject to the licensing provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   Frequenting Unlicensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person
to frequent premises where alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for sale unless
there is conspicuously displayed on the premises a liquor license issued by the
city. Any person found to be frequenting unlicensed premises shall be subject
to a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (d)   Change Of Location: Any license issued hereunder shall embrace only
one place of business and shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in the
premises described in the application and license. The location may be changed
only upon written permission to make the change issued by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
   (e)   Transfer Of License:
   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (e)(2), a license shall be purely a
personal privilege, valid for not to exceed one calendar year, unless sooner
revoked as provided in this chapter. It shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution; nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee.
   (2)   A person holding a license under this subchapter who desires to sell
his or her place of business, together with the license, may do so provided:
      a.   The license must be surrendered to the city;
      b.   The name of the prospective purchaser must be furnished the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner;
      c.   The prospective purchaser must demonstrate to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner that he or she meets all the requirements for a license
under this subchapter
      d.   Upon the foregoing being fully complied with, a new license shall be
issued to the purchaser for the unexpired term of the surrendered license; and
      e.   No refund shall be paid to the person surrendering the license. If
the purchaser is refused the license, the license shall be returned to the
original licensee.
   (f)   Changes In Managers Or Agents: If during any licensing period the
previously designated manager or agent is replaced, the licensee shall notify
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner no later than ten (10) days following the
appointment of a new manager or agent; and the manager or agent shall provide
to the Local Liquor Commissioner the information required under subsection (1)
a of Sec.
3-6  of this Chapter for the purpose of investigating their eligibility to hold
such position.
   (g)   Licensing Period: The local liquor commissioner shall have the right
to grant retail liquor licenses for the selling at retail of alcoholic liquor
for the period beginning on May 1 of any year and ending on April 30 of the
next or succeeding year.
   (h)   Semiannual Renewal Option: Liquor licenses issued hereunder on a
semiannual basis shall be subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) handling fee to be
paid with the regular license fee for the
second six (6) month period of any licensing year.
   (1)   Semiannual Renewal Option: Liquor licenses issued hereunder on a
semiannual basis shall be subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) handling fee to be
paid with the regular license fee for the second six (6) month period of any
licensing year.
   (i)   Renewal Of Licenses: All liquor licenses issued hereunder must be
renewed annually. Applications for renewal must be received by the liquor
commissioner at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of the
license. All requests for renewal shall be accompanied by an affidavit stating
that the activities of the establishment have not deviated from the original
application and classification of the license. Failure to meet the deadline for
renewal may necessitate the filing of a new application by the licensee.
   (1)   Investigation: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall review the
renewal application for any updates that require further investigation and
shall issue the renewal unless the renewal application or further investigation
identifies information prohibiting the issuance of a license pursuant to the
municipal code or other reasons provided in this Chapter. Upon denial of any
renewal, the Commissioner shall provide a written notice to the applicant
stating the reasons for denial and opportunity for an administrative hearing to
present evidence and have the decision reviewed.
   (2)   Fees: No license shall be renewed unless the licensee has paid the
annual fee for the applicable classification of their license pursuant to this
chapter, and any taxes, fees, assessments or penalties owed to the city or
state in connection with the operation of any business conducted on the
licensed premise by the licensee. No renewal shall be granted until the
licensee has paid any outstanding food and beverage taxes owed to the City,
water bills, judgments, fines, or any other amount outstanding and due to the
City.
   (j)   Payment Of License Fees: All license fees established hereunder shall
be paid to the city collector prior to issuance of any license or the renewal
of any license. License fees established hereunder shall be reduced in
proportion to the number of full calendar months which have expired in the
licensing period set forth in subsection (g) or (h) of this section; however,
no license shall be issued for any term less than the balance of the unexpired
license period. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-9. Supplemental License Options And Fees:
   (a)   Hours Of Operation: All licenses issued hereunder shall allow the
licensee to be open Monday through Saturday from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and Sunday from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. Class F and G licenses may reopen one hour after closing,
but the service of alcoholic beverages may only occur during the hours herein
identified. The hours established herein shall be Central Standard Time, except
when daylight saving time is in effect and then those hours shall be Central
Daylight-Saving Time.
   (b)   Within the B-2 (downtown business) zoning district, no license holder
shall offer for sale package liquor, or any alcohol for consumption off
premises, before five o'clock (5:00) P.M. This shall apply to all days of the
week. Breweries and Restaurants within the B-2 zoning district, however, shall
be exempt from this restriction. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-10. Minors:
   Effective the 2024 licensing year, the following class of licenses shall be
in full force and effect. A license previously issued, and subject to renewal,
may be reclassified into the appropriate class by the applicant or the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. The Commissioner shall have the right to
investigate, and determine the appropriate Class for each license holder.
   (a)   Class A, Packaged Sales Only - Primary Business: License shall be
issued when the sale of alcoholic liquors is the primary business of the
licensee. "Primary business" shall mean that (i) twenty five percent (25%) or
more of the square footage of the store available for sales is dedicated to the
displays or promotion of alcoholic liquors, or (ii) if fifty percent (50%) or
more of its total gross revenue in any month is derived from the sale of
alcohol. A license shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the
premises where sold, except that reasonable tasting/sampling of alcoholic
liquor by patrons may be allowed on the licensed premises of establishments.
   (1)   The annual fee for a Class A licenses shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   (2)   Minors are not allowed in a Class A licensed premises.
   (b)   Class B, Packaged Sales Only - Secondary Business: License shall be
issued when (i) less than twenty five percent (25%) of the square footage of
the store available for sales is dedicated to the displays or promotion of
alcoholic liquors and (ii) less than fifty percent (50%) of the gross revenue
in any month from the operation of the licensed premises is derived from the
sale of alcohol. A license shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on
the premises where sold, except that reasonable tasting/sampling of alcoholic
liquor by patrons may be allowed on the licensed premises of establishments
over ten thousand (10,000) square feet in size.
   (1)   The annual fee for a Class B licenses shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   (c)   Class C, Packaged Sales Only - Beer And Wine: License shall be issued
when less than twenty five percent (25%) of the square footage of the store
available for sales is dedicated to the displays or promotion of alcoholic
liquors, (ii) less than fifty percent (50%) of the gross revenue in any month
from the operation of the licensed premises is derived from the sale of
alcohol, and (iii) and the licensee sells only beer or wine. A license shall
permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the premises where sold, except
that reasonable tasting/sampling of alcoholic liquor by patrons may be allowed
on the licensed premises of establishments over ten thousand (10,000) square
feet in size.
   (1)   The annual fee for a class C license shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   (d)   Class D, Tavern With Packaged Sales: License shall permit the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor in sealed packages for consumption off premises, as
well as for consumption on the licensed premises.
   (1)   The annual fee for a class D license shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   (2)   Minors are not allowed in a class D licensed premises.
   (e)   Class E, Tavern: License shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the licensed premises.
   (1)   The annual fee for a class E license shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   (2)   A Class E Licensee may sell cocktails, mixed drinks, or single
servings of wine placed in a retailer's sealed container or a manufacturer's
original container for off-premises consumption, subject to 235 ILCS 5/6-28.8.
   (3)   Minors are not allowed in a class E licensed premises.
   (f)   Class F, Restaurant: License shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
   (1)   Service of alcoholic liquor shall be only during the time that food is
prepared on the premises and is available to be served, a full menu is in
effect, and a cook or chef, whose primary duties shall not include bartending
or the service of alcoholic liquor, is in attendance.
   (2)   A Class F licensee may sell cocktails, mixed drinks, or single
servings of wine placed in a retailer's sealed container or a manufacturer's
original container, for off-premises consumption, subject to 235 ILCS 5/6-28.8
   (3)   Minors may be allowed on premises licensed as a class F license
pursuant to this section for the purposes other than the purchase or
consumption of alcoholic liquors; however, no minor may be allowed to sit at a
bar.
   (4)   The annual fee for a Class F license shall be one thousand one hundred
dollars ($1,100.00).
   (g)   Class G, Restaurant - Wine And Beer Only: Licensee meets all the
requirements of a Class F license except that the restaurant serves only wine
and beer.
   (1)   Service of wine and beer shall be only during the time that food is
prepared on the premises and is available to be served, a menu is in effect,
and a cook or chef, whose primary duties shall not include bartending or the
service of alcoholic liquor, is in attendance.
   (2)   Minors may be allowed on premises licensed as a class G license
pursuant to this section for the purposes other than the purchase or
consumption of alcoholic liquors; however, no minor may be allowed to sit at a
bar.
   (3)   The annual fee for a Class G license shall be seven hundred dollars
($700.00).
   (h)   Class H, Consumption On Premises - Incidental Purpose: License shall
permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption only on the premises
where sold, and not for resale in any form. The primary business of the
establishment shall not be for the sale or alcohol. This includes but is not
limited to, live theaters, performing arts centers, movie theaters, bowling
centers, recreational centers, and any private or public state-chartered
college or university.
   (1)   Minors may be allowed on premises licensed as a class H license
pursuant to this section for the purposes other than the purchase or
consumption of alcoholic liquors; however, no minor may be allowed to sit at a
bar.
   (2)   The annual fee for a class H license shall be one thousand one hundred
dollars ($1,100.00).
   (i)   Class I, Hotel/Motel: license shall permit the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises whether for private events or
public consumption in a tavern, lounge area, or banquet room only, and not for
resale in any form to other portions of a premises which meet the definition of
a hotel as defined in Sec.
3-1  of this chapter.
   (1)   Minors may be allowed on premises licensed as a class I license
pursuant to this section for the purposes other than the purchase or
consumption of alcoholic liquors; however, no minor may be allowed to sit at a
bar.
   (2)   The annual fee for a Class I license shall be one thousand one hundred
dollars ($1,100.00).
   (j)   Class J Banquet Facilities: license shall permit the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption only on the premises where sold and not for
resale in any form to premises which meet the definition of a hotel as defined
in section
3-1  of this Chapter.
   (1)   Sales for consumption on the premises used exclusively for private
functions: Hors d'oeuvres, meals or other foods from the licensee or a licensed
food establishment must be served at every private function when alcohol is
being served.
   (2)   Minors may be allowed on premises licensed as a Class J license
pursuant to this section for the purpose other than the purchase or consumption
of alcoholic liquors; however, no minor may be allowed to sit at a bar.
   (3)   The annual fee for a Class J license shall be one thousand one hundred
dollars ($1,100.00).
   (k)   Class K, Private Clubs/Fraternal Organizations: License shall permit
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the licensed premises,
as well as other retail sales of packaged alcoholic liquor for consumption off
the licensed premises for an organization that meets the definition of private
club as defined in Sec.
3-1  of this chapter.
   (1)   Packaged alcoholic liquor sold for off premises consumption shall not
comprise greater than fifty percent (50%) of the total annual sales of all
alcoholic liquor for said licensee.
   (2)   Minors may be allowed on premises licensed as a class K license
pursuant to this section for the purposes other than the purchase or
consumption of alcoholic liquors; however, no minor may be allowed to sit at a
bar.
   (3)   The annual fee for a Class K license shall be one thousand one hundred
dollars ($1,100.00).
   (l)   Class L, City Owned Facilities: License shall permit the retail sale
of beer, wine and distilled spirits at city owned facilities and also permits
the sale of beer and wine at identified facilities operated or maintained by
the City.
   (1)   May include the use of fifty milliliter (50 ml) bottles (typically
referred to as airline bottles) to pour and serve mixed drinks at city owned
golf courses.
   (2)   This license shall not allow the retail sale of beer, wine or
distilled spirits for consumption off the licensed premises of city owned
property, to include golf courses and any other designated park facilities.
   (3)   This license shall only be in effect during regular business hours or
during authorized events.
   (4)   The sale of alcoholic beverages at the Sunset Marina shall be
controlled by the provisions of this chapter, except that the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall have the discretion to prorate the license fee for
those premises for the period of time during the license year that the premises
are open for business.
   (5)   Minors may be allowed on premises licensed as a Class L license
pursuant to this section for purposes other than the purchase or consumption of
alcoholic liquors; however, no minor may be allowed to sit at a bar.
   (6)   The annual fee for a class L license shall be two hundred and seventy-
five dollars ($275.00).
   (m)   Class M, Caterer's License: License shall permit restaurants or
caterer retailers, as defined in Sec.
3-1  of this Chapter, whether located inside or outside of the City of Rock
Island, to cater food and/or alcoholic beverages at catering locations within
the City of Rock Island.
   (1)   Caterers and Restaurants serving food shall have a valid City of Rock
Island food license.
   (2)   The hours that alcohol may be served or sold, unless a variance is
granted by the liquor commissioner, is Sunday from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the next day and Monday through Saturday from six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the next day.
   (3)   At least thirty (30) days prior to the private function's scheduled
date, the licensee must advise in writing the liquor commissioner of the date,
times and location of the event.
   (4)   Prior to the issuance of this license the licensee must provide
verification to the liquor commissioner that its dram shop insurance covers
catering events and locations.
   (5)   Minors may be allowed on premises licensed as a class L license
pursuant to this section for the purposes other than the purchase or
consumption of alcoholic liquors; however, no minor may be allowed to sit at a
bar.
   (6)   The annual fee for a Class M license shall be three hundred and fifty
dollars ($350.00) for caterers and restaurants located within the City of Rock
Island, and seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for caterers and
restaurants located outside the City of Rock Island.
   (7)   The requirement that the licensee shall live within thirty five (35)
miles of 1528 3rd Avenue, Rock Island, IL, in Sec. 3-4 of this Chapter shall
not apply to those seeking a Caterer's license for an establishment outside of
the City of Rock Island.
   (n)   Class N, Bring Your Own Beverage (BYOB): Which shall authorize the
consumption of beer and wine only that is brought onto the licensed premises of
a business, restaurant, or craft brewery.
   (1)   Class N licenses shall be issued subject to the applicant's compliance
with all the following conditions:
      a.   Patrons may bring onto the premises no more than seventy-two (72)
ounces of unopened beer and/or no more than seven hundred and fifty (750)
milliliters of unopened wine per two (2) patrons over the age of twenty-one
(21).
      b.   This license shall permit beer or wine to be consumed only in
conjunction with the purchase and consumption of a meal served in a manner that
complies with City codes and regulations, or when a patron is receiving
services such as at cosmetic facilities, spas, art studios, or other live
entertainment establishments.
      c.   All employees performing corkage, pouring, or serving duties must
receive all training required of a licensee.
      d.   The licensee may charge a corkage fee.
      e.   The licensee shall not permit any customer to leave the premises
with any open beer container or any open wine container other than wine secured
in compliance with the requirements of section 6-33 of the State Liquor Control
Act (235 ILCS 5/6-33).
      f.   The annual fee for such license shall be two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250.00).
   (2)   No liquor license shall be issued to any fast food or convenience-type
store, establishment or facility.
   (3)   Video gaming is prohibited in businesses that possesses a Class 'N'
license.
   (4)   Class N licensees shall not retain any alcoholic beverage on the
premises after the patron who brought it has departed.
   (o) - (r)   Reserved.
   (s)   Special Event Liquor License: Authorizes the sale of alcohol at an
approved designated site for special events, including festivals, markets, food
truck events, and other approved events.
   (1)   The following special event liquor licenses are available for the
purpose of special events on city owned properties:
      a.   Parks And Recreation Department Operated Property Or Facility: Upon
the approval, first by the Parks and Recreation Director or their designee, and
then by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, a "special event liquor license"
may be granted to an approved Rock Island license holder to sell alcohol for
special events at any property or facility operated by the parks and recreation
department.
      b.   City Properties Not Under The Jurisdiction Of The Parks And
Recreation Department: Upon the approval of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, a "special event liquor license" may be granted to an approved
Rock Island license holder to sell alcoholic liquor at any designated city
owned location.
      c.   Upon the approval by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, a
license holder may be granted a "special event liquor license" to transfer a
portion of its alcoholic inventory from its licensed premises to a designated
site within the city for a special event.
   (2)   A special event liquor license may be issued for the purpose of
special events not on City owned properties. The property owner is responsible
for providing proof of dram shop insurance for the site.
   (3)   The special event liquor license holder may invite other retailers or
caterers to serve alcohol at the special event, without the invitees applying
for a separate caterer's license.
   (4)   A special event liquor license cannot exceed three (3) days in
duration and days must be consecutive.
   (5)   The area designated where the alcohol sales are to take place must be
located within a demarcated area, with all appropriate safeguards to control
the sales, age requirements, and safety indicated.
   (6)   For events that are to be for one day or less in duration, the fee
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per event/location
   (7)   For events that are to be for two (2) or three (3) consecutive days,
the fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per event/location.
   (8)   A Class L license holder may apply for a special event license for a
single themed event, which would be characterized by an event with the same
theme and at the same location, but may run nonconsecutive days for up to
fifteen (15) days in duration, or additional days upon the Commissioner's
approval.
   (9)   The fee for a single themed event shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per event. After receiving prior approval by the appropriate policy
making board and/or property owners, all special use permit liquor license
applications must be received by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner's office
no later than twenty-one (21) days in advance of the first day of the scheduled
event.
   (10)   Said applications shall include, but are not limited to, the
following information:
      a.   Name and contact information of applicant/liquor license holder for
the event;
      b.   A description of the event;
      c.   The date(s) and time(s) that the event will be held;
      d.   The address and location of the event;
      e.   The proposed area(s) inside of the designated location where the
alcohol sales are to occur;
      f.   The name/type of event being proposed;
      g.   Submission of proof of dram shop insurance to the maximum limit that
has been secured for this event, naming, where applicable, the city of Rock
Island, Illinois, as an additional insured;
      h.   Proof of approval by the policy board or property owner that
operates the property or facility.
   (t)   Class T, Temporary License: Upon approval by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, a Class T or temporary license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail
may be granted to organized clubs, societies, associations, fraternal
organizations, duly constituted churches or other not for profit organizations.
A temporary license may be issued pursuant to this subsection for one day, two
(2) consecutive days, or three (3) consecutive days. The license shall specify
on its face the duration.
   (1)   No organization shall be issued more than one temporary license during
any thirty (30) day period. This restriction may be waived by the Commissioner,
and, if so waived, the fee for such additional temporary license shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.
   (2)   All applications for temporary licenses must be received by the
Commissioner at least thirty (30) days prior to the dates being requested.
   (3)   All applicants for temporary licenses shall show evidence of dram shop
liability insurance or other proof of financial responsibility prior to
issuance of such license.
   (4)   The fee for a Class T license shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
per day.
   (u)   If any premises, which initially applies for and is licensed, later
wishes to reclassify the license to another class of license, it shall be
considered by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and may be treated as a new
license application, and all application procedures contained in this chapter
may apply. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-11. Operation:
   (a)   License Options; Generally: Upon approval of the liquor commissioner,
license holders may apply for supplemental license options. All supplemental
license options shall be issued on the same qualifications, terms and
conditions required for the original license.
   (1)   Extended Hours Option:
      a.   Extended Hours Two O'Clock (2:00) A.M. Option: All Class D, E, F, G,
and K liquor license holders may apply for an "extended hour two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. license option". As of April 30, 2013, the license holders in
classifications who currently have this option available will still be able to
retain it, even though their classification may have changed. A holder of this
license may be open all days except Sunday from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the following day and on Sundays from seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. to two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the following Monday. The annual fee for
the "extended hours two o'clock (2:00) A.M. option" shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      b.   Recording System/ID Scanners:
         1.   Effective the 2025 license year, all liquor license holders with
an extended hours option shall be required to install and maintain a
functioning recording system both inside and outside of the licensed premises.
Said videos shall be maintained in proper working order and be made available
for viewing by all law enforcement personnel.
         2.   Effective the 2025 license year, all Class D and E liquor license
holders with an extended hours option shall be required to implement and
require the use of identification (ID) scanners prior to any entry at and after
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. License holders that had a valid extended license for
the year 2023 are exempt from this requirement. This exemption is non-
transferrable to any future license holders on the premises.
         3.   Failure to maintain a functioning recording system and ID Scanner
shall result in the liquor license being suspended until such recording system
and ID Scanner are in working order.
   (2)   License Options, Live Entertainment - Limited: All class D, E, F, G,
H, I, J, K, and L license holders may apply for a "Live Entertainment -
Limited, License Option." The option shall permit the licensed establishment to
have live entertainment on Friday and Saturday nights of every week. The annual
fee for the live entertainment - limited option shall be two hundred twenty
dollars ($220.00).
   (3)   License Options, Live Entertainment - Continuous: All Class D, E, F,
G, and K license holders may apply for a "Live Entertainment - Continuous
Option." The option shall permit the licensed establishment to have live
entertainment seven (7) days per week. The annual fee for the live
entertainment - continuous option shall be four hundred forty dollars
($440.00).
   (4)   Amusement Features Permitted: The entertainment authorized in
subsections (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section shall permit any amusement
feature including music, vaudeville, comedy, singing, acting, dancing or
contests, and disc jockey, whether by personal performance or instrumental
device.
      a.   It shall be cause for revocation or suspension as herein provided if
the licensee, his manager or agent, shall allow any live person to appear or
have reasonable cause to believe that any live person shall appear in any
licensed premises in a state of nudity to provide entertainment, to provide
service, to act as hostess, manager or owner, or to serve as an employee in any
capacity.
      b.   For the purposes of this subsection, the term "nudity" shall mean
the showing of the human male or female genitalia, pubic area or buttocks, or
the human female breast, including the nipple or any portion below the nipple
with less than a full opaque covering.
   (5)   License Options, Outdoor Events: License Options; Outdoor Events: Upon
approval of the local liquor commissioner and the city council, holders of
class D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K and L licenses shall be allowed to conduct outdoor
events provided that the following conditions are met:
      a.   The local liquor commissioner receives a written request at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the planned event.
      b.   The event is to be held on property owned by the licensee, and
adequate measures are provided to secure the outdoor area where the event will
take place so as to prevent access by minors.
      c.   Outdoor musical entertainment, if provided, and sound amplifying
equipment utilized shall be kept at a decibel level which does not unduly
disturb the peace and quiet of the surrounding neighborhood.
      d.   Outdoor musical entertainment, if provided, shall cease at ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. unless specifically extended upon approval of the event.
Such extensions shall be granted based upon consideration of the character of
the surrounding neighborhood and/or presentation of other information showing
lack of objection from surrounding property owners.
      e.   The fee for an Outdoor Events Option shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each day for which the option is to be used.
   (6)   License Options, Caterer's Retail License Option:
      a.   A person, corporation, or business entity who holds a valid City of
Rock Island liquor license, and who would otherwise meet the
         qualifications for a class M Caterer's License, may apply for the
Caterer's Retail License Option for no additional fee.
      b.   All requirements of a Class M license shall be followed for these
option holders.
   (7)   License Option, Outdoor Service: Upon application and approval by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, a licensee may serve alcoholic beverages
outside of an enclosed building for no additional fee, so long as the following
conditions are met:
      a.   All activities occur on the licensed property, or on City owned
property or right-of-way which immediately abuts the licensed premises if
approved by City Council;
      b.   No glass containers are used on City owned property or right-of way;
      c.   The outdoor use on public property shall not exceed twelve o'clock
(12:00) A.M.;
      d.   Any sound equipment or stereo system is kept at a reasonable volume
and shall not be audible from adjoining properties; and
      e.   At least one (1) employee must frequent the outside premises to
monitor the activities of the patrons;
      f.   The outdoor area (except for public property or right-of-way) is
either on a patio connected to the building; or is fenced in by a combination
of the building exterior wall(s) and a permanent fence of at least six feet
(6') in height for taverns, and four feet (4') in height for all restaurants;
      g.   No access to the outdoor portion of the licensed premises shall be
permitted except through the permanent structure of the licensed premises; and
      h.   Any outdoor use on public right-of-way or public property shall
require proof of insurance on behalf of the City as authorized by the
Commissioner. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-12. Hearing Procedures:
   (a)   The following Classes have limits as to how many licenses may be
issued:
   (1)   No more than one (1) Class A Licenses shall be issued.
   (2)   No more than twenty (20) Class B Licenses shall be issued.
   (3)   No more than three (3) Class C Licenses.
   (4)   No more than one (1) Class D Licenses shall be issued.
   (5)   No more than eighteen (18) Class E Licenses shall be issued.
   (b)   Classes With Restrictions: The restriction on the number of licenses
shall not limit the right to the renewal of any existing license nor to the
issuance of a license to the purchaser of an established licensed business as a
going concern, but as licenses are revoked, expire without renewal, or for any
other reason cease to exist, then the total number of liquor licenses in that
class will be reduced until the cap on the class is met.
   (c)   Exception To Limits: The Commissioner, may, in his discretion, grant
the creation of an additional license in a Class with a restriction on size
that has already been met, if, it is found that the creation of such license is
necessary for the public convenience of the residents of Rock Island and it is
in the best interest of the City of Rock Island. In deciding whether to issue a
license under this exception, the Mayor shall consider the following non-
exhaustive list of factors:
   (1)   The Class of liquor license applied for;
   (2)   Whether most of the establishment's anticipated gross revenue will be
from sale of alcohol or other resources;
   (3)   The character and nature of the proposed establishment;
   (4)   The general design, layout and contents of the proposed establishment;
   (5)   The location of the proposed establishment and the probable impact of
a liquor establishment at that location upon the surrounding neighborhood or
the City as a whole;
   (6)   The extent to which other businesses are licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages at retail in the area under consideration;
   (7)   The probable demand for the proposed liquor establishment in the City;
   (8)   The financial responsibility of the applicant;
   (9)   Whether the applicant, or (if the applicant is a partnership or
corporation) any partner, officer or director of the applicant has ever held a
liquor license and his or her performance as a licensee;
   (10)   Whether the applicant intends to furnish live entertainment in the
establishment, and if so, the nature of such entertainment; and
   (11)   Whether the premises comply with all pertinent health and safety
codes applicable within the City. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-13.   Single Containers:
   (a)   It is unlawful for a holder of a Class A, B, C, D or E liquor license
to offer for sale or to sell at retail any of the following in its original
packaging for off-premises consumption:
   (1)   A single container of beer or malt beverage if the volume of the
container is less than forty-eight (48) ounces (or approximately 1.42 liters)
unless said container is either part of a purchase of multiple containers of
beer or malt beverage for which the aggregate total volume purchased is no less
than forty-eight (48) ounces (or approximately 1.42 liters); or alternatively,
for which the aggregate cost of the container or containers of beer or malt
beverage purchased is no less than ten dollars ($10.00) exclusive of taxes and
after the application of all coupons, discounts and rebates.
   (2)   A single container of wine if the volume of the container is less than
twenty (20) fluid ounces (or approximately .62 liters) unless said container is
part of a purchase of multiple containers of wine for which the aggregate total
volume purchased is no less than twenty-four (24) ounces (or .748 liters).
   (3)   A single container of alcoholic liquor, other than beer, malt
beverage, or wine, if the volume of the container is less than six and eight-
tenths (6.8) ounces (or .200 liters).
   (4)   This provision does not apply to those authorized to sell cocktails,
mixed drinks, or single servings of wine placed in a retailer's sealed
container or a manufacturer's original container, for off-premises consumption,
subject to 235 ILCS 5/6-28.8. (Ord. 056-2020, 10-12-2020; Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-
2024)
Sec. 3-14.   Minors:
   (a)   Definition: As defined in section
3-1  of this chapter, a "minor" shall mean any person under the age of twenty-
one (21) years.
   (b)   Sale To Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
licensed under the provisions of this chapter, or any agent thereof, to give,
sell, or deliver any alcoholic liquor to any minor.
   (c)   Purchase And Consumption By Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any minor to purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or to possess or
consume any alcoholic liquor.
   (d)   Proof Of Age Required: If a licensee pursuant to this chapter or agent
thereof shall believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the minority of the prospective recipient, he or she shall before
making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of acceptable
identification containing proof of age. The acceptance must be made in
reasonable reliance that the person presenting the identification is in fact of
legal age and the same person pictured on the ID. The following types of
identification are acceptable forms of identification for purposes of entering
a licensed establishment and/or purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor:
vehicle operator's license; state photo identification card for nondrivers;
passport or visa.
   (e)   Proof Of Age; Refusal To Produce: No person when on premises licensed
under this chapter shall refuse to show proof of his or her age when asked to
do so by the licensee or agent thereof. Any person who fails to produce
positive proof of age when so requested shall immediately be advised to leave
the licensed premises.
   (f)   Falsification Of Proof Of Age Prohibited: With respect to any
identifying document containing proof of age issued by a public officer in the
performance of official duties, no person shall:
   (1)   Alter or deface such identifying document; or
   (2)   Present identifying documents belonging to another person as their
own; or
   (3)   Carry or use a false or forged identification document; or
   (4)   Obtain any document establishing identity by means of false
information.
   (g)   Employment Of Persons Aged Eighteen (18) To Twenty (20) Years Old.
Minors Prohibited: No minor shall be employed by a licensee, except for the
purpose of preparing or serving food, providing entertainment and/or providing
maintenance or cleanup services. At no time shall any minor tend any bar or
pour, mix, or draw any alcoholic liquor in any premises licensed under the
provisions of this chapter except persons who are eighteen (18), nineteen (19)
or twenty (20) years old who are acting in pursuance of their employment.
   (h)   Compliance Not A Defense: No licensee or any agent thereof shall raise
as a defense to this section his or her compliance with subsection (d) of this
section. However, such fact shall be considered by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner in mitigation of the finding of guilt for violation of this
section.
   (i)   Consumption By Minor; Exclusion: Nothing in this section shall
preclude the consumption by a minor of alcoholic liquor in the performance of
religious services or under direct
supervision of the parents or parent of such minor in the privacy of a home.
   (j)   Solicitation Of An Individual To Purchase Alcohol by A Person Under
Twenty-One: No person shall solicit any individual to purchase alcohol for
possession or consumption by any person under the age of twenty-one (21).
   (k)   Violation; Penalty: The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions
of this section shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event a
person is accused of a violation and does not wish to contest the allegation
prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so
accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for and in full satisfaction of the
violation. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-15.   Operation:
   (a)   License Posted: Every holder of a license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall immediately post and keep posted while in force, in a conspicuous
location on the premises, the license so issued. Whenever such license is lost
or destroyed, a duplicate thereof shall be issued by the local liquor
commissioner upon application by the licensee, who shall also make a verified
statement of loss or destruction. A twenty-five-dollar ($25.00) processing fee
shall be charged for issuance of any duplicate license.
   (b)   Compliance With Health And Safety Codes: All premises licensed
hereunder shall at all times be kept in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition
and shall comply with all building and safety codes so established by the city,
county and state.
   (c)   Occupancy Load: The established occupant load of any licensed premises
shall not exceed the posted capacity at any time.
   (d)   Accessibility: During the hours of operation applicable to the class
of license held by the licensee, the doors to any licensed premises shall
remain unlocked unless such premises are closed for business. At no time shall
entrances to a licensed premise be locked when any patrons of said
establishment are present, except that doors may be locked fifteen (15) minutes
prior to closing time where exits are arranged so as to be readily opened from
the side from which egress is to be made, i.e., equipped with panic bar exit.
   (e)   View Of Premises: No licensee hereunder or agent thereof shall
willfully obscure or in any manner obstruct any door or window of any licensed
premises with any screen, blind, curtain, partition or other object which would
prevent clear view into the licensed premises.
   (f)   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection (e) of this section shall
apply to all premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed, provided that those provisions shall not apply
to restaurants, hotels or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the primary business.
   (g)   Closing Time: At the closing time applicable to the class of license
held by any licensee hereunder, the selling, dispensing and serving of all
alcoholic liquor shall cease. The licensee, or agent thereof, shall from such
closing time have a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes in which
to clear the premises of all persons other than bona fide employees of the
licensed establishment who are engaged in cleanup activities. If any law
enforcement officer of the city shall believe that any person remaining in any
licensed premises after closing time is not a bona fide employee engaged in
cleanup activities, said officer may demand evidence documenting said
employment. It shall be the responsibility of the licensee or any agent or
employee thereof to produce proof of bona fide employment.
   (h)   Telephone Required: All establishments licensed under the provisions
of this chapter shall have on their premises at least one operational
telephone. All licensees or agents thereof shall telephone the police
department if asked to do so
or if any violation of the law occurs on the licensed premises. No licensee or
his agents or employees shall withhold information or fail to aid police in
their investigation.
   (i)   Gambling Devices: No gambling device or other gambling paraphernalia
shall be kept or used for the purpose of gambling in any location licensed
under the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, the prohibitions
provided for in this chapter and any other chapter of this code that may
reference or govern gambling or gambling devices shall not preclude any
activity or device permitted under the laws of the State of Illinois, so long
as the device or paraphernalia complies with all requirements under the laws of
the State of Illinois, and in addition thereto, complies with all requirements
of this and any other ordinance of the city of Rock Island, Illinois, related
to such gambling device or other gambling paraphernalia.
   (j)   Delivery: No licensee, or agent thereof, shall order to receive the
delivery of any alcoholic liquor on Sunday at the premises so licensed or at
any other premises.
   (k)   Employment Of Felon: No licensee or agent thereof shall employ or
permit to be employed any person who has been convicted of a felony within
fifteen (15) years prior to his or her employment as a manager or bartender in
any premises licensed under this chapter. However, any person seeking
employment as a bartender who has been convicted as a felon within the last
fifteen (15) years, may, by application submitted to the liquor commissioner,
seek a hearing before the liquor commissioner on the question as to whether the
applicant has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust to
allow said applicant to be employed as a bartender before the fifteen (15) year
period since his or her felony conviction has passed. After said application
has been submitted, the liquor commissioner may direct the police department to
conduct a full investigation and then schedule a hearing before the liquor
commissioner on the issue. At said hearing, the applicant may appear with or
without counsel and present evidence as to why his or her request should be
granted.
   (l)   Sale To Certain Persons Prohibited: No licensee hereunder or agent
thereof shall sell, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated
person or to any person he or she knows to be under legal disability or in need
of mental treatment. For the purposes of this section, "legally disabled" shall
mean the same as "judged incompetent".
   (m)   Indecency/Obscenity Prohibited: No licensee hereunder shall allow any
person to engage in any act of public indecency or obscenity upon any licensed
premises. For the purpose of this section, "indecency" shall mean the same as
the definition contained in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-9; and
"obscenity" shall mean the same as the definition contained in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20.
   (n)   Prostitution/Pandering Prohibited: No licensee hereunder shall allow
any person to solicit another for the purpose of prostitution upon any licensed
premises; nor shall any licensee hereunder, or agent thereof, arrange or offer
to arrange for money or anything of value a situation in which a person may
practice prostitution.
   (o)   Warning Signs To Be Posted: Every licensed establishment within the
city, where alcoholic liquor is sold, shall display in a prominent place near
to and clearly visible at all points of entry a printed warning which shall
read as follows:
   WARNING
      Persons under 21 are, by city ordinance, subject to a fine up to $500.00
for consuming or possessing alcohol or for misrepresenting their age in order
to obtain or purchase alcohol. Only the following are acceptable proof of
identification: Current Vehicle Operator's License, Current State Photo
Identification Card, and Current Passport.
   (p)   Loitering/Disorderly Conduct: No licensee hereunder shall allow any
loitering, gathering of unruly individuals or crowds or any unlawful or
dangerous behavior whether in the premises or in any parking lot or other
adjacent area serving the premises; and the licensee shall have primary
responsibility for hiring such security personnel and taking other appropriate
measures to observe compliance with this subsection. In the event a violation
of law has taken place, the licensee or his agents shall immediately notify the
police department.
   (q)   Sales Of Glass Bottles Of Beer Over Twelve Ounces: No licensee or
agent thereof shall sell at retail "beer", as defined in section
3-1  of this chapter, in glass bottles or glass containers having a liquid
content of more than twelve (12) ounces, for consumption off the licensed
premises, provided however, a licensee or agent of a business possessing a
class A liquor license whose primary sales of alcoholic beverages are eighty
five percent (85%) of their sales, may sell imported or micro brewed beer at
room temperature in glass bottles or glass containers having a liquid content
of more than twelve (12) ounces but less than thirty (30) ounces for
consumption off the licensed premises. This prohibition does not prevent a
holder of a Class D license, or other craft brewer, from offering for sale
growlers or crowlers for consumption off the licensed premise.
   (r)   Illinois Liquor Control Act: No licensee or agent thereof shall
violate any provision of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, or any provisions of
this Chapter or other City of Rock Island Ordinance. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-16.   Remedies For Violation:
   (a)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise
provided, shall be punishable by a minimum fine of two hundred dollars
($200.00). In the event any person is accused of a violation hereof and does
not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for
the violation, that person so accused may pay to the city at police
headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for and in
full satisfaction of said violation.
These fines are in addition to administrative provisions for suspension,
revocation or forfeiture of a license issued pursuant to this chapter; and
payment of such fine shall not constitute an admission of guilt or innocence
for purposes of such administrative proceedings for suspension, revocation or
forfeiture.
   (b)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any
license issued by them if they determine that the licensee has violated any of
the provisions of this chapter or of the Illinois Liquor Control Act. In the
case of a suspension, the suspension shall not exceed thirty (30) days. During
such period of suspension, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold, dispensed or
consumed on the licensed premises. In addition to or in lieu of suspension or
revocation, the Commissioner may levy a fine on the licensee for such
violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for each violation; each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. Not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in fines
may be imposed against any licensee during the period of his/her license for
violations under this Chapter.
If the Commissioner determines that a letter of reprimand is warranted or the
license shall be suspended or revoked, it shall issue a written order within
five (5) business days after the hearing, stating the reasons for the
determination, and shall cause a copy of such order to be served upon the
licensee within ten (10) days. In the event a fine is imposed, the order shall
specify the date by which the fine shall be paid. If the fine is not paid by
the specified date, the license shall be suspended for a stated period of time.
   (c)   Upon receipt of a complaint being made of a violation of the Illinois
Liquor Control Act or of this Chapter, the Commissioner shall set the
matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and
place of such hearing and of the particular charge. Notice as herein required
shall be by registered mail or by leaving a copy of the notice at the licensed
place of business at least three (3) days prior to the date set for hearing.
Such hearings shall be open to the public and written minutes of all
proceedings shall be maintained.
   (d)   Emergency Closings:
   (1)   In instances where the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to
believe that continued operation of a licensed establishment will immediately
threaten the welfare of the community, the Commissioner, or if the commissioner
is unavailable, the acting mayor may, upon issuance of a written order stating
the reason for such conclusion and without notice, order the licensed premises
closed for not more than seven (7) days during which time a hearing shall be
held. When a licensee is engaged in the conduct of another business or
businesses upon the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to
such other business or businesses.
   (2)   The chief of police may order, in his discretion, a licensed premise
to be closed without hearing:
      a.   For a period of twenty four (24) hours, if the premises constitute a
crime scene and such closing could prevent the loss or destruction of evidence
and facilitate a police investigation, or if the premises were the scene of a
violent disturbance involving injury or threat to citizens or the use of
firearms.
      b.   Such closing, and the reasons therefor, will be documented by the
chief of police.
   (e)   Licenses granted under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner for any violation of the provisions of
this chapter, or of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, including, but not limited
to, the following:
   (1)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony.
   (2)   Conviction of the licensee for any violation of the law relating to
the regulation of the sale of alcoholic liquor.
   (3)   Conviction of the licensee for any violation of the law relating to
the possession and/or sale of any controlled substance upon the licensed
premises.
   (4)   The willful making of any false or fraudulent statement by the
licensee in an application for any license described herein.
   (5)   All proceedings for the revocation of a license shall follow the
procedures described in subsection (c) of this section.
   (f)   Payment and collection of any tax or money owed to the City may be
enforced by action in any court of competent jurisdiction and failure to pay
may be the cause for the suspension of any liquor license until payment is
made, in addition to any other penalties in this chapter.
   (g)   Any violation of this chapter and/or of the Illinois Liquor Control
Act, by any licensee, manager, agent, officer, director or employee shall be
the sole responsibility of the licensee regardless of whether the unlawful act
or omission occurred without the licensee's knowledge. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-
2024)
Sec. 3-17. Hearing Procedures:
   (a)   Notice Of Hearing: Upon receipt of a complaint being made of a
violation of the Illinois Liquor Control Act or of this chapter, or a request
for review for the denial or refusal to renewal a liquor license, the
Commissioner shall set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the
licensee/applicant of the time and place of such hearing and of the particular
charge. Notice as herein required shall be by registered mail or by leaving a
copy of the notice at the licensed place of business at least three (3) days
prior to the date set for hearing. Such hearings shall be open to the public,
and written minutes of all proceedings shall be maintained.
   (b)   Witnesses: Witnesses shall be sworn; but in all respects, hearings
shall be informal, and the strict rules of evidence shall not apply.
   (c)   Record Of Proceedings: A complete record of all evidence, testimony
and comments before the Commissioner shall be taken by a certified court
reporter or certified shorthand reporter. If a Court Reporter is unavailable,
both parties may agree to proceed to hearing and rely upon a contemporaneous
audio or video recording of the hearing that shall be transcribed after the
fact by a certified court reporter.
   (d)   Review Of Proceedings: Review of the proceedings before the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall be limited to a review of the official record
of the proceedings. No new or additional evidence shall be admitted or
considered.
   (e)   Initial Cost: An hourly fee for the certified court or shorthand
reporter at attendance at the formal hearings before the local license control
commissioner shall be paid by the city.
   (f)   Costs Of Preparation, Transcription Of Record: All costs of preparing
and transcribing an official record on appeal to the State Liquor Control
Commission shall be borne by the Licensee or applicant requesting a review of
the official proceedings.
   (g)   Hearing Officer: The hearing shall be presided over by a Hearing
Officer. The Hearing Officer shall have the right to place witnesses under
oath, to rule on objections, and to conduct the evidentiary hearing in an
efficient manner. Notwithstanding the above, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner is the sole decision-maker in issuing a final decision. (Ord. 09-
2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-18. Abatement Of Place Used In Violation:
   (a)   Every parcel, building, or place whatsoever, wherein there shall be
conducted any unlawful distribution or sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon
or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed, or allowed any alcoholic
liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of, or in any other
manner used in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or a place
used for purposes of lewdness, assignation, or prostitution, or premises which
is detrimental to the peace and well-being of the neighborhood is declared to
be a public nuisance and shall be abated and may be enjoined as provided by the
laws of this state, and by this Code, for the abatement of public nuisances.
(Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Sec. 3-19. Amendments:
   (a)   This chapter may be amended; and all licenses issued hereunder are
issued subject to the amendments.
   (b)   If a licensee cannot, or does not choose to, meet any additional
requirements imposed by the amendment, he or she may surrender his or her
license to the city. (Ord. 09-2024, 2-12-2024)
Chapter 4
BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS 1 , 2
 
Notes
  See chapter 3, "Alcoholic Liquor"; chapter 6, "Fire Prevention And Protection";
  chapter 7, "Health Generally"; chapter 8, "Licenses And Business Regulations";
  chapter 11, "Planning And Development"; chapter 16, "Utilities"; appendix A,
1 "Zoning"; § 7-181 et seq., housing code; § 8-466 et seq., waterproofing of
  buildings; § 11-91 et seq., preservation of historic and architecturally
  significant property; and §§ 13-53, 13-54, houses and lots to be numbered, of
  this code.
2 65 ILCS 5/11-30-1 - 5/11-30-9.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 4-1. Building Codes Adopted 1 :
The International Building Code, 2015 edition, International Residential Code,
2015 edition, International Existing Building Code, 2015 edition, International
Energy Conservation Code, 2015 edition, and International Property Maintenance
Code, 2015 edition, which are freely viewable online at http://
publicecodes.citation.com/icod/index.htm, are hereby adopted by reference and
shall serve as the Building Code of the City subject to their amendments which
are made a part hereof by reference, which amendments are on file in the Office
of the City Clerk. (Ord. 088-2011, 11-21-2011; Ord. 047-2017, 11-20-2017)
 
Notes
1 See also sections 2-286 and 2-286.1 of this code.
Sec. 4-2. House Movers:
   (a)   License; Bond: No person shall move any building or other structure
along the streets, avenues or alleys of the City unless he shall have first
obtained a license as a house mover, under a penalty of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
Any person may obtain a license as a house mover upon the payment of a license
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per annum and the execution to the City of
a bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with at least two (2)
good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the City Clerk, conditioned
among other things that the person applying for such license will pay the City,
the owner or owners, any and all damages which may happen to any trees,
pavements, streets or sidewalks, or to any telegraph, telephone or electric
light wire within the City, whether the damage or injury shall be inflicted by
such person or his agent, employees or workmen. The mover shall cut no wires
but shall give twenty four (24) hours' notice to the owner of the same to
remove and adjust them, and shall pay such owner his reasonable expense
therefor, and conditioned also that the person will save harmless and indemnify
the City from all liability, judgments, costs and expenses which may in any way
accrue against the City in consequence of the granting of such license or any
permit, and will in all things comply with the ordinances of the City and all
permits granted to him.
   (b)   Permit: Whenever such application shall have been filed as aforesaid,
the chief building inspector shall have authority to issue a permit to any of
such persons applying for same to occupy such portions of the streets so paid
for, specifying in the permit all the privileges therein granted, with the
terms and conditions of the same; and the building inspector shall see that
they are fully and completely complied with. Any person licensed hereunder as a
house mover shall, in addition to all other licenses provided herein, pay to
the City the fee fixed by the Council for each house to be moved in accordance
with the provisions herein and for each garage, shed or other small structure
to be moved. (1963 Code art. 6-2; Ord., 2-25-1974)
Sec. 4-3. Plumbing Codes Adopted  2  3 :
The most recent edition of the Illinois Plumbing Code shall apply to the
installation, alteration, repair, relocation, addition, replacement, and
maintenance of plumbing systems regulated by the Illinois Plumbing Code. The
International Plumbing Code, 2015 edition, and the International Fuel Gas Code,
2015 edition, subject to their amendments which are made a part hereof by
reference, which amendments are on file in the Office of the City Clerk, and
which are freely viewable on line at http://publicecodes.citation.com/icod/
index.htm, shall apply to any and all plumbing and piping systems not regulated
by the Illinois Plumbing Code. In addition, any structure in which a building
drain is installed shall have at least one vent stack carried through the roof
and increased to a minimum size of four inches (4") at a point one foot (1')
below the roof line. (Ord. 047-2017, 11-20-2017)
 
Notes
2 225 ILCS 320/0.01 - 320/43.
3 See also section 2-287 of this Code.
Sec. 4-4. Mechanical Codes Adopted:
The International Mechanical Code, 2015 edition, and International Fuel Gas
Code, 2015 edition, which are freely viewable online at http://
publicecodes.citation.com/icod/index.htm, are hereby adopted by reference and
shall serve as the Mechanical Code of the City subject to their amendments
which are made a part hereof by reference, which amendments are on file in the
Office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 088-2011, 11-21-2011; Ord. 047-2017, 11-20-
2017)
Sec. 4-5.   Building Fees:
Building permit, inspection and administrative fees shall be established by
City Council and shall be known as the Building Fee Schedule. (Ord. 030-2019,
6-10-2019)
Sec. 4-6.   Building Fee Schedule:
   (a)   The value used to determine the cost of the building permit is the
total replacement value of all construction work for which the permit is
issued, as well as all finish work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing,
and heating, air conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing systems, and
contractor overhead and profit. Not included in the total value is land
acquisition cost, grading and excavation work, paving, exterior sidewalks, and
site work such as installation of city-required infrastructure. Note that
separate permits and fees are required for grading and excavation, electrical,
mechanical, plumbing, signs, etc. as set forth in the ordinance of the City of
Rock Island.
U.S. DOLLAR VALUATION PERMIT FEE PLAN REVIEW FEE
U.S. DOLLAR VALUATION PERMIT FEE                    PLAN REVIEW FEE
1 - 500               $27.50                        $90.00 if applicable
501 - 600             $30.80                        $90.00 if applicable
601 - 700             $34.10                        $90.00 if applicable
701 - 800             $37.40                        $90.00 if applicable
801 - 900             $40.70                        $90.00 if applicable
901 - 1,000           $44.00                        $90.00 if applicable
1,001 - 1,100         $47.30                        $90.00 if applicable
1,101 - 1,200         $50.60                        $90.00 if applicable
1,201 - 1,300         $53.90                        $90.00 if applicable
1,301 - 1,400         $57.20                        $90.00 if applicable
1,401 - 1,500         $60.50                        $90.00 if applicable
1,501 - 1,600         $63.80                        $90.00 if applicable
1,601 - 1,700         $67.10                        $90.00 if applicable
1,701 - 1,800         $70.40                        $90.00 if applicable
1,801 - 1,900         $73.70                        $90.00 if applicable
1,901 - 2,000         $77.00                        $90.00 if applicable
2,001 - 3,000         $92.15                        $90.00 if applicable
3,001 - 4,000         $107.30                       $90.00 if applicable
4,001 - 5,000         $122.45                       $90.00 if applicable
5,001 - 6,000         $137.60                       $90.00 if applicable
6,001 - 7,000         $152.75                       $90.00 if applicable
7,001 - 8,000         $167.90                       $90.00 if applicable
8,001 - 9,000         $183.05                       $90.00 if applicable
9,001 - 10,000        $198.20                       $90.00 if applicable
10,001 - 11,000       $213.35                       $90.00 if applicable
11,001 - 12,000       $228.50                       $90.00 if applicable
12,001 - 13,000       $243.65                       $90.00 if applicable
13,001 - 14,000       $258.80                       $90.00 if applicable
14,001 - 15,000       $273.95                       $90.00 if applicable
15,001 - 16,000       $289.10                       $90.00 if applicable
16,001 - 17,000       $304.25                       $90.00 if applicable
17,001 - 18,000       $319.40                       $90.00 if applicable
18,001 - 19,000       $334.55                       $90.00 if applicable
19,001 - 20,000       $349.70                       $90.00 if applicable
20,001 - 21,000       $364.85                       $90.00 if applicable
21,001 - 22,000       $380.00                       $90.00 if applicable
22,001 - 23,000       $395.15                       $90.00 if applicable
23,001 - 24,000       $410.30                       $90.00 if applicable
24,001 - 25,000       $425.45                       $90.00 if applicable
25,001 - 26,000       $436.35                       $109.09
26,001 - 27,000       $447.25                       $111.81
27,001 - 28,000       $458.15                       $114.54
28,001 - 29,000       $469.05                       $117.26
29,001 - 30,000       $479.95                       $119.99
30,001 - 31,000       $490.85                       $122.71
31,001 - 32,000       $501.75                       $125.44
32,001 - 33,000       $512.65                       $128.16
33,001 - 34,000       $523.55                       $130.89
34,001 - 35,000       $534.45                       $133.61
35,001 - 36,000       $545.35                       $136.34
36,001 - 37,000       $556.25                       $139.06
37,001 - 38,000       $567.15                       $141.79
38,001 - 39,000       $578.05                       $144.51
39,001 - 40,000       $588.95                       $147.24
40,001 - 41,000       $599.85                       $149.96
41,001 - 42,000       $610.75                       $152.69
42,001 - 43,000       $621.65                       $155.41
43,001 - 44,000       $632.55                       $158.14
44,001 - 45,000       $643.45                       $160.86
45,001 - 46,000       $654.35                       $163.59
46,001 - 47,000       $665.25                       $166.31
47,001 - 48,000       $676.15                       $169.04
48,001 - 49,000       $687.05                       $171.76
49,001 - 50,000       $697.95                       $174.49
50,001 - 51,000       $705.55                       $176.39
51,001 - 52,000       $713.15                       $178.29
52,001 - 53,000       $720.75                       $180.19
53,001 - 54,000       $728.35                       $182.09
54,001 - 55,000       $735.95                       $183.99
55,001 - 56,000       $743.55                       $185.89
56,001 - 57,000       $751.15                       $187.79
57,001 - 58,000       $758.75                       $189.69
58,001 - 59,000       $766.35                       $191.59
59,001 - 60,000       $773.95                       $193.49
60,001 - 61,000       $781.55                       $195.39
61,001 - 62,000       $789.15                       $197.29
62,001 - 63,000       $796.75                       $199.19
63,001 - 64,000       $804.35                       $201.09
64,001 - 65,000       $811.95                       $202.99
65,001 - 66,000       $819.55                       $204.89
66,001 - 67,000       $827.15                       $206.79
67,001 - 68,000       $834.75                       $208.69
68,001 - 69,000       $842.35                       $210.59
69,001 - 70,000       $849.95                       $212.49
70,001 - 71,000       $857.55                       $214.39
71,001 - 72,000       $865.15                       $216.29
72,001 - 73,000       $872.75                       $218.19
73,001 - 74,000       $880.35                       $220.09
74,001 - 75,000       $887.95                       $221.99
75,001 - 76,000       $895.55                       $223.89
76,001 - 77,000       $903.15                       $225.79
77,001 - 78,000       $910.75                       $227.69
78,001 - 79,000       $918.35                       $229.59
79,001 - 80,000       $925.95                       $231.49
80,001 - 81,000       $933.55                       $233.39
81,001 - 82,000       $941.15                       $235.29
82,001 - 83,000       $948.75                       $237.19
83,001 - 84,000       $956.35                       $239.09
84,001 - 85,000       $963.95                       $240.99
85,001 - 86,000       $971.55                       $242.89
86,001 - 87,000       $979.15                       $244.79
87,001 - 88,000       $986.75                       $246.69
88,001 - 89,000       $994.35                       $248.59
89,001 - 90,000       $1,001.95                     $250.49
90,001 - 91,000       $1,009.55                     $252.39
91,001 - 92,000       $1,017.15                     $254.29
92,001 - 93,000       $$1,024.75                    $256.19
93,001 - 94,000       $1032.35                      $258.09
94,001 - 95,000       $1039.95                      $259.99
95,001 - 96,000       $1,047.55                     $261.89
96,001 - 97,000       $1,055.15                     $263.79
97,001 - 98,000       $1,062.75                     $265.69
98,001 - 99,000       $1,070.35                     $267.59
99,001 - 100,000      $1,077.95                     $269.49
                      $1,077.95 plus $6.05 for each 25% of the Building Permit
100,001 - 500,000     additional $1,000 or fraction Fee
                      thereof
                      $3,497.95 plus $5.20 for each 25% of the Building Permit
500,001 - 1,000,000   additional $1,000 or fraction Fee
                      thereof
                      $6,097.95 plus $3.30 for each 25% of the Building Permit
1,000,001 and above   additional $1,000 or fraction Fee
                      thereof.
 
NOTE: Plan Review conducted by 3rd Party (outside consultant) will be the
actual cost of the plan review
   (b)   Other Inspections and Fees:
   (1)   Moving a building: $165.00.
   (2)   Moving a garage that is accessory to a one (1) or two (2) family
dwelling: $55.00.
   (3)   Demolition of a one (1) or two (2) family dwelling: $55.00.
   (4)   Demolition of a building that is not a one (1) or two (2) family
dwelling: $110.00 for the first story and $27.50 each additional story.
   (5)   Residential swimming pools: $27.50.
   (6)   Residential storage tanks: $55.00.
   (7)   Inspection requests outside of normal business hours: (two (2)-hour
minimum fee) 55.00/hour.
   (8)   Re-Inspection fees (after two (2) failed inspections for the same
item/trade): $55.00.
   (9)   Special Inspections (at the discretion of the Building Official):
$55.00/hour.
   (10)   Third Party Inspection (use of outside consultant): Actual costs.
(Ord. 030- 2019, 6-10-2019)
Sec. 4-7.   Plumbing and Piping Permit Fees:
   (a)   Minimum fee for any plumbing or piping permit: $30.00.
   (b)   Re-inspection fees (one (1) hour minimum): $55.00.
   (c)   Each fixture: $13.00. Stools, urinals, sinks, tubs, showers, water
heaters, floor drains, area drains, roof drains, catch basins, automatic ice
makers, automatic dishwashers, etc.
   (d)   Each connection: $25.00. To city or private water mains, sanitary
sewer mains, or storm water mains.
   (e)   Each sprinkler head, flow valve, and control valve: $2.20. In an
automatic fire protection sprinkler system.
   (f)   Each cross-connection-control device: $25.00.
   (g)   Fuel gas piping outlet: $7.50. Each appliance, stub out for future
appliance, regulator vent, etc.
   (h)   Utility turn on (reconnect services-gas pressure test): $50.00.
   (i)   Other inspections and fees:
   (1)   Inspections outside normal business hours (two (2)-hour minimum fee):
$55.00 per hour or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is
greatest. This cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly
wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved.
   (2)   Re-inspection fees (one (1)-hour minimum): $55.00 per hour or the
total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is greatest. This cost shall
include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of
the employees involved).
   (3)   Inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated (one (1)-hour
minimum): $55.00 per hour or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction,
whichever is greatest. This cost shall include supervision, overhead,
equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved.
Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions to plans
(one (1)-hour minimum): $55.00 or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction,
whichever is greatest. This cost shall include supervision, overhead,
equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved. Use of
outside consultants for plan review or inspections or both: Actual costs,
including administrative and overhead costs. (Ord. 030-2019, 6-10-2019)
Sec. 4-8.   Mechanical Permit Fees:
   (a)   Minimum fee for any mechanical permit: $30.00.
   (b)   Re-inspection fees (one (1) hour minimum): $55.00.
   (c)   Calculation of mechanical permits: $30 application fee + 1% of total
job valuation. Note: Valuation is based on all material and labor for which the
permit is issued. When the value of labor and material are in question,
valuation will be determined by the Building Official.
   (d)   Commercial structures: $30 application fee + 1% of total job valuation
up to $300,000.00. (Valuation at $300,001.00 and above - $30 application fee +
1/2% of total job valuation.)
   (e)   PSI test and inspection to reconnect gas (gas pressure): $50.00.
   (f)   Other inspections and fees:
   (1)   Inspections outside normal business hours (two (2)-hour minimum fee):
$55.00 per hour or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is
greatest. The cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly
wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved.
   (2)   Re-inspection fees (1-hour minimum): $55.00 per hour or the total
hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever in greatest. This cost shall include
supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the
employees involved.
   (3)   Inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated (one (1)-hour
minimum): $55.00 per hour or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction,
whichever is greatest. This cost shall include supervision, overhead,
equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved.
   (4)   Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions to
plans (one (1)-hour minimum): $55.00 or the total hourly cost to the
jurisdiction, whichever is greatest. This cost shall include supervision,
overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the employees
involved.
   (5)   Use of outside consultants for plan review or inspections or both:
Actual costs, including administrative and overhead costs. (Ord. 030-2019, 6-
10-2019)
Sec. 4-9.   Electrical Permit Fees:
   (a)   Minimum fee for any electrical permit: $30.00.
   (b)   Re-inspection fees (one (1) hour minimum): $55.00.
   (c)   New construction: $30 application fee + 1% of total job valuation. (No
additional fees for entrance service or temporary service).
   (d)   Commercial structures: $30 application fee + 1% of total job valuation
up to $300,000.00. (Valuation at $300,001.00 and above - $30 application fee +
1/2% of total job valuation.)
   (e)   Rewiring: $30 application fee + 1% of total job valuation. (No
additional fee for new/upgraded entrance service if part of project.)
   (f)   Additions to existing structures: $30 application fee + 1% of total
job valuation. (Includes wiring of previously unwired/minimally wired
basements, multi-season porches, attached garages, etc.)
Note: Valuation is based on all material and labor for which the permit is
issued. When the value of labor and material are in question, valuation will be
determined by the Building Official.
   (g)   Replace/upgrade entrance service: $50.00.
   (h)   Temporary service: $35.00.
   (i)   Electrical utility turn on: $50.00 meter set for services that are
abandoned.
   (j)   Low voltage wiring: $35.00 minimum fee required unless this work is
done in conjunction with other electrical work done under permit by a
registered electrical contractor.
   (k)   Other inspections and fees:
      (1)   Inspections outside normal business hours (two (2)-hour minimum
fee): $55.00 per hour or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever
is greatest. The cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly
wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved.
      (2)   Re-inspection fees (one (1)-hour minimum): $55.00 per hour or the
total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever in greatest. This cost shall
include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of
the employees involved.
      (3)   Inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated (one (1)-
hour minimum): $55.00 per hour or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction,
whichever is greatest. This cost shall include supervision, overhead,
equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved.
      (4)   Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions
to plans (one (1)-hour minimum): $55.00 or the total hourly cost to the
jurisdiction, whichever is greatest. This cost shall include supervision,
overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the employees
involved.
      (5)   Use of outside consultants for plan review or inspections or both:
Actual costs, including administrative and overhead costs. (Ord. 030-2019, 6-
10-2019)
Sec. 4-10.   Fire Safety Plan Review Fees:
   (a)   Fire Sprinkler Residential: $50.00.
   (b)   Fire Sprinkler Commercial: $100.00.
   (c)   Fire Alarm System: $100.00.
   (d)   Type I Commercial Kitchen Hood: $50.00.
   (e)   Miscellaneous: $25.00/hour (minimum one (1)-hour). (Ord. 030-2019, 6-
10-2019)
Sec. 4-11.   Sign Permit Fees:
Total Valuation of Sign Permit Fee
Total Valuation of Sign Permit Fee
$1.00 - $1,000.00       $35.00
$1,001.00 - $2,000.00   $51.50
$2,001.00 - $3,000.00   $68.00
$3,000.00 - $4,000.00   $84.50
$4,001.00 - $5,000.00   $101.00
$5,001.00 - $6,000.00   $117.50
$6,001.00 - $7,000.00   $134.00
$7,001.00 - $8,000.00   $150.50
$8,001.00 - $9,000.00   $167.00
$9,001.00 - $10,000.00  $183.50
Over $10,000.00         $183.50 plus $55.00 for each additional $10,000.00 or
                        fraction thereof.
 
(Ord. 030-2019, 6-10-2019)
Sec. 4-12.   Stop Work Orders:
   Continuing work after a Stop Work Order has been issued for working without
a permit is subject to double the permit fee and a fine of $150.00. If the
required permits are obtained within forty-eight (48)-hours of issuance of the
stop work order the double fee and fine may be waived. (Ord. 030-2019, 6- 10-
2019)
Sec. 4-13.   Miscellaneous Fees:
   Construction document printing from PDF format will be charged the following
fee:
   (a)   Size 17" x 22": $4.00 per sheet.
   (b)   Size 22" x 34": $6.00 per sheet.
   (c)   Size 34" x 44": $8.00 per sheet. (Ord. 030-2019, 6-10-2019)
Sec. 4-14.   Building Demolition Requirements:
   It is the policy of the City that buildings shall be demolished in a manner
that allows for reasonable future redevelopment of the resulting site. To that
end, the following shall be required for all demolitions undertaken within the
City.
   (a)   For one- and two-unit residential structures as well as for any
structure residential or otherwise in a residential zoning district, the
entirety of building elements below grade shall be removed from the site as
part of the demolition. This shall include but not be limited to foundation
walls, footings, basement floors, and any other related structures or
materials. Following an inspection by the City confirming that such structures
and materials have been removed, the site shall be backfilled with clean-fill
material. Aggregate shall measure no more than four inches (4") in diameter.
The site shall be compacted sufficiently to prevent future subsistence with one
foot (1') of topsoil covering the excavation area. It shall also be graded to
match the surrounding site topography and seeded with turf grass.
   (b)   For all other structures not included above, all structures and
materials four feet (4') below grade shall be removed from the site as part of
the demolition. If a basement floor is present, any basement floor shall either
be removed in its entirety or broken up into sections not greater than one
square yard to allow for proper groundwater drainage. Following an inspection
by the City confirming that such structures and materials have been removed up
to four feet (4') below grade, the site shall be backfilled with clean fill
material. Aggregate shall measure no more than four inches (4") in diameter.
The site shall be compacted sufficiently to prevent future subsistence with one
foot (1') of topsoil covering the excavation area. It shall also be graded to
match the surrounding site topography and seeded with turf grass. If any part
of the foundation is going to be left four feet (4') below ground level, a site
plan that displays the building's footprint needs to be submitted.
   (c)   The utility provider shall remove gas and electric services. Water
service and sewer lines shall be disconnected at the City main. (Ord. 048-2023,
9-11-2023)
Secs. 4-15 – 4-20. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS 6
 
Notes
6 65 ILCS 5/11-33-1, 5/11-37-1 et seq.
Sec. 4-21. Penalty:
Any person who shall fail or refuse to comply with the provisions in this
article shall be deemed guilty of an offense punishable upon conviction by a
fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each offense; and in case of a continuing failure or refusal, each day's
continuance thereof shall be a separate and distinct offense. (Ord., 1-13-1969;
Ord., 11-27-1978)
Sec. 4-22. Definitions:
As used in this article:
   Electrical Contractor: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of installing or altering, by contract, electrical equipment for the
utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat or power, not including
radio apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sounds and signals, and
not including apparatus, conductors and other equipment installed for or by
public utilities, including common carriers, which are under the jurisdiction
of the Illinois Commerce Commission, for use in their operation as public
utilities; nor shall the term "electrical contractor" include employees of such
contractor to do or supervise such work.
   Electrical Equipment: Conductors and other equipment installed for the
utilization of electricity for light, heat or power. It does not include radio
apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sounds and signals; and it
does not include apparatus, conductors or other equipment installed for or by
public utilities, including common carriers, which are under the jurisdiction
of the Illinois Commerce Commission, for use in their operation as public
utilities. (Ord., 1-13-1969; Ord., 11-27-1978)
Sec. 4-23. Electrical Code Adopted:
The National Fire Protection Association, National Electrical Code, 2017
edition, is hereby adopted by reference and shall serve as the Electrical Code
of the City subject to the amendments which are made a part hereof by
reference, which amendments are on file in the Office of the City Clerk. (Ord.
088-2011, 11-21-2011; Ord. 047-2017, 11-20-2017)
Sec. 4-24. Electrical Contractors Generally:
   (a)   Registration: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of "electrical contractor", as defined in this article, without being
registered as an electrical contractor, in the manner hereinafter set forth;
however, if such person is already registered for the current year in another
city or village within the State, such electrical contractor shall not be
required to be registered or to pay a registration fee for such year in this
City.
   (b)   Application: Any person desiring to engage in the business of
electrical contractor shall apply for registration to the electrical inspector.
Upon the filing of such application in proper form the applicant shall,
following reasonable advance notice, present himself for examination before the
Electrical Commission at a time and place set by it. The commission shall
examine any such applicant as to his practical knowledge of the installation
and alteration of electrical equipment as set forth in this article, and his
knowledge of the rules and regulations for the installation of electrical
wiring devices and equipment as set forth in the Statutes of the State and in
the ordinances of the City, including those filed hereunder and incorporated
hereby. Such examination shall be in whole or in part in writing and shall be
of a practical character as determined by the commission, but sufficiently
strict to thoroughly test the experience and qualifications of the applicant.
Upon the filing of such application in proper form, the passing of an
examination and the payment of the registration fee fixed herein, the
electrical inspector (or other City official) shall register the applicant as
an electrical contractor and shall issue to the applicant a certificate of
registration which will authorize the applicant to engage in such business for
the year in which it is issued from May 1 to April 30.
   (c)   License Fee: The fee for registration as an electrical contractor
shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year, which sum shall be paid by the
applicant to the City in advance upon filing the application. (Ord., 1-13-1969;
Ord., 11-1978; Ord. 87-34, 4-6-1987; Ord. 87-52, 5-18-1987; Ord. 89-16, 4-3-
1989)
Sec. 4-25. Permit:
   (a)   Required: All persons, before beginning any installation, alteration
or change of electrical wiring or equipment in the City, shall obtain a permit
for such work. Permits for the installation, alteration and use of electrical
equipment shall be issued upon receipt of an application therefor, made out on
a printed form to be furnished by the office of the electrical inspector.
Permit cards will be posted in plain view, inside of the building, near the
entrance switch or inside of the service switch when installed.
   (b)   Application: The application for each such permit shall contain the
name of the owner or user of the electrical equipment to be installed, altered
or changed, and the location of such work by correct address, street and
number, and also the name and address of the person making the installation.
   (c)   Duration; Funds: Permits shall be valid for six (6) months from the
date of issue, and no refunds shall be made on any such permits. The monies
received for such permits shall be turned over to the City Clerk, together with
the list of all qualified contractors for whom such permits are issued. (Ord.,
1-13-1969; Ord., 3-15-1976; Ord., 5-17-1976; Ord., 11-27-1978; Ord., 6-29-1981;
Ord. 87-33, 4-6-1987; Ord. 94-79, 9-19-1994; Ord. 010-2009, § 7, 2-2-2009)
Sec. 4-26. Reserved:
Sec. 4-27. Radio Antennas On Water Towers:
   (a)   Installations of radio antennas by government bodies and public
utility companies shall be allowed on City water towers located at 37th Street
and 14th Avenue and 14th Street and 42nd Avenue in the City.
   (b)   Any such utility company wishing to make an installation as aforesaid
shall first make application and receive approval from the City Council. Any
such applicant receiving approval shall agree to pay to the City one hundred
dollars ($100.00) a year, covering rent therefor, and shall also provide
adequate liability insurance coverage holding the City harmless from any claims
as a result of the installation, and shall comply with any further requirements
requested by the City Council. (Ord., 5-27-1963; Ord., 8-28-1967)
Secs. 4-28-4-45. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. SIGNS  1
 
Notes
  Prior ordinance history: 1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. I, § 17; Ord., § 1, 5-6-1968;
1 Ord. 83-63, §§ 1-13, 2-20-1984; Ord. 87-62, §§ 1 - 12, 7-13-1987; Ord. 92-28, §§
  1-7, 2-17-1992; Ord. 92-88, §§ 1-3, 5-18-1992; Ord. 94-05, §§ 1,2, 1-10-1994;
  Ord. 06-2000, §§ 1-5, 1-24-2000.
Sec. 4-46. Purpose:
   The purpose of this article is to set out regulations for the construction,
installation, and maintenance of signs while preserving the right of free
speech and expression. (Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-47. Scope:
   This article's regulations shall provide a balanced and fair legal framework
for design, construction, and placement of signs that:
   (1)   Promotes the safety of persons and property by ensuring that signs do
not create a hazard by:
      a.   Collapsing, catching fire, or otherwise decaying;
      b.   Confusing or distracting motorists; or
      c.   Impairing drivers' ability to see pedestrians, obstacles or other
vehicles, or to read traffic signs; and
   (2)   Promotes the efficient communication of messages, and ensures that
persons exposed to signs:
      a.   Are not overwhelmed by the number of messages presented; and
      b.   Are able to exercise freedom of choice to observe or ignore said
messages according to the observer's purpose; and
   (3)   Protects the public welfare and enhances the appearance and economic
value of the landscape by protecting
      scenic views and avoiding sign clutter that can compromise the character,
quality, and viability of commercial corridors;
   (4)   Ensures that signs are compatible with their surroundings, and
prevents the construction of signs that are a nuisance to occupants of adjacent
and contiguous property due to brightness, reflectivity, bulk, or height;
   (5)   Promotes the use of signs that are aesthetically pleasing, of
appropriate scale, and integrated with the built environment, in order to meet
the objectives related to the quality and character of development set forth in
the city's Comprehensive Plan;
   (6)   Enhances property values and business opportunities;
   (7)   Assists in wayfinding; and
   (8)   Provides fair and consistent permitting and enforcement. (Ord. 063-
2019, 11-11-2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-48. Authority:
   The City Council finds that:
   (1)   The city has the authority to regulate signs under the United States
Constitution, the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and Division 13 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq., or its successor statute;
   (2)   This article advances important and substantial governmental
interests;
   (3)   The regulations set out in this article are unrelated to the
suppression of constitutionally-protected free expression and do not involve
the content of protected messages which may be displayed on signs, nor do they
involve the viewpoint of individual speakers;
   (4)   The incidental restriction on the freedom of speech is no greater than
is essential to the furtherance of the interests protected by this article; and
   (5)   Certain types of speech are not protected by the First Amendment due
to the harm that they cause to individuals or the community, and speech that is
harmful to minors may be prohibited in places that are accessible to minors.
(Ord. 063-2019, 11-11- 2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-49. General Findings of Fact:
   The City Council finds that:
   (1)   The ability to display signs of reasonable size and dimensions is
vital to the health and sustainability of many businesses, and the display of
signs with noncommercial messages is a traditional component of the freedom of
speech, but the constitutional guarantee of free speech may be limited by
appropriate and constrained regulation that is unrelated to the expression
itself;
   (2)   The city has an important and substantial interest in preventing sign
clutter (which is the proliferation of signs of increasing size and dimensions
as a result of competition among property owners for the attention of passing
motorists), because sign clutter degrades the character of the community, makes
the community a less attractive place for commerce and private investment, and
dilutes or obscures messages displayed along the city's streets by creating
visual confusion and aesthetic blight;
   (3)   Sign clutter can be prevented by regulations that balance the
legitimate needs of individual property owners to convey their commercial and
noncommercial messages against the comparable needs of adjacent and nearby
property owners and the interest of the community as a whole in providing for a
high-quality community character;
   (4)   Temporary signs that are not constructed of weather-resistant
materials are often damaged or destroyed by wind, rain, and sun, and after such
damage or destruction, degrade the aesthetics of the city's streets if they are
not removed;
   (5)   The city has an important and substantial interest in keeping its
rights-of-way clear of obstructions and litter;
   (6)   The city has an important and substantial interest in protecting the
health of its tree canopy, which contributes to the character and value of the
community; and
   (7)   The uncontrolled use of off-premises outdoor advertising signs and
their location, density, size, shape, motion, illumination and demand for
attention can be injurious to the purposes of this article, and destructive to
community character and property values, and that, as such, restrictions on the
display of off-premises commercial messages are necessary and desirable. (Ord.
063-2019, 11-11-2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-50. Application of this Article:
   (a) Generally: All construction, relocation, enlargement, alteration, and
modification of signs within the city shall conform to the requirements of this
article, all state and federal regulations concerning signs and advertising,
and applicable building codes.
   (b)   Signs Requiring a Permit: A sign permit shall be required for all
signs exceeding six (6) square feet in area and any sign which contains
mechanical or electrical components unless otherwise exempted in this article.
In addition, a sign permit shall be required at any time the sign area is
increased, if the increase is allowable within the zoning district in which the
sign is located. This subsection shall not be interpreted so as to grant
permission for prohibited signs with sign areas less than six (6) square feet.
   (c)   Exempt Signs: The following signs never require a sign permit, but may
require a building permit or other related permit (if subject to building or
electrical codes). Temporary signs that do not require permits shall still
comply with the standards of the applicable standards of this article.
      (1)   Official and Legal Notice:   (a)   Generally: All construction,
relocation, enlargement, alteration, and modification of signs within the city
shall conform to the requirements of this article, all state and federal
regulations concerning signs and advertising, and applicable building codes.
   (b)   Signs Requiring A Permit: A sign permit shall be required for all
signs exceeding six (6) square feet in area and any sign which contains
mechanical or electrical components unless otherwise exempted in this article.
In addition, a sign permit shall be required at any time the sign area is
increased, if the increase is allowable within the zoning district in which the
sign is located. This subsection shall not be interpreted so as to grant
permission for prohibited signs with sign areas less than six (6) square feet.
   (c)   Exempt Signs: The following signs never require a sign permit, but may
require a building permit or other related permit (if subject to building or
electrical codes). Temporary signs that do not require permits shall still
comply with the standards of the applicable standards of this article.
   (1)   Official And Legal Notice: Official and legal notice signs that are
issued by any court, public body, person, or officer in performance of a public
duty, or in giving any legal notice;
   (2)   Flags: Flags that are not larger than thirty (30) square feet in area
that are affixed to permanent flagpoles or flagpoles that are mounted to
buildings (either temporary or permanent);
   (3)   Decorative Signs: Clearly incidental, customary, and commonly
associated with a holiday, provided that such signs shall be displayed for a
period of not more than sixty (60) consecutive days nor more than sixty (60)
total days in any one (1) year;
   (4)   Carried Signs: Signs that are being carried by people (however, such
signs are not exempt if they are set down or propped on objects);
   (5)   Bumper Stickers: Bumper stickers on vehicles;
   (6)   Interior Signs: Signs that are not visible from residential lots,
abutting property or public rights of way except where otherwise noted in this
article;
   (7)   Traffic Control Signs: Traffic control signs and other signs related
to public safety that the city or another jurisdiction installs or requires a
developer to install; and
   (8)   Holiday Decorations: Holiday decorations that are displayed for not
more than two (2) months per year.
   (9)   Traffic or other municipal signs such as legal notices, railroad
crossings, danger and other emergency signs as may be approved by the City
Council.
   (10)   Community special event signs approved by the City Council.
   (11)   Signs used exclusively for traffic direction, on private streets or
in parking areas, not exceeding ten (10) square feet in area and not
illuminated. Such signs shall be placed so as not to cause traffic or
pedestrian hazards. (Ord. 063-2019, 11-11- 2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-51. Exemption for Addressing:
   The City Council finds that the posting of the addresses of buildings in
locations that are visible from the street is necessary for the effective
delivery of public safety services. The efficient and timely delivery of
emergency services is a compelling governmental interest. Accordingly, the city
requires that street addresses shall be posted as follows:
   (1)   Nonresidential And Mixed-Use Districts: In nonresidential districts,
street addresses shall be posted at all primary building entrances and on
detached signage if the address on the building is not visible from the street.
   (2)   Residential Districts: In residential districts, street addresses
shall be posted:
      a.   On the facade of the building that faces the street from which the
address is taken; and
      b.   On the mailbox or mailbox support, if the mailbox is detached from
the building.
      c.   Exclusion From Sign Area Calculation: Because address signs are
required, numbers and letters used for addressing are not included in the
calculation of sign area if they are not more than fourteen inches (14") in
height. (Ord. 063-2019, 11-11- 2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-52. Effective Date:
   This article shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval, as required by law. (Ord. 063-2019, 11-11- 2019; amd. Ord. 20-
2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-53. Signs Permitted Before Effective Date:
If a permit for a sign has been issued in accordance with all city ordinances
in effect prior to the effective date of this article, and provided that
construction is begun within six (6) months of the effective date of this
article and diligently pursued to completion, said sign may be completed in
accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which the permit has been
issued, subject thereafter, if applicable, to the provisions of this Code
regarding nonconforming signs. (Ord. 063-2019, 11-11- 2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024,
4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-54. Relationship to Other Regulations:
   These regulations recognize other regulations pertaining to signage. Where
any provision of this article covers the same subject matter as other
regulations, the more restrictive regulation shall apply. (Ord. 063- 2019, 11-
11-2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-55. Measurements:
   (a)   Generally: The regulations of this article shall be applied using the
measurements set out in this section.
   (b)   Sign Clearance: Sign clearance is the distance between the bottom of a
sign face or structural element that is not affixed to the ground and the
nearest point on the surface under it. See Figure A, Measurement of Sign
Clearance.
   (c)   Sign Height: For detached signs (temporary and permanent), sign height
is:
   (1)   Where the natural grade of the ground where the sign is to be located
is lower than the street centerline, the vertical distance to the top of the
sign face or sign structure, whichever is higher, measured from the elevation
of the centerline of the adjacent street. See Figure B, Measurement of Sign
Height, Sign Base Lower than Street Centerline.
Figure A
Measurement of Sign Clearance
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3738.png]
   (2)    Where the natural grade of the ground where the sign is to be located
is higher than the street centerline, the vertical distance to the top of the
sign face or sign structure, whichever is higher, measured from the elevation
of the average grade around the base of the sign.
Figure B
Measurement of Sign Height, Sign Base Lower than Street Centerline
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3740.png]
   (3)   Items Of Information: An item of information is a word, logo,
abbreviation, symbol, geometric shape, image, or number with ten (10) or fewer
digits (punctuation of numbers does not increase the number of items of
information). See Figure C, Items of Information.
Figure C
Items of Information
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3742.png]
   This sign has seven (7) items of information: four (4) words, a ten (10)
digit phone number (with punctuation), and two (2) symbols. (Ord. 063-2019, 11-
11- 2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-56. Calculations:
   (a)   Sign Area: Sign area is calculated as the area within a continuous
perimeter with up to eight (8) straight sides that encloses the limits of text
and graphics of a sign, together with any
frame or other material or color forming an integral part of the display or
used to differentiate the sign's message from the background against which it
is placed. The area excludes the structure upon which the sign is placed
(unless the structure is an integral part of the display or used to
differentiate it), but includes any open space contained within the outer
limits of the display face of a sign, or between any component, panel, strip,
or figure of any kind composing the display face, whether this open space is
enclosed by a frame or border or not. See Figure D, Sign Area, Generally.
Figure D
Sign Area, Generally
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3744.png]
   The sign area of the illustrative monument sign below is calculated as the
area within the smallest eight (8) sided polygon that encloses all of the text
and graphics and framing of the message and graphics of the sign.
   The sign area of the illustrative collection of wall signs below is measured
as the area within the smallest eight (8) sided polygon that encloses all of
the text and graphics and framing that differentiates them from the wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3748.png]
 
   (b)    Doubl e-Face d Signs: For project ing, suspen ded, or other double -
faced signs only one (1) displa y face is measu red if the sign faces are
parallel or form an interior angle of less than forty-five (45) degrees,
provided that the signs are mounted on the same structure. If the faces are of
unequal area, then sign area is equal to the area of the larger face. Both
display faces are measured if the interior angle is greater than forty-five
(45) degrees or the sign faces are mounted on different structures.
Figure E
Double-Faced Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3746.png]
   (c)   Signable Area: Signable area is calculated as follows:
   (1)   Wall Signs: A two (2) dimensional area on the facade of a building
that describes the largest square, rectangle, or parallelogram which is free of
architectural details.
   (2)   Window Signs: The area of glass within a window frame. Window area is
counted as a continuous surface until divided by an architectural or structural
element. Mullions are not considered an element that divides window area.
   (3)   Freestanding Signs: The area of the face of the sign which is designed
to be used for text and graphics (the signable area does not include the sign's
supporting frame or structure, if any, provided that such frame or structure is
not designed to display text or graphics). (Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; amd.
Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-57.   Definitions:
   As used in this article unless the context otherwise indicates the following
terms shall be defined as indicated:
   Alter: To change the size, shape or outline, or type of sign or to change
the electrical lighting, except for the replacement of lamps not brighter than
the original or the replacement of a surface panel.
   Attach: To stick, tack, nail or otherwise affix a sign to any object; to
paint, stencil, write, or otherwise mark on an object.
   Awning: An architectural projection that provides weather protection,
identity and decoration, and is supported by the building to which it is
attached. It is composed of a lightweight rigid or retractable skeleton
structure over which a thin cover is attached which may be of fabric or canvas,
and may be illuminated.
   Banner: A sign composed of cloth, flexible plastic or vinyl, paper,
cardboard, canvas or other light fabric.
   Building: A structure which has a roof supported by columns, wall or air for
the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animal or chattel.
   Canopy: A roof-like structure which shelters a use such as, but not
restricted to, a gasoline pump island, and is supported by either one (1) or
more columns or by the building to which it is accessory to and is open on two
(2) or more sides.
   Chief Building Official: The Chief Building Official for the City or their
designee.
   Dilapidated Or Deteriorated Condition: Any sign:
   (1)   Where elements of the surface or background can be seen as viewed from
the normal viewing distance (intended viewing distance), to have portions of
      the finished material or paint flaked, broken off, or missing, or
otherwise not in harmony with the rest of the surface; or
   (2)   Where the structural support or frame or sign panels are visibly bent,
broken, dented, or torn as to constitute an unsightly, hazardous or harmful
condition; or
   (3)   Where the sign, or its elements, are twisted or leaning or at angles
other than those at which it was originally erected (such as may result from
being blown or the failure of a structural support); or
   (4)   Where the message or wording can no longer be clearly read by a person
under normal viewing conditions; or
   (5)   Where the sign or its elements are not in compliance with the
regulations of the National Electrical Code and/or the International Building
Code currently adopted by the city.
   Erect: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix signs.
   Facing: The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the message
is displayed or illustrated on the sign.
   Flag: A piece of cloth, canvas, or other light fabric, usually rectangular
in shape, containing a distinctive design, logo or message which is used as a
symbol or to signal or attract attention.
   Incidental: Information on a sign that is incidental to the operation of the
business such as but not limited to hours of operation, accepted credit cards
and parking information.
   Incombustible Material: Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) and will
not continue to burn or glow at that temperature.
   Logo: Any design or insignia of a company or product which is commonly used
in advertising to identify that company or product.
   Pennant: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
   Person: Any human being, firm, legal entity, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   Premises: A lot or unplatted tract, or a combination of contiguous lots and/
or unplatted tracts of land where the lot, tract, or combination of lots and/or
tracts is under single ownership and is reflected in the plat record of the
city.
   Public Right-Of-Way: A dedicated road or street including the easement for
that road or street.
   Roof: Any exterior surface of a structure that has a slope of less than
seventy (70) degrees and shall also include the top most portion of any
structure.
   Searchlight: An apparatus capable of projecting a beam or beams of light in
excess of one million (1,000,000) peak candlepower.
   Setback: The minimum required distance the sign must be located from a
right-of-way or a property line. The distance shall be measured from the right-
of-way or property line to the closest point of the sign from the ground
upward.
   Sight Visibility Triangle: Where one (1) street intersects with another, the
triangular area formed by extending two (2) curb lines a distance of twenty-
five feet (25') from their point of intersection, and connecting these points
with an imaginary line, thereby making a triangle. If there are no curbs
existing, the triangular area shall be formed by extending the property lines a
distance of twenty-five feet (25') from their point of intersection and
connecting these points with
an imaginary line thereby making a triangle. Where a street intersects with an
alley or driveway, the "sight visibility triangle" is the triangular area
formed by measuring eight feet (8') to a point along the property lines and
adjoining said points to form the hypotenuse of the triangle. This shall only
apply to monument freestanding signs.
   Sign: A name, identification, description, display or illumination that is
affixed to, painted, or represented directly or indirectly, upon a building,
structure, or piece of land which advertises or directs attention to an object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization, or a business.
      Attached Projecting Sign: Any sign that is attached to a building or
other structure and extends beyond the surface of that portion of the building
or structure to which it is attached.
      Attached Wall Sign: All flat signs of solid face construction that are
placed against a building or other structure and attached to the exterior
front, rear, or side wall of any building, or other structure.
      Attention-Getting Inflatable Device: A temporary sign that is a cold air
inflated object made of flexible fabric, resting on the ground or structure,
restrained, attached or held in place, and equipped with a portable blower
motor that provides a constant flow of air into the device. This definition
includes balloon signs.
      Electronic Message Sign: A type of animated sign capable of displaying
words, symbols, figures or images that can be electronically or mechanically
changed by remote or automatic means. Signs which employ light-emitting doped
(LED) technology are included as a form of electronic message display sign, but
do not include video signs, tri-vision signs, and animated signs, which are
prohibited.
      Elevated Pole Sign: A freestanding sign that is erected or affixed to one
(1) or more poles or posts, raised more than twelve feet (12') from grade and
that does not meet the requirements or location regulations of a monument sign.
      Feather Sign: A freestanding temporary sign that is constructed of a
single pole that curves toward its upper end and has a feather-shaped material
stretched along the length of the pole displaying a design or message.
      Freestanding Sign: As regulated by this article, any sign supported by
uprights or braces placed into the ground and not attached to any building or
structure other than said braces or uprights. This definition does not include
any sign, whether permanent or temporary, that is attached to a fence.
      Illuminated Sign: Any sign that has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the
sign proper.
      Indirectly Illuminated Sign: Any illuminated, non-flashing sign whose
illumination is derived from an external, artificial lighting source.
      LED Storefront Lights: Any light hung or placed within or around a window
or on the façade of a building typically consisting of strips or strings of
light with no cutoff angle that directs light towards adjoining property and
right-of-way. This definition does not include LED lights that are part of
wall, roof, or freestanding luminaire with a cutoff angle meeting the
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
      Marquee Sign: Any sign attached to, or an integral part of, a hood or
canopy of permanent construction projecting from the wall of a building over
the entrance to that
   building. For the purposes of this article, marquee signs shall be
considered as attached signs when determining the allowable square foot area
and total square foot area of all permitted signs. No marquee sign shall extend
more than two feet (2') above the marquee structure.
      Monument Sign: A freestanding sign that in which the entire bottom of the
sign body or the base of the sign structure is erected directly upon the
existing or artificially created grade or that is raised no more than twelve
feet (12') from the existing or artificially grade to the bottom of the sign
and has a horizontal dimension equal to or greater than its vertical dimension.
      Obsolete Sign: Any on premises sign or facing that no longer advertises a
bona fide business conducted or product sold on the premises.
      On Premises Sign: Any sign identifying the occupant of the property upon
which it is located and/or advertising goods or services available thereon.
      Outdoor Advertising Sign (Billboard Or Poster Panel): A primarily
changeable copy sign that directs attention to a business, product, service, or
activity not necessarily intended to be sold or offered upon the premises where
such sign is located
      Portable Sign: Any sign designed and manufactured, or constructed to be
self-supporting, self-contained, portable, and not permanently attached to the
ground or other permanent structure, including signs designed to be
transported, but not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of
wheels; signs converted to "A" or "T" frames; menu and sandwich board signs;
balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to,
or painted on, vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless
said vehicle is used in the normal day to day operations of the business.
      Roof Sign: As regulated by this article, any sign erected, constructed
and maintained wholly upon or over the roof of any building with the principal
means of support on the roof structure.
      Sidewalk Sign: A type of temporary portable sign that is meant to be set
out on the sidewalk in front of a corresponding building space. These signs
include A-frame (sandwich board) signs, signs that are suspended from the top
member of an A-frame, signs with weighted bases, and comparable signs. 
Figure F
Sidewalk Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3752.png]
 
      Temporary Sign: Any sign, irrespective of the type of sign or the
materials used for its construction and designed or intended to be displayed
for limited periods of time, which is restricted by the terms of this article
as to the number and length of time it may be erected, maintained, used or
displayed.
      Vehicle Sign: A sign attached to or painted on a vehicle parked and
visible from the public right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used for
transporting people or materials in the normal operations of the business and
it is properly parking in a designated parking space. Signs attached to
trailers or inoperable vehicles are presumed to be vehicle signs if they are
parked in plain view from the right-of-way. Bumper stickers are not vehicle
signs.
Vehicle Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3754.png]
 
   In the illustration above, the sign on the pickup truck is not a "vehicle
sign," because the pickup truck is inoperable and properly parked in a parking
space. The sign on the delivery truck is a "vehicle sign" because the truck is
parked across parking spaces adjacent to the right-of-way, and the intent to
use the position of the truck to display the sign is presumed.
      Window Sign: Any sign, whether temporary or permanent, inside or outside,
attached to, affixed to, leaning against, or within one foot (1') of a window
and visible from the outside of a building, or structure. Window signs include
neon or LED signs. (Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; amd. Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-58. License Required:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the sign business within
the City of Rock Island without first having obtained a license therefor, as
herein required; provided, however, that no license issued hereunder shall be
construed so as to permit the use of any thing or structure, natural or
artificial, located in any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place
for advertising purposes. Application for said license shall be made in writing
to the inspection division. All registration fees, bonding, insurance,
licensing and other construction related requirements shall be consistent with
the International Building Code. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-2019,
11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-59. Permits Required:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, structurally alter, or
relocate, within the City of Rock Island, any "sign" as defined in this
article, except temporary signs, without first obtaining an erection permit
from the inspection division and
making payment of the fee as required by this section. All signs that have
electrical provisions shall, in addition, be subject to the provisions of the
electrical code and the permit fees required thereunder.
   (1)   Every applicant, before being granted an erection permit hereunder,
shall pay a permit fee for each such sign and sign structure regulated by this
article. Unless otherwise specified in this article, each sign shall be
considered a separate structure requiring its own permit. Permit fees shall be
based on the market value of the sign at the time when said permit is applied
for. The permit fee shall be as specified in the international building code,
as adopted by the City of Rock Island.
   (2)   The owner of any building to which a sign is to be attached, said sign
to encroach or hang over public right-of-way, shall, before any permit be
granted for construction or installation of said sign, furnish the City of Rock
Island satisfactory evidence of liability insurance coverage in an amount of
not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) liability coverage on
account of any one accident, from an insurance company authorized to do
business in the state of Illinois, with an endorsement thereon holding the City
of Rock Island harmless from any claims or causes of action arising out of the
installation or maintenance of said sign. The owner of any building to which a
sign has been attached prior to the passage date hereof, which said sign
encroaches or hangs over public right-of-way, shall comply with the insurance
requirements of this section within thirty (30) days after the enactment of
this article.
   (3)   It shall be the duty of the inspection division and the planning and
redevelopment division, upon filing of an application for an erection permit,
to examine such plans, specifications, and other data relating to the proposed
sign and sign structure. If it appears that the proposed sign and sign
structure is in compliance with all the requirements of the International
Building Code, this article and all other laws and ordinances of the City of
Rock Island, he or she shall then issue an erection permit. If the work
authorized under an erection permit has not been completed within the period
specified in the building code, said permit shall become null and void, except
that if good cause is shown, the inspection division may extend the permit.
   (4)   The application for an erection permit of a sign in which electrical
wiring and connections are to be used shall be submitted to the inspection
division. The inspection division shall examine the plans and specifications
respecting all wiring and connections to determine if the same complies with
the electrical code of the City of Rock Island and he or she shall issue an
electrical permit if the said plans and specifications comply with said code.
(Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-
2024)
Sec. 4-60. Application for Erection Permit:
   Applications for erection permits shall be made upon forms provided by the
inspection division and shall contain or have attached thereto the following
information:
   (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the person erecting the sign.
   (2)   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the sign
is to be attached or erected.
   (3)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   (4)   Written consent of the owner or authorized representative of the
building, structure or land to which or on which the sign is to be erected.
   (5)   When requested by the inspection division, blueprints or drawings of
the plans and/or specifications and method of construction, attachment to the
building or in the ground, and the position of the sign in relation to nearby
buildings, structures or other signs.
   (6)   When requested by the inspection division, a copy of stress sheets and
calculations showing that sign and sign structure are designed for dead load
and wind pressure in any direction in the amount required by this and other
laws and ordinances of the City of Rock Island.
   (7)   Location and size of the proposed sign.
   (8)   Proof of insurance policy or bond.
   (9)   Such other information as the inspection division may require to show
full compliance with this and all other ordinances of the city. (Ord. 115-2004,
§ 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-61. Revocation of Permit:
   The inspection division is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke any
permit issued by him or her upon failure of the holder thereof to comply with
any provisions of this article. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-2019,
11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-62. Structural and Fabrication Regulations:
   All signs shall be built, constructed and erected in accordance with the
International Building Code and other ordinances of the City of Rock Island.
   (1)   Design Of Signs: Every freestanding sign including the frames and
poles or supports and footings, and every attached projecting sign, including
frames, braces and supports thereof shall be designed by a structural or
manufacturer's engineer in conformance with wind pressure and dead load
requirements established in this article and in accordance with the
international building code and other ordinances of the City of Rock Island.
   (2)   Erection Of Signs: Every freestanding sign shall be erected under the
supervision of an experienced construction superintendent or manufacturer's
representative capable of interpreting the construction and erection drawings
required in order to assure conformance with all provisions of this article.
   (3)   Treating Required: The owner of any sign (existing or proposed) shall
be required to have it properly painted, galvanized or otherwise treated to
prevent rust and deterioration of all parts and supports of the said sign. All
permanent signs must be constructed of rigid, weather-proof materials and
attached to a building so that wall penetrations are watertight and the
structure does not exceed allowable stressed of supporting materials.
   (4)   Wind Pressure And Dead Load Requirements: All signs shall be designed
and constructed to withstand wind pressure and to receive dead loads
      as required in the International Building Code or any other ordinance of
the City of Rock Island.
   (5)   No Glass Permitted: No glass shall be permitted except in the lighting
mechanism. Safety glass may be permissible in certain circumstances.
   (6)   Lights: Lights shall be permitted on signs providing they are made of
corrosion resistant materials. The lights shall be provided with proper lenses
concentrating the illumination upon the area of the sign and preventing glare
upon the street or adjacent property.
   (7)   Electrical Connections: All electrical connections shall be weather
tight and maintained in compliance with the current electrical code
requirements.
   (8)   Movable Parts To Be Secure: Any movable part of any sign such as the
cover of a service opening shall be securely fastened.
   (9)   Face Of Sign Shall Be Smooth: All signs or other advertising
structures which are constructed at the property line, or within five feet (5')
thereof, and are less than ten feet (10') above the ground over which they are
located shall not have a surface with nails, tacks or wires that protrude there
from, except electrical reflectors and devices which may extend over the top
and in front of the advertising structures.
   (10)   Letters To Be Secure: All letters, figures, characters or
representatives in cutout or irregular form maintained in conjunction with,
attached to, or superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built
or attached to the sign structure and shall comply with International Building
Code requirements.
   (11)   Materials Required: The support structures of all freestanding
elevated and roof signs for which a permit is required under this article,
shall be constructed of incombustible material, excluding trim. The facings of
freestanding and roof signs and facings and supports of freestanding, attached
projecting, attached wall and outdoor advertising signs are allowed to be
constructed of combustible materials if it is determined that they do not
increase the fire hazard of the structure.
   (12)   Supplementary Signs: No supplementary sign or other appendage may be
hung from or supported by an approved sign or its support if it will adversely
affect the structure of the approved sign or make the approved sign
nonconforming. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; Ord.
20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-63. Signs Not To Constitute A Traffic Hazard:
   No sign as regulated by this article shall be erected at the intersection of
any street, alley or driveway in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape or color, it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device; or which makes use of the words "STOP", "LOOK",
"DANGER", or any other word, phrase or symbol, or character in such manner as
to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004;
Ord. 063- 2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-64. Attached Signs:
   (a)   Location And Size:
   (1)   Every attached wall sign with electrical connections or requiring
attachments
      specified herein shall be placed at least ten feet (10') above the ground
over which it is erected. These limits include the space necessary to allow for
installation hardware. Requirements in the International Building Code will be
used to determine the distance of allowable projection into the public right-
of-way.
   (2)   Attached on premises signs (includes window, wall, and projecting
signs) may have an aggregate area of two square feet for each linear foot of
building frontage facing a street and not to exceed total sign area per lot as
identified by zoning district in this article. Permitted signs may be placed on
any facade of the building.
   (3)   Outdoor advertising signs shall meet the following qualifications:
      a.   Allowed by right in B-4, I-1 and I-2 zoning districts (maximum area
of three hundred (300) square feet).
      b.   Outdoor advertising signs up to seventy two (72) square feet to be
considered a use authorized by the Board of Appeals in B-1, B-2 and B-3 zoning
districts.
      c.   Maximum length of twenty five feet (25').
      d.   Maximum height of twenty five feet (25') (to include support post(s)
and be measured from grade level to top of sign).
      e.   Minimum one thousand foot (1,000') separation between outdoor
advertising signs includes both sides of street.
      f.   Minimum twenty five foot (25') front yard setback.
      g.   Minimum ten foot (10') side yard setback.
      h.   Minimum fifty foot (50') setback from residentially zoned parcel.
      i.   New sign locations, or locations where signs are rebuilt shall
landscape along and around the base support poles with low level shrubs and
perennials and/or annual plantings.
   (4)    No attached wall sign shall extend more than four feet (4') above the
facade of the building to which it is attached. A sign that is attached
parallel to any building or structure shall not project beyond the ends of the
wall to which it is attached.
   (5)   In the case of a lot or building facade with frontage on more than one
(1) street, attached signs may be permitted on each street in accordance with
the regulations of this article. In no case shall allowable sign area be
transferred from one street-facing facade to another street-facing facade.
   (6)   Attached signs identifying commercial uses in residential and
conservation zoning districts approved by the board of zoning appeals shall not
exceed fifteen (15) square feet in area, and shall be limited to one (1) sign
(attached or freestanding) on the premises of said use.
   (7)   Attached signs identifying churches, fraternities or other similar
uses in residential zoning districts shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet
in area, and shall be limited to one sign (attached or freestanding) on the
premises of said use.
   (8)   Attached signs for special use permits granted by the City Council
shall be allowed only when authorized by said Council, and shall conform to the
requirements of this article.
   (9)   If the projecting attached sign is illuminated, the reflectors shall
be provided with the proper glass lenses concentrating the illumination upon
the area of the sign and preventing glare upon the street or adjacent property.
   (10)   The distance measured between the principal faces of any attached
projecting sign shall not exceed eighteen inches (18").
   (11)   No attached projecting sign shall be secured with wire, strips of
wood or nails, nor shall any projecting sign be hung or secured to any other
sign.
   (12)   All attached wall signs shall be safely and securely attached to the
building wall by means of metal anchors, bolts or expansion screws of not less
than three-eighths inch (3/8") in diameter, embedded in said wall at least five
inches (5"); provided, however, that such signs may rest in, or be bolted to
strong, heavy metal brackets or saddles set not over six feet (6') apart, each
of which shall be securely fixed to the wall as hereinbefore provided. In no
case shall any attached wall sign be secured with wire, strips of wood, or
nails.
   (13)   Window signs shall cover no more than twenty-five (25%) of the
interior and exterior surface of window panes on the ground floor façade. (Ord.
115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-65. Freestanding Signs:
   (a)   Location And Size:
   (1)   Outdoor advertising signs shall be no nearer the street than the
building line established by law.
   (2)   No freestanding signs shall be nearer than two feet (2') to any other
sign, building or structure; providing, however that a sign of continuous
panels shall be considered as one (1) sign for this provision.
   (3)   Freestanding on premises signs may have an aggregate area not
exceeding one (1) square foot for each linear foot of lot frontage and not to
exceed total sign area per lot as identified by zoning district in this
article.
   (4)   Outdoor advertising signs shall meet the following qualifications:
      a.   Allowed by right in B-4, I-1 and I-2 zoning districts (maximum area
of three hundred (300) square feet).
      b.   Outdoor advertising signs up to seventy two (72) square feet to be
considered a use authorized by the Board of Appeals in B-1, B-2 and B-3 zoning
districts.
      c.   Maximum length of twenty five feet (25').
      d.   Maximum height of twenty five feet (25') (to include support post(s)
and be measured from grade level to top of sign).
      e.   Minimum one thousand foot (1,000') separation between outdoor
advertising signs includes both sides of street.
      f.   Minimum twenty five foot (25') front yard setback.
      g.   Minimum ten foot (10') side yard setback.
      h.   Minimum fifty foot (50') setback from residentially zoned parcel.
      i.   New sign locations, or locations where signs are rebuilt shall
landscape along and around the base support poles with low level shrubs and
perennials and/or annual plantings.
   (5)   In the case of a lot with frontage on more than one (1) street,
freestanding signs in accordance with subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of
this section may be permitted on each street. In no case shall allowable sign
area be transferred from one (1) street frontage to another street frontage.
   (6)   Freestanding signs identifying churches, fraternities or other similar
uses in residential zoning districts shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet
in area nor six feet (6') in height from the top of the sign to the ground,
shall be limited to one (1) sign (attached or freestanding) on the premises of
said use, and shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from all lot lines.
   (7)   Freestanding sign identifying commercial uses in residential and
conservation zoning districts approved by the board of zoning appeals shall not
exceed thirty (30) square feet in area nor six feet (6') in height from the top
of the sign to the ground, shall be limited to one (1) sign (attached or
freestanding) on the premises of said use, and shall be set back at least ten
feet (10') from all lot lines.
   (8)   Freestanding signs for special use permits granted by the city council
shall be allowed only when authorized by said council, and shall conform to the
requirements of this article.
   (9)   No part of a freestanding sign shall be located over the public right-
of-way. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063- 2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-
2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-66. Roof Signs:
   (a)   Location And Size:
   (1)   For the purposes of this article, roof signs shall be considered as
attached signs when determining the allowable square foot area and total square
foot area of all permitted signs. Temporary signs are prohibited from being
affixed to roofs.
   (b)   Erection: Requirements for erection of a roof sign are as follows:
   (1)   No roof sign shall be erected or maintained with the face thereof
nearer than five feet (5') to the outside wall toward which the sign faces;
however, if the sign is under twenty (20) square feet, it shall not be erected
with the face thereof nearer than one foot (1') to the outside wall toward
which the sign faces.
   (2)   All roof signs shall have a space at least five feet (5') in height
between the base of the sign and roof level, and have at least five feet (5')
of clearance between the vertical supports thereof.
   (3)   Every roof sign shall be thoroughly secured to the building by iron,
or other metal anchors, bolts, supports, rods, or braces. When erected upon
buildings that are not constructed of entirely
      fireproof material, the bearing plates of said sign shall bear directly
upon masonry walls and intermediate steel columns in the building. No roof sign
shall be supported or anchored to the wooden framework of a building.
   (c)   Inspection Of Roof: No sign shall be placed upon a roof unless said
roof has been determined by an architectural or structural engineer to have
sufficient strength to safely carry the proposed sign together with the
signature and seal of the architectural or structural engineer making said
inspection shall be placed upon or attached to all plans for proposed roof
signs before a permit will be issued. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-
2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-67.   Electronic Message Sign:
   (a)   The sign shall come equipped with automatic dimming technology which
automatically adjusts the sign's brightness based on ambient light conditions.
   (b)   The electronic message sign shall contain a default mechanism to turn
the sign off in case of malfunction or shall be manually turned off within
twenty-four (24) hours of a reported malfunction.
   (c)   All electronic message signs shall be illuminated at a level no
greater than 0.3 footcandles using a footcandle (Lux) meter over ambient light
levels at a preset distance depending on sign area, measured as follows:
 
Sign size (square feet) Distance from sign light source
0 to 100                100 feet
101 to 350              150 feet
351 to 650              200 feet
Over 651                250 feet
 
   (d)   Electronic message signs that are adjacent to a residential zoning
district shall not have the sign's luminance exceed one footcandle when
measured at any boundary line with adjoining residential zoned property and
shall also be turned off between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. The Planning and Redevelopment Administrator may restrict
or expand these hours as part of the sign permit based on these times the use
is open to the public.
   (e)   Electronic message signs are only permitted on freestanding signs and
projecting attached signs, and are subject to the requirements for that sign
type within the district.
   (f)   Electronic message signs must be integrated into the design of the
larger sign structure. The electronic message sign is limited to a maximum of
fifty percent (50%) of the total area of the sign. No sign structure that
includes a manual changeable copy sign may also include an electronic message
sign.
   (g)   Only one (1) electronic message sign per lot is permitted. For the
purpose of this regulation, a multi-tenant development where the development as
a whole is comprised of separate lots of record, the entire development
including outlot parcels and inline development, is considered one lot.
   (h)   Each message or image displayed on an electronic message sign must be
static for a minimum of two (2) seconds plus one (1) second for transition of
messages; such transiting may include scrolling, fading in, dropping in, or
similar moving copy changes. Multi-color messages and static messages are
permitted. Video display screens are prohibited.
   (i)   Electronic message signs cannot operate as a commercial outdoor
advertising sign. This does not include public service messages. (Ord. 063-
2019, 11-11- 2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-68.   Temporary Signs:
   (a)   Temporary signs which advertise real estate for sale, rent or lease,
or advertise a subdivision being developed, shall be restricted to six (6)
square feet in area when located on residentially zoned property of less than
two (2) acres, and shall be removed upon completion of the sale, rent or lease
of the property or sale of all lots in the subdivision. Such signs shall be
located on the property, and shall be located not less than ten feet (10') from
any street right-of-way.
   (b)   Temporary signs, which advertise real estate for sale, rent or lease,
or advertise a subdivision being developed shall be restricted to ninety six
(96) square feet in area, when located on property of two (2) or more acres.
Said signs shall be located on the property not less than ten feet (10') from
any street right-of-way lines, and shall be removed upon completion of the
sale, rent, or lease of the property or sale of all lots in the subdivision.
   (c)   Temporary signs which advertise contractors, engineers, developers,
architects, etc., for a site being developed shall be restricted to a total
area of ninety six (96) square feet in area and located not less than ten feet
(10') from any street right-of-way line or in conformance with the setback
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located, whichever is least
restrictive. Such signs shall be removed upon completion of the development and
issuance of an occupancy permit by the building official.
   (d)   Every temporary sign shall be attached to a wall or pole with steel
cables, bolts or other suitable fastenings or firmly affixed into the ground so
as to prevent movement.
   (e)   Attached temporary signs shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet
and shall be restricted to illumination by the normal lighting of the building.
This allotment shall not count towards the total sign area of the property.
   (f)   Freestanding temporary signs shall not exceed two (2) per frontage at
any one time and shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet. This allotment
shall not count towards the total sign area of the property.
   (g)   Temporary signs shall not be displayed for more than thirty (30)
continuous days or for more than thirty (30) total days within a calendar year.
The following non-exhaustive lists includes signs that are considered
temporary.
   (1)   Attention-getting inflatable devices;
   (2)   Banners (freestanding and attached);
   (3)   Feather signs;
   (4)   Pennants.
   (h)   Unless otherwise permitted herein, temporary signs shall follow all
other applicable requirements for attached and freestanding signs. (Ord. 115-
2004, § 1, 12-6- 2004; Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-69.   Signs Allowed By Zoning District:
   (a)   Office District (O-1): Attached signs allowed up to thirty two (32)
square feet in area, or twenty percent (20%) of building frontage, whichever is
less. Freestanding sign (only one (1) freestanding sign per street frontage)
allowed up to thirty two (32) square feet in area. Ten foot (10') setback from
all lot lines and six foot (6') maximum height from grade to top of sign. Total
sign area allowed per property is sixty four (64) square feet.
   (b)   Office Research And Technology District (ORT): Attached signs allowed
up to thirty two (32) square feet in area, or twenty percent (20%) of building
frontage, whichever is less. Freestanding sign (only one (1) freestanding sign
per street frontage) allowed up to thirty two (32) square feet in area. Ten
foot (10') setback from all lot lines and six foot (6') maximum height from
grade to top of sign. Total sign area allowed per property is sixty four (64)
square feet.
   (c)   Neighborhood Business District (B-1): Attached signs allowed up to
eighty percent (80%) of building frontage. Freestanding sign (only one (1)
freestanding sign per street frontage) setback ten feet (10') from all property
lines and a fifteen foot (15') maximum height from grade to top of sign. Total
sign area allowed based on one square foot for each linear foot of lot
frontage. Total sign area allowed per property is two hundred fifty (250)
square feet, with a maximum freestanding sign area of one hundred twenty (120)
square feet.
   (d)   Central Business District (B-2): Attached signs allowed up to eighty
percent (80%) of building frontage. Freestanding sign setback one foot (1') for
signs of one hundred (100) square feet or less. For each ten (10) square feet
over one hundred (100) square feet in area there is an additional one foot
setback from property lines. Fifteen foot (15') maximum height from grade to
top of sign. Total sign area allowed based on one (1) square foot for each
linear foot of lot frontage. Total sign area allowed per property is five
hundred (500) square feet, with a maximum freestanding sign area of one hundred
twenty (120) square feet.
   (e)   Community Business District (B-3): Attached signs allowed up to eighty
percent (80%) of building frontage. Freestanding sign setback one foot (1') for
signs of one hundred (100) square feet or less. For each ten (10) square feet
over one hundred (100) square feet in area there is an additional one foot (1')
setback from property lines. Twenty foot (20') maximum height from grade to top
of sign. Total sign area allowed based on one (1) square foot for each linear
foot of lot frontage. Total sign area allowed per property is five hundred
(500) square feet, with a maximum freestanding sign area of one hundred sixty
(160) square feet.
   (f)   Highway Business District (B-4): Attached signs allowed up to eighty
percent (80%) of building frontage. Freestanding sign setback one foot (1') for
signs of one hundred (100) square feet or less. For each ten (10) square feet
over one hundred (100) square feet in area there is an additional one foot (1')
setback from property lines. Twenty five foot (25') maximum height from grade
to top of sign. Total sign area allowed based on one (1) square foot for each
linear foot of lot frontage. Total sign area allowed per property is five
hundred (500) square feet with a maximum freestanding sign area of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet.
   (g)   Light Industrial District (I-1): Attached signs allowed up to eighty
percent (80%) of building frontage. Freestanding sign setback one foot (1') for
signs of one hundred (100) square feet or less. For each ten (10) square feet
over one hundred (100) square feet in area there is an additional one foot (1')
setback from property lines. Twenty five foot (25') maximum height from grade
to top of sign. Total sign area allowed based on one (1) square foot for each
linear foot of lot frontage. Total sign area allowed per property is five
hundred (500) square feet, with a maximum freestanding sign area of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet.
   (h)   General Industrial District (I-2): Attached signs allowed up to eight
percent (80%) of building frontage. Freestanding sign setback one foot (1') for
signs of one hundred (100) square feet or less. For each ten (10) square feet
over one hundred (100) square feet in area there is an additional one foot (1')
setback from property lines. Twenty five foot (25') maximum height from grade
to top of sign. Total sign area allowed based on one (1) square foot for each
linear foot of lot frontage. Total sign area allowed per property is five
hundred (500) square feet with a maximum freestanding sign area of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet.
   (i)   University/College District (U-1): Attached signs identifying uses
affiliated with a college, university or seminary, and shall not exceed thirty
(30) square feet in area. Freestanding signs shall not exceed thirty (30)
square feet in area, nor six feet (6') in height from the top of sign to the
ground and shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from all lot lines. The
property's use must meet the thirty foot (30') separation requirement from any
residentially zoned or one- and two-family used lot, as specified in the U-
1 district. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019)
Sec. 4-70.   Permitted Signs for Nonconforming Uses:
   (a)   Signs Permitted Upon Approval: A sign or signs pertaining to a
nonconforming use on the premises may be permitted upon approval by the Board
of Zoning Appeals only after all of the following conditions are satisfied, and
only if a sign would be allowed on the premises if said use were properly
zoned.
   (b)   It is the intent of this section to allow nonconforming uses to have
one (1) sign for the purpose of identification but because of the nature of
nonconforming uses, they shall be more restricted than those allowed for
permitted uses. All signs under this section shall comply with all other
applicable sections of this article.
   (c)   Signs on nonconforming uses may be replaced only with signs of the
same size or smaller, at the same location on the building or premises (or in a
less conspicuous location) and of the same lighting (or less), but shall not be
in violation of any other section of this article.
   (d)   Only one (1) sign shall be permitted on the premises of a
nonconforming use except signs regulatory for parking areas.
   (e)   If no sign existed on the premises during the six (6) months
immediately preceding application for a sign permit under this section, the
following regulations shall apply:
   (1)   A freestanding or attached sign shall not exceed fifteen (15) square
feet in area.
   (2)   A freestanding sign shall not exceed six feet (6') in height from the
top of the sign to the ground, and shall be set back at least ten feet (10')
from all lot lines.
   (3)   No flashing lights or rotating signs shall be allowed.
   (4)   No roof signs shall be allowed. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord.
063- 2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-71.   Prohibited Signs:
   (a)   The following signs shall not be permitted, erected, or maintained in
any zoning district.
   (1)   Except for traffic warning devices and signs giving public service
information, such as, but not limited to, time, date, temperature, weather, or
similar information, signs which incorporate in any manner moving,
scintillating, or revolving lights, or signs with flashing lights that have a
change frequency of less than five (5) seconds.
   (2)   Any revolving sign with a rotation frequency more than eight (8)
revolutions per minute.
   (3)   LED storefront lights, string lights, or rope lights placed within or
around windows or on a building façade other than holiday decorations.
   (4)   Any sign which obstructs free passage from one (1) part of a roof to
any other part and free ingress or egress from a required door, window, fire
escape, roof opening or other required exitway.
   (5)   Portable signs with the exemption of sidewalk signs that are six feet
(6') in area, measuring both sides collectively, or smaller.
   (6)   Freestanding spinners, except as the city council may authorize
temporarily for civic or nonprofit organizations.
   (7)   Temporary signs that are in place for more than thirty (30) continuous
days.
   (8)   Vehicle signs.
   (9)   Video display screens.
   (10)   Strobe lights, moving or fixed spotlights, and floodlights/
searchlights.
   (11)   Flashing lights.
   (12)   Temporary signs or banners wrapped around or attached to a permanent
sign structure, light post, fence, or similar fixture along with any sign
attached or affixed with zip-ties, adhesives, or similar non-permanent means.
   (b)   All signs prohibited by this section shall be removed within seven (7)
days of owner receiving notice from the city. (Ord. 115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004;
Ord. 063- 2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-72.   Nonconforming or Nuisance Signs:
   (a)   Nonconforming Signs: A nonconforming sign may be continued and shall
be maintained in good condition, but it shall not be:
   (1)   Changed to another nonconforming sign.
   (2)   Structurally altered, except for normal maintenance and copy changes
as long as maintenance does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the replacement
value of the sign at any one time and not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
outdoor advertising signs.
   (3)   Re-established after damage or destruction if the estimated expense of
reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the appraised replacement cost as
determined by the building official.
   (4)   Moved to another location unless brought into conformance.
   (b)   Unsafe And Unlawful Signs: If community and economic development
department staff find that any sign regulated herein is structurally unsafe;
constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, or abandonment, defined as having no active copy on an outdoor
advertising sign within the past ninety (90) days or the advertisement of a
business, concern or use which has been closed for greater than ninety (90)
days; is not kept in good repair; is capable of causing electrical shocks to
persons likely to come in contact with it; constitutes a safety risk to
emergency first responders by limiting their field of vision; or is unlawfully
installed, erected or maintained; he or she shall give written notice to the
permittee and/or owner thereof. If the permittee and/or owner fails to remove
or alter the structure so as to comply with the standards herein set forth
within ten (10) days after such notice, said sign shall be removed or altered
to comply by the community and economic development department at the expense
of the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is located.
   (c)   Removal Of Signs (Obsolete Signs): The property owner shall remove all
obsolete signs within ninety (90) days after termination of business. Removal
of obsolete signs shall include the supporting structure, exclusive of any
building.
   (d)   Maintenance Provision: The owner of any sign requiring a permit shall
be required to maintain an exterior which is properly painted, galvanized or
otherwise treated to prevent rust and deterioration of all parts, including
lighting and supports. All signs, and landscaping around the sign base, shall
be required to be adequately maintained and shall not become tattered, torn,
frayed, ragged, shredded, unkempt or the like. The sign shall be repaired
within sixty (60) days following notice from the city of a violation. (Ord.
115-2004, § 1, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063- 2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-73.   Administration and Appeal:
   (a)   Administration: This article shall be administered by the inspection
division and the planning and redevelopment division, each according to its
obvious responsibilities according to the meaning of the language contained
herein. Upon presentation of proper credentials, these persons or their duly
authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the City of Rock Island to perform any duty imposed
upon them by this article.
   (b)   Right Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved by any ruling of any person
charged with the administration of this article may take an appeal to the
appropriate appeal board: Building Code Board of Appeals, Electrical Code Board
or the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (c)   Jurisdiction:
   (1)   Appeals taken from requests relating to construction shall be filed
with the building official or the electrical inspector, as the case may be,
shall be subject to the procedures established by those respective commissions,
and are not subject to the provisions of this section.
   (2)   In addition to the jurisdiction authorized in section 5.9 of the Rock
Island zoning ordinance, the Board of Zoning Appeals, hereinafter referred to
as "the Board", is hereby vested with the following jurisdiction and authority:
      a.   To hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by any person charged with the administration of
this article, except appeals relating to the construction as identified under
subsection (c)(1) of this section. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
in part, or may modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from to the extent and in the manner that the Board may
decide to be fitting and proper on the premises, and to that end, the Board
shall also have all the power of the officer from whom the appeals are taken.
      b.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this article.
      c.   To hear and pass upon applications for variances from a strict
application of the terms of this article, in the manner and subject to the
standards set out in subsection (f) of this section.
   (3)   Provision Of Regulation: The creation, membership and meeting rules,
application process and fee, and stay of proceedings provisions for the Board,
as established under article V of the Rock Island zoning ordinance shall apply
to all appeals and variances from this article.
   (4)   Hearing Of Appeals:
      a.   An appeal of a decision shall be taken within thirty five (35) days
after such decision is made.
      b.   All final administrative decisions of the Board under this section
shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the
"Administrative Review Act" of the State of Illinois, approved May 8, 1945, and
all amendments and modifications thereto. The term "administrative decision" is
defined as in the "Administrative Review Act".
   (5)   Variances:
      a.   The Board may vary the application of this article in harmony with
its general purpose and intent, in accordance with the procedure set forth
herein, where there are practical hardships in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of any provisions of this article. Any such variance shall be
granted only after a public hearing before the Board. The Board shall make
final decisions on all variances except for variances for business zoned
properties on parcels twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or larger in total
area. In those circumstances, the Board will conduct the public hearing and
then make a recommendation to the City Council for final action.
      b.   A variance may be granted only when special circumstances involving
size, shape, topography, location or surroundings affect the property referred
to in the application, when denial of said application would cause unreasonable
or unnecessary hardship, and when said sign will not cause substantial injury
to the value of other property in the vicinity nor be detrimental to the public
safety or welfare and the neighborhood in which it is located.
   (6)   Decisions Of The Board: All decisions and findings of the Board, on
appeal or upon application for a variance, after a hearing, shall in all
instances be final administrative determinations and shall be subject to review
by court as may be provided by law. (Ord. 115-2004, 12-6-2004; Ord. 015-2018,
4-23-2018; Ord. 063-2019, 11-11- 2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 4-74.   Penalties:
   The city may file an ordinance complaint with the Municipal Code Enforcement
Service (MUNICES) in order to enforce regulations within this article. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord.
115-2004, 12-6-2004; Ord. 063-2019, 11-11-2019; Ord. 20-2024, 4-8-2024)
Secs. 4-75 – 4-110. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS 4
 
Notes
4 See § 7-181 et seq., housing code, of this code.
Sec. 4-111. Title And Scope:
   (a)   Title: This article shall be known as the ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS
BUILDINGS CODE, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "this
Code".
   (b)   Purpose: It is the purpose of this Code to provide a just, equitable
and practical method to be cumulative with, and in addition to, any other
remedy provided by the Building Code or otherwise available at law, whereby
buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb, health,
morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public or their occupants
may be required to be repaired, vacated or demolished.
   (c)   Scope: The following provisions shall apply to all dangerous
buildings, as herein defined, which are now in existence or which may hereafter
become dangerous in this jurisdiction. The building official may, in addition
to any other remedy herein provided, cause the building to be repaired to the
extent necessary to correct the conditions which render the building dangerous
as set forth in the notice and order; or if the notice and order require
demolition, to cause the building to be demolished, and the materials, rubble
and debris therefrom removed and the lot cleaned. Any such demolition work
shall be accomplished and the cost thereof paid and recovered in the manner
provided in section 4-122 of this article. (Ord. 82-66, 1-17-1983)
Sec. 4-112. Definitions:
For the purpose of the code, certain terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this section or as
specified in the Building Code. Where terms are not defined, they shall have
their ordinary accepted meanings within the context in which they are used.
"Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language",
unabridged, copyright 1961, shall be considered as providing ordinary accepted
meanings. Words in the singular include the plural and the plural the singular.
Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and the feminine the
masculine.
   Abandoned Building: Any building or part of a building which is unoccupied
and is deemed hazardous due to the fact that the building is unsecured and open
to trespass, or was open to trespass and is now boarded.
   Accessory Building: Any building which is not a dwelling and is constructed
for use accessory to a principal building.
   Building Code: The Uniform Building Code, promulgated by the International
Conference of Building Officials, as approved and adopted, as amended by the
City.
   Building Official: The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of this Code, or his duly authorized
representative.
   Dangerous Building: Any building or structure deemed to be dangerous under
the provisions of section 4-116 of this article.
   Owner: Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to any structure or building, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of the dwelling or dwelling unit as
owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee or guardian
of the estate of the owner.
   Person: Any one or more natural persons, legal entities, governmental bodies
or any combination thereof.
   Principal Building: Any building constructed for or used as a principal
building on a piece of property. (Ord. 82-66, 1-17-1983; Ord. 88-40, 7-11-1988)
Sec. 4-113. Penalties:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this code
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; and each such person shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed,
continued, or permitted; and upon conviction of any such violation, such person
shall be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00),
or by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 82-66, § 1101, 1-17-1983)
Sec. 4-114. Enforcement:
   (a)   Generally:
      (1)   Authority: The building official is hereby authorized and directed
to enforce all the provisions of this code. For such purpose, he shall have the
powers of a law enforcement officer.
      (2)   Right Of Entry: Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this code, of whenever the building official or his
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes
such building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official
or his authorized representative may enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed on the
building official by this code, provided that if such building or premises be
occupied, he shall first present proper credentials and request entry; and if
such building or premises be unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the
building or premises and request entry. If such entry is refused, the building
official or his authorized representative shall have recourse to every remedy
provided by law to secure entry.
      (3)   Responsibilities Defined: Every owner remains liable for violations
of duties imposed upon him by this code even though an obligation is also
imposed on the occupants of his building, and even though the owner has, by
agreement, imposed on the occupant the duty of furnishing required equipment or
of complying with this code.
Every owner or his agent, in addition to being responsible for maintaining his
building in a sound structural condition, shall be responsible for keeping that
part of the building or premises which he occupies or controls in a clean,
sanitary and safe condition, including the shared or public areas in a building
containing two (2) or more dwelling units.
   (b)   Dangerous Buildings To Be Abated as Nuisances. All buildings or
portions thereof which are determined to be dangerous as defined in this code
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedures
specified in sections
4-117--
4-121.
   (c)   Role of Building Code Board of Appeals. Final interpretation of the
provisions of this code and appeals provided for hereunder shall be heard and
decided upon by the building code board of appeals. Appeals to the board shall
be processed in accordance with the provisions contained in section
4-119(a)--(c).
(Ord. No. 82-66, §§ 201--203, 1-17-83)
Cross reference--Building code board of appeals, §§ 2-286, 2-286.1.
Sec. 4-115. Permits and inspections.
   (a)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish any building or structure regulated by this code without first
obtaining a separate permit for each building or structure from the building
official in the manner and according to the applicable conditions prescribed in
chapter 3 of the building code.
   (b)   Fees. Whenever a building permit is required by subsection (a) above,
the appropriate fees shall be paid to the city as specified in the revised
appendix of the building code.
      (1)   Inspection. All buildings or structures within the scope of this
code and all construction or work for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the building official in accordance with and in the
manner provided by this code and sections 305 and 306 of the building code.
      (2)   The building official may request, and shall receive so far as is
required, in the discharge of his duties, the assistance and cooperation of
other officials in this jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 82-66, §§ 301--303, 1-17-83)
Sec. 4-116. What constitutes a dangerous building.
For the purpose of this code, any building or structure which has any or all of
the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be a
dangerous building, provided that such conditions or defects exist to the
extent that the life, health, property or safety of the public or its occupants
are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide
safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one half (1 1/2) times the
working stress or stresses allowed in the building code for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location.
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the building code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location.
      (5)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
      (6)   Whenever any portion of the building or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half that specified in the building
code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without
exceeding the working stresses permitted in the building code for such
buildings.
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of faulty construction; dilapidation, deterioration or decay; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of foundation, shows
thirty-three (33) percent or more damage or deterioration of its supporting
member(s), or fifty (50) percent damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting
members, enclosing or outside walls or coverings.
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become an attractive nuisance to children; a harbor for vagrants, criminals or
immoral persons; or as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing unlawful or immoral acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this city, as specified in the building code or housing code, or of any law
or ordinance of this state or city relating to the condition, location or
structure of buildings.
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has any nonsupporting
part, member or portion less than fifty (50) percent, or in any supporting
part, member or portion less than sixty-six (66) percent of the strength, fire-
resisting qualities or characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or
characteristics required by law in the case of a newly constructed building of
like area, height and occupancy in the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the city's public health sanitarian
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the fire chief or his
representative to be a fire hazard.
      (17)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity
jurisprudence.
      (18)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six (6) months
so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. No. 82-66, § 501, 1-17-83)
Sec. 4-117. Notices and orders of building official--Generally.
   (a)   Commencement of Proceedings. Whenever the building official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any building and has found and determined
that such building is a dangerous building, he shall commence proceedings to
cause the repair, rehabilitation, vacation or demolition of the building.
   (b)   Notice and Order. The building official shall issue a notice and order
directed to the record owner of the building. The notice and order shall
contain:
      (1)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
      (2)   A statement that the building official has found the building to be
dangerous with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous under the provisions of section
4-122.
      (3)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
building official.
         a.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that all required permits
be secured therefor and the work physically commenced within such time (not to
exceed sixty (60) days from the date of the order) and completed within such
time as the building official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances.
         b.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a certain time from the date of the order as
determined by the building official to be reasonable.
         c.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the building official shall determine reasonable
(not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date of the order); that all required
permits be secured therefor within sixty (60) days from the date of the order,
and that the demolition be completed within such time as the building official
shall determine is reasonable.
      (4)   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work
(without vacation also being required) is not commenced within the time
specified, the building official may order the building vacated and posted to
prevent further occupancy until the work is completed.
      (5)   Statements advising:
         a.   That any person having any record title or legal interest in the
building may appeal from the notice and order or any action of the building
official within thirty (30) days from the date of service of such notice and
order; and
         b.   That failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of, all right to
an administrative hearing and determination of the matter.
   (c)   Service of Notice and Order. The notice and order, and any amended or
supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner and posted
on the property; and one (1) copy thereof shall be served on each of the
following, if known to the building official or disclosed from official public
records: The holder of any mortgage or deed of trust or other lien or
encumbrance of record; the owner or holder of any lease of record; and the
holder of any other estate or legal interest of record in or to the building or
the land on which it is located. The failure of the building official to serve
any person required herein to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings
hereunder as to any other person duly served or relieve any such person from
any duty or obligation imposed on him by the provisions of this section.
   (d)   Method of Service. Service of the notice and order shall be made upon
all persons entitled thereto either personally or by mailing a copy of such
notice and order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
to each such person at his address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county or as known to the building official. If no
address of any such person so appears or is known to the building official,
then a copy of the notice and order shall be so mailed, addressed to such
person at the address of the building involved in the proceedings. The failure
of any such person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this section. Service by certified mail in the manner
herein provided shall be effective on the date of mailing.
   (e)   Proof of Service. Proof of service of the notice and order shall be
certified to at the time of service by a written declaration under penalty of
perjury executed by the person effecting service, declaring the time, date and
manner in which service was made. The declaration, together with any receipt
card returned in acknowledgment of receipt of certified mail shall be affixed
to the copy of the notice and order retained by the building official.
   (f)   Repair, Vacation and Demolition Standards To Be Followed. The
following standards shall be followed by the building (and by the building code
board of appeals if an appeal is taken) in ordering the repair, vacation or
demolition of any dangerous building or structure:
      (1)   Any building declared a dangerous building under this article shall
either be repaired in accordance with the current building code or shall be
demolished at the option of the building owner.
      (2)   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or of
the occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
(Ord. No. 82-66, §§ 601, 602, 1-17-83)
Sec. 4-118. Same--Notice to vacate.
   (a)   Posting. Every notice to vacate shall, in addition to being served as
provided in section
4-117(c), be posted at or upon each exit of the building, and shall be in
substantially the following form:
      DO NOT ENTER
      UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
      It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building or to remove or deface this
notice.
      Building Official
      City of Rock Island
   (b)   Compliance. Whenever such notice is posted, the building official
shall include a notification thereof in the notice and order issued by him
under subsection (b) of section
4-117, reciting the emergency and specifying the conditions which necessitate
the posting. No person shall remain in or enter any building which has been so
posted, except that entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove such
building under permit. No person shall remove or deface any such notice after
it is posted until the required repairs, demolition or removal have been
completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of
the building code. Any person violating this subsection shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 82-66, § 603, 1-17-83)
Sec. 4-119. Appeal.
   (a)   Form of Appeal. Any person entitled to service under section
4-117(c) may appeal from any notice and order or any action of the building
official under this code by filing at the office of the building official a
written appeal containing:
      (1)   A heading in the words: "Before the Building Code Board of Appeals
of the City of Rock Island."
      (2)   A caption reading: "Appeal of           ," giving the names of all
appellants participating in the appeal.
      (3)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
appellants in the building or the land involved in the notice and order.
      (4)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of that specific
order or action protested, together with any material facts claimed to support
the contentions of the appellant.
      (5)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought and the reasons why it is claimed the protested order or action should
be reversed, modified or otherwise set aside.
      (6)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
official mailing addresses.
      (7)   The verification (by declaration under penalty of perjury) of at
least one (1) appellant as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
The appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of the service
of such order or action of the building official; however, if the building or
structure is in such condition as to make it immediately dangerous to life,
limb, property or safety of the public or adjacent property and is ordered
vacated and is posted in accordance with section
4-118, such appeal shall be filed within ten (10) days from the date of the
service of the notice and order of the building official.
   (b)   Processing of Appeal. Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to
this section, the building official shall present it at the next regular or
special meeting of the building code board of appeals.
   (c)   Scheduling and Noticing Appeal for Hearing. As soon as practicable
after receiving the written appeal, the building code board of appeals shall
fix a date, time and place for the hearing of the appeal by the board. Such
date shall be not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days from
the date the appeal was filed with the building official. Written notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be given at least ten (10) days prior to
the date of the hearing to each appellant by the secretary of the board, either
by causing a copy of such notice to be delivered to the appellant personally or
by mailing a copy thereof, postage prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his
address shown on the appeal.
   (d)   Effect of Failure To Appeal. Failure of any person to file an appeal
in accordance with the provisions of section
4-117(a)--(e) and subsections (a)--(c) of this section shall constitute a
waiver of his right to an administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice
and order or to any portion thereof.
   (e)   Scope of Hearing on Appeal. Only those matters or issues specifically
raised by the appellant shall be considered in the hearing of the appeal.
   (f)   Staying of Order Under Appeal. Except for vacation orders made
pursuant to section, enforcement of any notice and order of the building
official issued under this code shall be stayed during the pendency of an
appeal therefrom which is properly and timely filed.
(Ord. No. 82-66, §§ 701-704, 1-17-83)
Sec. 4-120. Procedures for conduct of hearing appeals.
   (a)   Generally.
      (1)   Building code board of appeals. The board hearing the case shall
exercise all powers relating to the conduct of hearings and shall render the
final decision.
      (2)   Record. A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape
recording or by any other means of permanent recording determined to be
appropriate by the board.
      (3)   Reporting. The proceedings at the hearing shall also be reported by
a phonographic reporter if requested by any party thereto. The party requesting
the services of a phonographic reporter shall pay the fee prescribed therefor.
A transcript of the proceedings shall be made available to all parties upon
request and upon payment of the fee prescribed therefor. Such fees may be
established by the board but shall in no event be greater than the cost
involved.
      (4)   Oaths; certification. In any proceedings under this section, the
board or any board member has the power to administer oaths and affirmations
and to certify to official acts.
      (5)   Reasonable dispatch. The board and its representatives shall
proceed with reasonable dispatch to conclude any matter before it. Due regard
shall be shown for the convenience and necessity of any parties or their
representatives.
   (b)   Form of Notice of Hearing. The notice to appellant shall be
substantially in the following form, but may include other information:
      "You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before the building
code board of appeals at            on the            day of           , 19   ,
at the hour           , upon the notice and order served upon you. You may be
present at the hearing. You may be, but need not be, represented by counsel.
You may present any relevant evidence and will be given full opportunity to
cross-examine all witnesses testifying against you. You may request the
issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production
of books, documents or other things by filing an affidavit therefor with the
building code board of appeals."
   (c)   Subpoenas.
      (1)   Filing of affidavit. The board may obtain the issuance and service
of a subpoena for the attendance of witnesses or the production of other
evidence at a hearing upon the request of a member of the board or upon the
written demand of any party. The issuance and service of such subpoena shall be
obtained upon the filing of an affidavit therefor which states the name and
address of the proposed witness; specifies the exact things sought to be
produced and the materiality thereof in detail to the issues involved; and
states that the witness has the desired things in his possession or under his
control. A subpoena need not be issued when the affidavit is defective in any
particular.
      (2)   Penalties. Any person who refuses without lawful excuse to attend
any hearing, or to produce material evidence in his possession or under his
control, as required by any subpoena served upon such person as provided for
herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (d)   Conduct of Hearing.
      (1)   Rules. Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical
rules relating to evidence and witnesses.
      (2)   Oral evidence. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
      (3)   Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
      (4)   Admissibility of evidence. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted
if it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to
rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any
common law or statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such
evidence over objection in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in
this state.
      (5)   Exclusion of evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
      (6)   Rights of parties. Each party shall have these rights, among
others:
         a.   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing.
         b.   To introduce documentary and physical evidence.
         c.   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing.
         d.   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called him
to testify.
         e.   To rebut the evidence against him.
         f.   To represent himself or to be represented by anyone of his choice
who is lawfully permitted to do so.
      (7)   Official notice.
         a.   What may be noticed. In reaching a decision, official notice may
be taken, either before or after submission of the case for decision, of any
fact which may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official
records of the board or department and ordinances of the city or rules and
regulations of the board.
         b.   Parties to be notified. Parties present at the hearing shall be
informed of the matters to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the
record, referred to therein or appended thereto.
         c.   Opportunity to refute. Parties present at the hearing shall be
given a reasonable opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed
matters by evidence or by written or oral presentation of authority, the manner
of such refutation to be determined by the board.
         d.   Inspection of the premises. The board may inspect any building or
premises involved in the appeal during the course of the hearing, provided
that:
            1.   Notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties before
the inspection is made;
            2.   The parties are given an opportunity to be present during the
inspection; and
            3.   The board shall state for the record upon completion of the
inspection the material facts observed and the conclusions drawn therefrom.
      Each party shall then have a right to rebut or explain the matters so
stated by the board.
   (e)   Method and Form of Decision.
      (1)   Hearing before board. Where a case is heard before the board, no
member thereof who did not hear the evidence or has not read the entire record
of the proceedings shall vote on or take part in the decision.
      (2)   Form of decision. Any decision by the board shall comply with the
provisions of this section. The decision shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the requirements
to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the appellant
personally or sent to him by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested.
      (3)   Effective date of decision. The effective date of the decision
shall be as stated therein.
(Ord. No. 82-66, §§ 801--805, 1-17-83)
Sec. 4-121. Enforcement of the order of the building official or the board of
appeals.
   (a)   Compliance.
      (1)   General. After any order of the building official or the building
code board of appeals made pursuant to this code shall have become final, no
person to whom any such order is directed shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey
any such order. Any such person who fails to comply with any such order is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Failure to obey order. If, after any order of the building official
or the building code board of appeals made pursuant to this code has become
final, the person to whom such order is directed shall fail, neglect or refuse
to obey such order, the building official may:
         a.   Cause such person to be prosecuted under subsection (1) of this
paragraph (a); or
         b.   Institute any appropriate action to abate such building as a
public nuisance.
      (3)   Failure to commence work. Whenever the required repair or
demolition is not commenced within thirty (30) days after any final notice and
order issued under this code becomes effective:
         a.   The building official shall cause the building described in such
notice and order to be vacated by posting at each entrance thereto a notice
reading:
            DANGEROUS BUILDING
            DO NOT OCCUPY
            It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building or to remove or deface
this notice.
            Building Official
            City of Rock Island
         b.   No person shall occupy any building which has been posted as
specified in this subsection. No person shall remove or deface any such notice
so posted until the repairs, demolition or removal ordered by the building
official have been completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to
the provisions of the building code.
         c.   The building official may, in addition to any other remedy herein
provided, cause the building to be repaired to the extent necessary to correct
the conditions which render the building substandard as set forth in the notice
and order or, if the notice and order required demolition, to cause the
building to be demolished, and the materials, rubble and debris therefrom
removed and the lot cleaned. Any such demolition work shall be accomplished and
the cost thereof paid and recovered in the manner hereinafter provided in this
code under section
4-122.
   (b)   Extension of Time To Perform Work. Upon receipt of an application from
the person required to conform to the order and an agreement by such person
that he will comply with the order if allowed additional time, the building
official may, in his discretion, grant an extension of time, not to exceed an
additional one hundred twenty (120) days, within which to complete the
demolition, if the building official determines that such an extension of time
will not create or perpetuate a situation imminently dangerous to life or
property. The building official's authority to extend time is limited to the
demolition of the premises and will not in any way affect or extend the time to
appeal his notice and order.
   (c)   Interference With Demolition Work Prohibited. No person shall
obstruct, impede or interfere with any officer, employee, contractor or
authorized representative of the city or with any person who owns or holds any
estate or interest in any building which has been ordered boarded, vacated or
demolished under the provisions of this code or other ordinances; or with any
person to whom such building has been lawfully sold pursuant to the provisions
of this code, whenever such officer, employee, contractor or authorized
representatives of this jurisdiction, person having an interest or estate in
such building or structure, or purchaser is engaged in the work of boarding,
vacating or demolishing any such building pursuant to the provisions of this
code or any other law or ordinance, or in performing any necessary act
preliminary to or incidental to such work as authorized or directed.
   (d)   Emergency Action. Whenever a condition exists in a principal building
or accessory building which places occupants, property or the public in
imminent peril, the chief building inspector or his designee along with the
concurrence of the city attorney and the city manager or their designees may
take any such necessary action to abate any such condition forthwith, without
prior notification to the person or persons responsible when reasonable notice
cannot be achieved or would unnecessarily perpetuate a dangerous condition.
Further, the city shall at all times have the right to enter upon property to
remove any condition which is a definite danger to the property and/or the
surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. No. 82-66, §§ 901--903, 1-17-88; Ord. No. 88-40, § 2, 3, 7-11-88)
Sec. 4-122. Legal procedure to acquire demolition and recover cost of
demolition.
   (a)   The building official may cause the demolition or repair of dangerous
and substandard, principal or accessory, buildings or uncompleted and abandoned
buildings within the territory of the city.
   (b)   The building official shall, in actions involving principal buildings,
apply to the circuit court of the county in which such building is located for
an order authorizing such action to be taken with respect to any such building,
if the owner or owners thereof, including the lien holders of record, after at
least thirty (30) days' written notice by mail to do so, have failed to put
such building in a safe condition or demolish it. In actions involving
accessory buildings the chief building inspector or his designee shall cause
the building to be demolished and the site cleared and cleaned if the owner or
owners thereof, including the lien holders of record, after at least thirty
(30) days' written notice by mail to do so have failed to put such building in
a safe condition or demolish it. Costs for any such accessory building
demolition shall be billed to the owner or owners and if unpaid after thirty
(30) days the chief building inspector, or his designee, may file a lien for
the cost of demolition against the property; and the city attorney is
authorized and directed to initiate appropriate legal action to recover the
costs of said demolition.
   (c)   Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner
or owners of any such building, including the lien holders of record, are not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real
estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this section.
   (d)   The hearing upon such application to the circuit court shall be
expedited by the court and shall be given precedence over all other suits. The
cost of such demolition or repair shall be a personal obligation of the
property owner. Any cost incurred by the municipality or lien holder of record,
in execution of the demolition or repair, is recoverable from the owner or
owners of such real estate and is a lien thereon, which lien is superior to all
prior existing liens and encumbrances except taxes, provided that within seven
(7) months after such repair or demolition, the municipality or the lien holder
of record who incurred such cost and expense shall file notice of lien of such
cost and expense incurred in the office of the recorder of deeds in the county
in which the real estate is located.
   (e)   The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred; and
      (3)   The date or dates when the cost and expense were incurred by the
municipality or by the lien holder of record.
   (f)   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in the property, after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the municipality or person in whose name the lien has been filed
and the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case of
mortgages or mechanics' liens.
   (g)   Suit to foreclose the lien shall be commenced no later than two (2)
years, eleven (11) months after the date of filing notice of lien.
   (h)   In addition to the foregoing, the building official may cause
appropriate legal action to be taken by the city to acquire a judgment for the
costs of demolition against the owner or owners of the premises.
(Ord. No. 82-66, § 1001, 1-17-83; Ord. No. 88-40, §§ 4--6, 7-11-88; Ord. No.
92-95, § 1, 6-22-92)
Secs. 4-123--4-135. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. REGISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF FORECLOSED, VACANT, AND ABANDONED
PROPERTY
Sec. 4-136. Purpose and Intent.
It is the purpose and intent of the City to establish a process to address the
deterioration, crime, and decline in value of City neighborhoods caused by
property with foreclosing or foreclosed mortgages located within the City, and
to identify, regulate, limit and reduce the number of these properties located
within the City. It has been determined that owner-occupied structures are
generally better maintained when compared to vacant structures, even with a
diligent off-site property owner. Vacant structures or structures owned by
individuals who are economically strained and unable to meet their mortgage
obligations are often not properly or diligently maintained, which contribute
to blight, declined property values, and have a negative impact on social
perception of the residential areas where they are located. It is the Council's
further intent to establish a registration program as a mechanism to help
protect neighborhoods from becoming blighted through the lack of adequate
maintenance of properties that are in foreclosure or foreclosed, and to provide
a mechanism to avert foreclosure actions through timely intervention,
education, or counseling of property owners. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-137. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   Abandoned Building shall mean any building or part of a building which has
deteriorated to become a dangerous building, unsecured and open to trespass.
Such a building cannot be lawfully occupied and must be declared vacant, and
therefore it is a registrable property per this article. Such a building also
constitutes a public nuisance.
   Boarded Building shall mean a building that has had, in a manner intended to
be temporary or permanent, any or all of its openings covered by some material
for the purpose of securing or preventing access or damage to the building or
its components, whether such material is opaque, solid or transparent, and
whether such material is affixed to the interior or exterior of the building.
For the purpose of this definition, such openings shall include any doors,
windows or other openings that exist for the purpose of providing light,
ventilation, ingress and egress to the building or other access to a part or
portion of the building.
   Building shall mean any structure occupied or intended for occupancy.
   Code Official shall mean the Chief Building Official or their designee. All
references to the code official in this article shall be understood as such.
   Dangerous Building shall mean:
   (1)   Any building that is, in the opinion of the code official, dangerous
to the public health because of its construction or condition, or which may
cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health of its
occupants or to neighboring structures; or
   (2)   Any building which, because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair or any other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes
or creates a fire hazard; or
   (3)   Any building, which, due to faulty construction, age, or lack of
repair is likely to partially or wholly collapse or fall.
   Default shall mean that the mortgagor has not complied with the terms of the
mortgage on the property, or the promissory note, or other evidence of the
debt, referred to in the mortgage.
   Enforcement Officer shall mean any code official, law enforcement officer,
building official, zoning inspector, fire inspector, building inspector, or
other person authorized by the City to enforce the applicable code(s).
   Evidence of Vacancy shall mean any condition that on its own, or combined
with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that
the property is vacant. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to:
overgrown and/or dead vegetation; past due Utility notices and/or disconnected
Utilities; accumulation of trash junk or debris; abandoned vehicles, auto parts
and/or materials; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent
with habitation or occupancy; the presence of an unsanitary, stagnant swimming
pool; the accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail; statements
by neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or government agents; and/or the
presence of boards over doors, windows or other openings in violation of
applicable code.
   Foreclosure or Foreclosure Action shall mean the legal process by which a
mortgagee, or other lien holder, terminates or attempts to terminate a property
owner's equitable right of redemption to obtain legal and equitable title to
the real property pledged as security for a debt or the real property subject
to the lien. The legal process is not concluded until the property obtained by
the mortgagee, lien holder, or their designee, by certificate of title, or any
other means, is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an arm's length
transaction to satisfy the debt or lien.
   Mortgagee shall mean the creditor, including but not limited to, trustees;
mortgage servicing companies; lenders in a mortgage agreement; any agent,
servant, or employee of the creditor; any successor in interest; or any
assignee of the creditor's rights, interests or obligations under the mortgage
agreement; or any other person or entity with the legal right to foreclose on
the real property, excluding governmental entities.
   Owner shall mean every person, entity, or mortgagee, who alone or severally
with others, has legal or equitable title to any real property as defined by
this article; has legal care, charge, or control of any such property; is in
possession or control of any such property; and/or is vested with possession or
control of any such property. The property manager shall not be considered the
owner.
   Premises shall mean a lot, plot, or parcel of land including any structures
thereon.
   Public Nuisance shall include but not be limited to the following:
   (1)   Any physical condition or use of any premises that is regarded as a
public nuisance at common law, under the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or under
this Code; or
   (2)   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, swimming pools,
and unsafe fences or structures; or
   (3)   Any building that has unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities; or
   (4)   Any building designated by the code official as unsafe for human
habitation or use; or
   (5)   Any building that constitutes a fire hazard, or is unsafe or unsecure
to a degree that endangers life, limb or property; or
   (6)   Any premises that is unsanitary, or which is littered with rubbish or
garbage, or which has an uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
   (7)   Any building that is in a state of dilapidation, deterioration or
decay; improperly constructed; unsecured; vacant and boarded; damaged by fire
to the extent that it no longer provides shelter; in danger of collapse or
structural failure; or danger to anyone on or near the premises; or
   (8)   Any premises that contains evidence of unlawful activity to a degree
that such activity may endanger, threaten or otherwise negatively impact the
users and value of adjacent premises; or
   (9)   Any building deemed to be a dangerous building under this section or
by a similar definition elsewhere within this Code.
   (10)   Any building deemed to be abandoned.
   Property Manager shall mean any party designated by the owner as responsible
for inspecting, maintaining and securing the property as required in this
article.
   Real Property shall mean any residential or commercial land and/or
buildings, leasehold improvements and anything affixed to the land, or portion
thereof identified by a property parcel identification number, located in the
City limits.
   Registrable Property shall mean:
   (1)   Any real property located in the City, whether vacant or occupied,
that is encumbered by a mortgage subject to an ongoing foreclosure action by
the mortgagee or trustee, has been the subject of a foreclosure action by a
mortgagee or trustee and a judgement has been entered, or has been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the beneficiary of a
mortgage involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under a
deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale. The designation of a "foreclosure" property
as "registrable" shall remain in place until such time as the property is sold
to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an arm's length transaction or the
foreclosure action has been dismissed; or
   (2)   Any property that is vacant for more than thirty (30) days or any
cancellation of utility or service, whichever occurs first.
   (3)   Any property that is declared to be abandoned and/or a public
nuisance.
   Registry shall mean a web-based electronic database of searchable real
property records, used by the City to allow mortgagees and owners the
opportunity to register properties and pay applicable fees as required in this
article.
   Semi-Annual Registration shall mean six (6) months from the date of the
first action that requires registration, as determined by the City, or its
designee, and every subsequent six (6) months. The date of the initial
registration may be different than the date of the first action that required
registration.
   Utilities and Services shall mean any utility and/or service that is
essential for a building to be habitable and/or perform a service necessary to
comply with all City codes. This includes, but is not limited to, electrical,
gas, water, sewer, lawn maintenance, pool maintenance, and snow removal.
   Vacant shall mean any building or structure, that is not lawfully occupied
or inhabited by human beings as evidenced by the conditions set forth below,
including buildings ordered vacated by the code official pursuant to authority
granted by this or any other applicable code.
   (1)   In determining whether a building is "vacant", the code official may
consider any condition on its own, or combined with other conditions present,
that would lead a reasonable person to believe the property is vacant. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to:
      a.   The building is unsecured or secured by boarding or other similar
means for more than thirty (30) days;
      b.   The building is unoccupied as a result of having been declared
unsafe for occupancy by the code official pursuant to applicable provisions of
this code;
      c.   The building is deemed a dangerous building;
      d.   The building is deemed a public nuisance;
      e.   The building lacks utility services, i.e., water, sewer, electric or
natural gas.
      f.   Overgrown and/or dead vegetation;
      g.   Accumulation of trash, junk, or debris;
      h.   Abandoned vehicles, auto parts, or materials;
      i.   The absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with
habitation or occupancy;
      j.   The accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail;
      k.   Statements by neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or government
agents;
      l.   The building is not actively for rent or for sale.
   (2)   The following shall not be considered a "vacant building" for purposes
of this ordinance:
      a.   An unoccupied building, which is undergoing construction,
renovation, or rehabilitation, and which is in compliance with all applicable
ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations, and for which construction,
renovation or rehabilitation is proceeding diligently to completion;
      b.   A building which is unoccupied on a seasonal basis, but otherwise
secure and which is in compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes,
legislation, and regulations.
      c.   A building which is the subject of a probate action, action to quiet
title, or other ownership dispute and is otherwise secure and which is in
compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations.
   (3)   Commercial and industrial properties, even when actively listed for
sale with a licensed real estate broker on multiple listing services and
otherwise secure and in compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes,
legislation, and regulations, shall be considered registrable properties.
Residential properties, when actively listed for sale or for rent in the same
manner, shall not be considered registrable properties so long as they are
secure and in compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes, legislation,
and regulations. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-138. Authority And Applicability:
The Chief Building Official or their designee(s) is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce all the provisions of this article. The provisions of this
article shall apply to all properties within the City. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-
2020)
Sec. 4-139. Establishment Of A Registry:
The Chief Building Official or their designee(s) shall establish and maintain a
registry cataloging all registrable property within the City, containing the
information required by this article. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-140. Obligation To Register:
Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, every owner of registrable
property shall be required to register said property in the manner provided by
the City semi-annually. Registration shall include:
   (1)   The name, street address, telephone number, and email of each owner.
If the owner is a partnership, corporation, or voluntary unincorporated
association, the registration shall include the name, street address, telephone
number of each partner, officer, member, or shareholder. If the owner is a
corporation, the registration shall include the name, street address, and
telephone number of the registered agent therefor.
   (2)   The name, street address, and telephone number of a person designated
by the owner as the authorized agent for receiving notices of code violations
and receiving process in any court proceeding or administrative proceeding on
behalf of such owners. Such person must reside or maintain an office within
fifty (50) miles of the City of Rock Island. An owner who meets the
requirements of this subsection as to location of residence or office may
designate themselves as agent.
   (3)   The owner shall designate a property manager who either resides in or
maintain an office within fifty (50) miles of the City of Rock Island to
inspect, maintain, and secure the property. The registration shall include
name, address, twenty four (24)-hour telephone number, and email address of the
property manager. An owner who meets the requirements of this subsection as to
location of residence or office may designate himself as property manager.
   (4)   At the time of registration, the owner shall submit a vacant building
plan. The code official may prescribe a form for the plan. If the owner fails
to submit the plan as provided for by this article, the code official may
determine the plan. The plan shall include at a minimum provisions to address
the following:
      a.   A plan of action to repair any doors, windows, or other openings
which are boarded up or otherwise secured or covered by any means other than
conventional methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new
construction or similar type. The proposed repair shall result in openings
secured by conventional methods used in the design of the building or by
methods permitted for new construction of similar type with board removed.
Boarding shall be accomplished with materials and methods described by the code
official. The owner shall maintain the building in an enclosed and secure state
until the building is reoccupied or made available for immediate occupancy. If
the owner demonstrates that securing of the building will provide adequate
protection to the public, the code official may waive the requirement of an
enclosure.
      b.   For buildings and/or premises, which are determined by the code
official as being or containing public nuisances, as defined in this ordinance,
then the vacant building plan shall contain future actions to remedy such
public nuisance(s).
      c.   A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and
date of completion of repair for each improperly secured opening and nuisance
identified by the code official.
      d.   When the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the
owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition. The owner
shall ensure all necessary permits and approvals are obtained prior to
commencing demolition.
      e.   A plan of action to maintain the building and thereof in conformance
with this ordinance.
      f.   A plan of action, with a time schedule, identifying the date the
building will be habitable and occupied or offered for occupancy or sale. The
time schedule shall include date(s) of commencement and completion of all
actions required to achieve habitability. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-141. Time Of Registration:
The owner shall register the property:
   (1)   Within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice indicating that
the code official has determined a building to be a vacant building unless an
appeal is filed within the time and manner proscribed by this article. For
purposes of this subsection, the date of notice shall be the date of personal
service or hand delivery or, if notice was provided by first class mail, three
(3) days from the date of mailing.
   (2)   Within thirty (30) days of the city administrator's denial of an
appeal from the code official's determination of vacancy.
   (3)   Within thirty (30) days of purchasing a vacant building.
   (4)   Within thirty (30) days of an owner having knowledge of fact or
circumstances that he knows, or should have known, that the building has become
a vacant building within the meaning of this article. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-
2020)
Sec. 4-142. Semi-annual Renewal Of Registration:
The owner shall renew the registration every six (6) months following the date
of the first filing and pay the required semi-annual registration fee so long
as the building remains registrable. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-143. Amended Registration:
The owner shall be required to file an amended registration within thirty (30)
days of any change in the information contained in the semi-annual
registration. A new registration shall also be required for any change in
ownership. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-144. Compliance With All Other Codes While Registered:
Registration does not exonerate the owner from compliance with all applicable
codes and ordinances, including this article, nor does it preclude any of the
actions that the City is authorized to take pursuant to this or any other code
or statute. (Ord. 053-2020, 10- 12-2020)
Sec. 4-145. Termination Of Registration Obligation:
The owner of a property subject to registration shall continue to register the
property on a semi-annual basis until such time as a written request to remove
the property from registration requirements is approved by the code official.
Said request shall be made in writing on a form provided by the code official,
include the required inspection fee, and provide at a minimum the name and
contact information for a person that will provide access to the interior of
the property for an inspection. The code official, upon receipt of a request
made pursuant to this section, shall inspect the property to determine if
registration remains necessary for the property. Within thirty (30) days from
the inspection of the property, the code official shall make a determination as
to the necessity of registration of the property and notify the owner in
writing. Should the code official determine that registration remains required,
the owner shall continue semi-annual registration. An owner can file a new
request under this section after making any necessary corrections and paying
the required inspection fee at any time. A determination that a building
remains subject to registration may be appealed. Upon determination by the code
official that the property is no longer required to be registered, the property
shall be removed from the registry and no longer subject to the registration
requirements as set forth in this ordinance. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.1. Vacant Building Determination:
   (a)   The code official shall evaluate all buildings in the city that the
official believes to be unoccupied. The code official shall make a
determination for each as to whether the building is a vacant building within
the meaning of this ordinance.
   (b)   In order to conduct this evaluation, the code official is authorized
to enter upon all premises and any unsecured structures.
   (c)   The code official may determine that a building, which meets any of
the criteria that define a vacant building, shall not be regulated under this
section for a defined period of time. The code official may reach this
determination upon consideration of evidence that the circumstances, which give
rise to the building being eligible for regulation hereunder, are clearly
temporary in nature and are in the process of being addressed and regulation of
the building under this article would not serve the public health, welfare, and
safety. The code official shall make written findings with the factual basis
for this determination.
   (d)   For all vacant buildings so determined by the code official, the city
shall send notice of the determination with supporting factual findings to the
name and address of the last taxpayer of record for such parcel listed on the
most recent tax roll. Said notice of determination shall be sent first class
United States mail. Failure of mail delivery shall not excuse a person from
complying with this article. The code official may also personally serve or
cause personal service of the notice of determination. Any person making such
service shall execute an affidavit attesting to the facts of service. The code
official shall maintain an affidavit of such mailing or personal service for
each notice of determination sent.
   (e)   The code official shall cause an interior inspection of all vacant
buildings to determine compliance with city property maintenance, building,
zoning, health, fire, life safety, water, sewer and other codes. Said
inspection shall also determine the existence of any unlawful improvements to
the property and any portions of the building, including attic and basement
areas that appear to have been unlawfully occupied.
   (f)   The notice of determination described in subsection (c) and (d) above
shall set a tentative date and time for the code compliance inspection of the
interior of the vacant building in subsection (e). If after receipt of the
notice of determination, the owner does not appeal the determination, the owner
shall either confirm the tentative date for the interior inspection or shall
schedule a new date and time for same. If the owner fails to confirm the
tentative date and time for the inspection or refuses to schedule or permit the
inspection within a reasonable time, the city shall obtain an administrative
search warrant to accomplish the interior inspection.
   (g)   The notice of determination described in subsection (c) and (d) above
shall also contain:
      (1)   A statement of the obligations of the owner of a building
determined to be a vacant building;
      (2)   Information about how to register the vacant building pursuant to
this section, and;
      (3)   A notice of the owner's right to appeal the code official's
determination. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.2. Appeal Of Vacant Building Determination:
   (a)   An owner of a building determined by the code official to be a vacant
building may appeal that determination to the Property Maintenance Board.
   (b)   The appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Inspections
Division within thirty (30) days of the date of mailing of the notice of
determination.
   (c)   The filing of an appeal stays the owner's obligation to register the
building as required by this article.
   (d)   The appeal shall contain:
      (1)   A complete statement of the reasons the owner disputes the code
official's determination and shall set forth specific facts support thereof;
and
      (2)   All evidence the owner relies upon to support the appeal.
   (e)   The burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to
persuade the Board that it is more likely than not that the building is not a
vacant building.
   (f)   The Board shall decide the appeal on the facts presented by the owner
in the appeal and the code official's written determination. The Board may, but
is not required to, seek additional information from the owner.
   (g)   The Board shall send written notice of decision to the owner within
ten (10) days of receipt of the appeal.
   (h)   The Board may, upon written notice thereof to the owner, take ten (10)
additional days to decide the appeal if additional time is required for
consideration.
   (i)   If the Board fails to grant or deny an appeal within the time periods
set forth in this section, the appeal shall be deemed denied.
   (j)   A determination by the Board shall be considered to be a final
administrative determination. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.3. Inspection And Registration Of Real Property Under Foreclosure:
   (a)   Any Mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property located within the
City shall perform an inspection of the property upon default by the mortgagor
as evidenced by the filing of a foreclosure action.
   (b)   Property inspected pursuant to subsection (a) above that remains in
foreclosure shall be inspected every thirty (30) days by the mortgagee or
mortgagee's designee. If an inspection shows a change in the property's
occupancy status the mortgagee shall, within ten (10) days of that inspection,
update the occupancy status of the property registration.
   (c)   Within ten (10) days of the date any mortgagee files a foreclosure
action, the mortgagee shall register the real property with the City Registry,
and, at the time of registration, indicate whether the property is vacant, and
if so shall designate in writing a property manager to inspect, maintain, and
secure the real property subject to the mortgage under a foreclosure action.
   (d)   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain at a
minimum the name of the mortgagee, the mailing address of the mortgagee, e-mail
address, telephone number and name of the property manager and said person's
address, e-mail address, and telephone number. It shall also contain a brief
explanation of the owner's intent for the property. The property manager shall
be located within a fifty (50) mile radius of the City or Rock Island so that
they are able to respond to a property in person within one day of notice to do
so.
   (e)   At the time of initial registration each registrant shall pay a non-
refundable semi-annual registration fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for
each property. Subsequent non-refundable Semi-Annual renewal registrations of
properties and fees in the amount of three hundred dollars ($300.00) are due
within ten (10) days of the expiration of the previous registration. Said fees
shall be used to offset the costs of: (1) registration and registration
enforcement, (2) code enforcement and mitigation related to defaulted
properties, (3) post-closing counseling and foreclosure intervention limited to
owner-occupied persons in default, which may not include cash and mortgage
modification assistance, and (4) for any related purposes as may be adopted in
the policy set forth in this article.
   (f)   If the mortgage and/or servicing on a registrable property is sold or
transferred, the new mortgagee is subject to all the terms of this article.
Within ten (10) days of the transfer, the new mortgagee shall register the
property or update the existing registration. The previous mortgagee(s) will
not be released from the responsibility of paying all previous unpaid fees,
fines, and penalties accrued during that mortgagee's involvement with the
registrable property.
   (g)   If the mortgagee sells or transfers the registrable property to a
related entity or person, the new owner or transferee is subject to all the
terms of this article. Within ten (10) days of the transfer, the transferee
shall register the property or update the existing registration. Any and all
previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties, regardless of who the mortgagee was
at the time registration was required, including, but not limited to,
unregistered periods during the foreclosure process, are the responsibility of
the transferee and are due and payable with the updated registration. The
previous mortgagee will not be released from the responsibility of paying all
previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued during that mortgagee's
involvement with the foreclosed property.
   (h)   If the foreclosing or foreclosed property is not registered, or the
registration fee is not paid within thirty (30) days of when the registration
or renewal is required pursuant to this section, a late fee equivalent to five
percent (5%) of the semi-annual registration fee shall be charged for every
thirty-day period (30), or portion thereof, the property is not registered and
shall be due and payable with the registration.
   (i)   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where title is transferred to the mortgagee as well as
any properties transferred to the mortgagee under a deed in lieu of foreclosure
or by any other legal means.
   (j)   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the semi-
annual registration requirement, and the inspection, security, and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the property remains registrable property.
   (k)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
register or to modify the registration to reflect a change of circumstances as
required by this article is a violation of this article and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the City.
   (l)   If any property is in violation of this article the City may take the
necessary action to ensure compliance with and/or place a lien on the subject
property for the cost of the outstanding obligation and/or charge the
applicable fees/fines, as well as any additional cost incurred by the City in
the course of seeking compliance, to the subject property's utility (water/
refuse) account. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.4. Inspection And Registration Of Real Property That Is Not Subject
To A Mortgage In Foreclosure:
   (a)   Any owner of vacant property located within the City shall within ten
(10) days after the property becomes vacant, register the real property with
the City Registry.
   (b)   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain at a
minimum the name of the owner, the mailing address of the owner, e-mail
address, and telephone number of the owner, and if applicable, the name and
telephone number of the property manager and said person's address, e-mail
address, and telephone number.
   (c)   At the time of initial registration each registrant shall pay a non-
refundable semi-annual registration fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for
each vacant property. Subsequent non-refundable semi-annual renewal
registrations of vacant properties and fees in the amount of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) are due within ten (10) days of the expiration of the
previous registration. Said fees shall be used to offset the costs of: (1)
registration and registration enforcement, (2) code enforcement and mitigation
related to vacant properties, and (3) for any related purposes as may be
adopted in the policy set forth in this article. Said fees shall be deposited
to a special account in the City's Department dedicated to the cost of
implementation and enforcement of this article, and fulfilling the purpose and
intent of this article.
   (d)   If the property is sold or transferred, the new owner is subject to
all the terms of this article. Within ten (10) days of the transfer, the new
owner shall register the vacant property or update the existing registration.
The previous owner(s) will not be released from the responsibility of paying
all previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued during that owner's
involvement with the vacant property.
   (e)   If the vacant property is not registered, or either the registration
fee or the semi-annual registration fee is not paid within thirty (30) days of
when the registration or annual registration is required pursuant to this
section, a late fee shall be equivalent to five percent (5%) of the semi-annual
registration fee shall be charged for every thirty (30) day period, or portion
thereof, the property is not registered and shall be due and payable with the
registration. This section shall apply to the initial registration and
registrations required by subsequent owners of the vacant property.
   (f)   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the annual
registration requirement, and the inspection, security, and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the property is vacant.
   (g)   Failure of the owner to properly register or to modify the
registration to reflect a change of circumstances as required by this ordinance
is a violation of this article and shall be subject to enforcement by any of
the enforcement means available to the City.
   (h)   If any property is in violation of this article the City may take the
necessary action to ensure compliance with and place a lien on the property for
the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost incurred to the
property into compliance.
   (i)   Properties registered as a result of this section are not required to
be registered again pursuant to the foreclosure mortgage property section.
(Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.5. Maintenance Requirements:
   (a)   Properties subject to this ordinance shall be kept free of weeds,
overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any
accumulation of newspaper circulars, flyers, notices, except those required by
federal, state or local law, discarded personal items including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material,
or any other items that give the appearance that the property is neglected.
   (b)   Registrable property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior structure.
   (c)   Front, side, and rear yards, including landscaping, of registrable
property shall be maintained in accordance with the applicable code(s) at the
time registration is required.
   (d)   Registrable yard maintenance shall include, but not be limited to,
grass, ground covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative
rock or bark or artificial turf/sod. Acceptable maintenance of yards and/or
landscape shall not include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar
material.
   (e)   Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering,
irrigation, cutting and mowing of required ground cover or landscape and
removal of all trimmings.
   (f)   Pools and spas of shall be maintained so the water remains free and
clear of pollutants and debris and shall comply with the regulations set forth
in the applicable code(s).
   (g)   Failure of the mortgagee, owner, and transferees to properly maintain
the property as required by this article may result in a violation of the
applicable code(s) and issuance of a citation or notice of violation in
accordance with the applicable code of the City. Pursuant to a finding and
determination by the enforcement officer or a court of competent jurisdiction,
the City may take the necessary action to ensure compliance with this section.
   (h)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be maintained in
accordance with all other applicable code(s) of the City. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-
12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.6. Security Requirements:
   (a)   Properties subject to these Sections shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (b)   A "secure manner" shall include, but not be limited to, the closure
and locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may
allow a child to access the interior of the property or structure. Broken
windows, doors, gates, and other openings of such size that may allow a child
to access the interior of the property or structure must be repaired. Broken
windows shall be secured by re-glazing of the window.
   (c)   If a property is registrable, and the property has become vacant or
blighted, a property manager shall be designated by the mortgagee and/or owner
to perform the work necessary to bring the property into compliance with the
applicable code(s), and the property manager must perform regular inspections
to verify compliance with the requirements of this article, and any other
applicable laws.
   (d)   In addition to the above, the property is required to be secured in
accordance with all other applicable code(s) of the City.
   (e)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
inspect and secure a property subject to this article is a violation and shall
be subject to enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the
City. The City may take the necessary action to ensure compliance with this
section, and recover costs and expenses in support thereof. Such necessary
action shall include but not be limited to entering the premises, boarding the
building, and demolishing the building in whole or in part. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-
12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.7. Properties Declared Abandoned Or A Public Nuisance:
   (a)   All registrable property is at risk of being a public nuisance and if
vacant or blighted can constitute a public nuisance, the abatement of which
pursuant to the police power is hereby declared to be necessary for the health,
welfare, and safety of the residents of the City.
   (b)   No unauthorized person shall remove, tamper with, or otherwise alter
any conventional or unconventional barrier which are used to secure a building
from trespass and damage from the elements.
   (c)   No person shall occupy or permit to be occupied any boarded or
abandoned building when it is not in reasonable compliance with the provisions
of the housing code and a certificate of compliance/occupancy issued.
   (d)   No person shall enter any unoccupied building without permission in
writing from the code official; however entry may be made by the owner or the
owner's authorized representative and entry may be made by the code official
with the consent of the owner or through any remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
   (e)   The code official may enter upon the exterior of the premises for the
purposes of determining whether an unoccupied building is secure, vacant,
boarded, or abandoned.
   (f)   Entry may be made to repair, demolish, or remove such a building under
permit.
   (g)   Entry may be made by employees of or contractors for the City for the
purposes of removing trash and debris, weed and brush, and for the
installation, removal, and reading of utility meters under the authority
granted by ordinances covering those functions. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.8. Notices And Orders For An Abandoned Building Or Public Nuisance:
   (a)   Commencement of Proceedings: Whenever the code official has inspected
or caused to be inspected any building and has found and determined that the
building is a public nuisance, unsecured, and/or abandoned, they shall commence
proceedings to cause the building to be secured.
   (b)   Notice and Order: The code official shall issue a notice and order
directed to the owner of the building. The notice and order shall contain:
      (1)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
      (2)   A statement that the code official has found the building to be a
public nuisance, unsecured, and/or abandoned.
      (3)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
code official.
         a.   If the code official or has determined that the building must be
secured, the order shall require that the work be commenced immediately and
completed within such time not to exceed ten (10) days from the date of the
notice and order.
         b.   If the code official has determined that an interior inspection
must be conducted in the building, the order shall require such inspection and
state a date and time for said inspection to take place.
      (4)   A statement advising that the building, whether abandoned or
boarded, must remain unoccupied and shall be posted until such time as
inspections are completed and reasonable compliance with the Housing Code
substantiated and a certificate of occupancy issued.
      (5)   Statements advising that the building if open and unsecure or
boarded, shall have no active utilities and that those utilities shall be
discontinued as soon as practical after the order has become final and that the
responsibility to protect the plumbing from freezing shall be the owner(s).
      (6)   Statements advising:
         a.   That service by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested and regular delivery, shall be complete upon mailing;
         b.   That the order shall become final at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on
the tenth day from the date of the notice and order and that legal action or
other action as the code official shall determine necessary to secure the
building shall be commenced; that failure to complete any required action
within the time frame specified may result in such required action to be
completed at the owner's expense, a bill presented for such services and
payment for said services to secure shall be made within thirty (30) days after
billing for such services;
         c.   That any bill for such services if delinquent shall become a lien
thereof and be charged against the property and judgment may also be sought.
   (c)   Service of Notice and Order: The notice and order, and any amended or
supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner or posted
on the property as specified in the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code.
(Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.9. Failure To Secure Or Abate An Abandoned Building Or A Public
Nuisance:
Whenever the required abatement or securing is not commenced by the date of any
final notice and order issued under this article, the code official may make
necessary arrangements for authorization to bring such building or structure
into compliance with the regulations in this article and upon completion bill
all identified owner(s) for costs incurred. These costs shall reflect materials
and labor at a rate to be determined by the code official, who may also file
any such required action through the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code to
cause the repair or demolition of the building and any materials, rubble or
debris removed and the lot cleaned. The cost thereof shall be paid and
recovered in the manner provided in the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code
adopted by the City. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.10. Authority To Abate An Abandoned Building Or A Public Nuisance:
   (a)   If the enforcement officer has reason to believe that a property
subject to the provisions of this article is posing a serious threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare, the Code Enforcement Officer may
temporarily secure the property at the expense of the mortgagee or owner, and
may bring the violations before the code official as soon as possible to
address the conditions of the property. Nothing herein shall limit the City
from abating any nuisance or unsafe condition by any other legal means
available to it.
   (b)   The Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to require the
mortgagee or owner affected by this section, to implement additional
maintenance and/or security measures including, but not limited to, securing
any and all doors, windows or other openings, employment of an on-site security
guard or other measures as may be reasonably required to help prevent further
decline of the property.
   (c)   If there is a finding that the condition of the property is posing a
serious threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, then the Enforcement
Officer may direct the City to abate the violations and charge the mortgagee or
owner with the cost of the abatement.
   (d)   If the mortgagee or owner does not reimburse the City for the cost of
temporarily securing the property, or of any abatement directed by Enforcement
Officer, within thirty (30) days of the City sending the mortgagee or owner the
invoice then the City may place a lien on the subject property for the cost of
the outstanding obligation and/or charge the applicable fees/fines, as well as
any additional cost incurred by the City in the course of seeking compliance,
to the subject property's utility (water/sewer) account. In addition to filing
a lien the City may pursue financial penalties against the mortgagee or owner.
   (e)   The City may contract with an entity to implement this article, and,
if so, any reference to the Enforcement Officer herein shall include the entity
the City contract with for that purpose. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.11. Methods Of Securing An Abandoned Building Or A Public Nuisance:
   (a)   Securing: All windows and doors which are accessible from the grade,
porches, decks or exterior stairways and which allow the elements and weather
to enter shall be secured. At the option of the owner, an abandoned building or
structure may be secured through the repair and/or replacement of the
conventional equipment used for such purposes in the design of the building.
Other methods of securing a building or structure will be subject to the
approval of the code official and will be in accordance with standards on file
in the Inspection Division office. Once a building or structure is secured
following a notice and order directing such action, the building or structure
shall not be reoccupied without a certificate of compliance/occupancy issued.
If keys or working locks cannot be located, the building shall be secured at
one door only with a padlock and hasp. The owner may obtain a key upon
presentation of proper identification to the code official during normal office
hours. Costs incurred for lock and hasp shall be recovered as specified in this
Ordinance.
   (b)   Utilities Discontinued: Whenever any building or structure is
abandoned or boarded, the active utilities of gas and electricity shall be
discontinued, the water meter shall be removed and pipes drained and protected
from freezing. Should a City-authorized contractor or department be requested
to perform any required action because of failure to comply with any required
action on the part of the owner, such action will be completed at the owner's
expense and risk. The City will do no more toward the winterization of a
building which it boards than to remove the water meter and open interior
plumbing shutoff valves to allow natural draining of pipes. "Damages from
freezing" is not warranted. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.12. Recovery Of Costs Incurred By The City:
Any costs incurred by the City and billed to the owner(s) of the property
identified in a notice and order shall be due and payable without extension
within thirty (30) days of the issuance of such billing. Nonpayment of any such
demand for payment shall become a lien thereof and be charged against the
property. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.13. Refusal Of Application For Building Permits:
The code official may refuse application for building permits for the repair or
demolition of a building or structure when any liens for unpaid charges for
work accomplished by the City in the performance of the requirements of this
article are yet unpaid. A building permit may be issued when all requirements
for said permit are met and proof of payment of liens filed under this article
are presented. (Ord. 053- 2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.14. Opposing, Obstructing Enforcement Officer; Penalty:
Whoever opposes obstructs or resists any Enforcement Officer or any person
authorized by the enforcement office in the discharge of duties as provided in
this article shall be punishable as provided in the applicable code(s) or a
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 053-2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.15. Immunity Of Enforcement Officer:
Any Enforcement Officer or any person authorized by the City to enforce the
sections here within shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for
reasonable, good faith entry upon real property while in the discharge of
duties imposed by this article. (Ord. 053- 2020, 10-12-2020)
Sec. 4-145.16. Penalties:
Except insofar as other sections of this ordinance may conflict, any person,
firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be
subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred and fifty ($750.00). Each day
a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 053- 2020,
10-12-2020)
ARTICLE VI. CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY ABATEMENT
Sec. 4-146. Identification And Treatment Of Chronic Nuisance Property:
Sec. 4-146.1. Chronic Nuisance Property Prohibited:
   (a)   Chronic nuisance property is any kind of structure, edifice, building,
unit(s) thereof, or land upon which the aforementioned is affixed, where
activity involving:
      (1)   The commission of one of the behaviors listed below has occurred:
         a.   Possession of controlled substance as defined in the Illinois
controlled substances act 1 ;
         b.   Possession of cannabis as defined in the cannabis control act  2
or section 10-60 of this code;
         c.   Prostitution as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14
or section 10-61 of this code;
         d.   Keeping a place of prostitution as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-17 or section 10-63 of this code;
         e.   Gambling as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1; or
         f.   Keeping a gambling place as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/28-3; and
         g.   Any felony offense not prohibited from being considered in
determination of a nuisance property under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-
1.5.
      (2)   The commission of three (3) or more of the behaviors listed below
have occurred during any sixty (60) day period, as a result of any three (3)
separate factual events not stemming from the same incident that have been
independently investigated by any law enforcement agency.
         a.   Public indecency as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-9 or section 10-66 of this code;
         b.   Assault as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 or
section 10-20 of this code;
         c.   Battery as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3 or
section 10-20 of this code;
         d.   Repealed.
         e.   Reckless conduct as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
12-5;
         f.   Criminal housing management as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-5.1;
         g.   Theft as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-1 or
section 10-67 of this code;
         h.   Unlawful use of weapons as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-1 or section
10-30 of this code;
         i.   Unlawful possession of firearms or firearms ammunition as defined
in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1;
         j.   Mob action as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1;
         k.   Disorderly conduct as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/26-1 or section 10-26 of this code;
         l.   Resisting or obstructing a police officer as defined in 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/31-1 or section 10-32 of this code;
         m.   Attempted obstruction of justice as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/31-4;
         n.   Aiding escape as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/31-
7;
         o.   Maintaining a public nuisance as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/37-1;
         p.   Hazing as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/5;
         q.   Prohibited sales and possession of alcohol as defined in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16 or subsection 3-10(c) of this code;
         r.   Cruelty to animals as defined in section
7-115 of this code;
         s.   Vicious animal as defined in section
7-117 of this code;
         t.   Youth dance license as defined in section
8-86 of this code;
         u.   Disturbing the peace as defined in section
10-21 of this code;
         v.   Loitering for drug activities as defined in section
10-23.1 of this code.
   (b)   In no event shall any police contact that was made by, or on behalf
of, or otherwise concerns an individual with a disability be used in the
determination that a property is a chronic nuisance property when the purpose
of the contact was related to that individual's disability.
   (c)   It is unlawful for any person to employ, use, or maintain, or make
available or allow the employment, use, or maintenance of any structure, or
land upon which the aforementioned is affixed, as chronic nuisance property
within the city. Any person who fails to voluntarily cease the use or occupancy
of a structure, or land upon which the aforementioned is affixed, as required
by this article may be removed pursuant to a court order after notice and an
opportunity to be heard by the court having jurisdiction of an action brought
pursuant to this article. (Ord. 95-40, 6-5-1995; Ord. 98-37, § 1, 5-4-1998;
Ord. 056-2015, 12-14-2015)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 570.
2 720 ILCS 550.
Sec. 4-146.2. Definitions:
As used in this article, the following terms or phrases shall have the
following meanings:
   Agent: If applicable, either a resident manager or a property manager.
   Chief Of Police: Includes any person designated by the Rock Island police
chief as his or her delegate in the enforcement of this article.
   Felony Offense: An offense for which a sentence to death or to a term of
imprisonment in a penitentiary for one year or more is provided.
   Owner: Any person, agent, firm, corporation, association, or partnership
including:
      (1)   Any part owner, joint owner, tenants in common, tenant in
partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part
of the property; or
      (2)   A mortgagee in whom is vested:
         a.   All or part of the legal title to property; or
         b.   All or part of the beneficial ownership and a right to present
use and enjoyment of the premises.
   Person: Any natural person, association, partnership, or corporation capable
of owning or using property in the city.
   Structure: Any type of building, dwelling, edifice, enclosure, garage,
house, room, shed, shop, store, warehouse, or unit(s) thereof. (Ord. 95-40, 6-
5-1995; Ord. 96-90, 11-11-1996, eff. retroactive to 10-31-1996; Ord. 98-37, §
1, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 4-146.3. Procedure:
   (a)   When the Chief of Police has reasonable suspicion that a structure, or
land upon which the aforementioned is affixed, is being employed, used, or
maintained in violation of Section
4-146.1 of this Article, the Chief of Police may commence proceedings to cause
the closure of the structure. Except in cases brought pursuant to Section
4-146.6 of this Article, in the event the Chief of Police wishes to commence
proceedings:
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall notify the owner(s) of record in writing
by certified mail that the structure has been determined to be chronic nuisance
property. The notice shall contain the following information:
         a.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises on which the structure is located;
         b.   A statement that the Chief of Police has found the structure to
be in violation of this Chapter with the concise description of the conditions
leading to his/her findings.
         c.   Notice directing the owner(s) of record to respond to the Chief
of Police within ten (10) days of receipt of the written notice to discuss the
violation and possible remedies.
      (2)   In the event judicial action is commenced, a copy of the notice
shall also be served on the owner or their agent at least ten (10) days prior
to the commencement of any judicial action by the City. Serving shall be made
either personally or by mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail, postage
prepaid, with return receipt requested, to the person at their address as it
appears on the last tax assessment or as may be otherwise known to the Chief of
Police.
      (3)   In the event judicial action is commenced, a copy of the notice
shall also be served on the occupant of the structure not less than ten (10)
days prior to the commencement of any judicial proceeding and be made either
personally or by mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail, postage
prepaid, with return receipt requested, to them at the structure.
      (4)   In the event judicial action is commenced, a copy of the notice
shall also be posted upon the property not less than ten (10) days prior to the
commencement of any judicial proceedings.
      (5)   The failure of any person or owner to receive actual notice of the
determination by the Chief of Police shall not invalidate or otherwise affect
the proceedings under this Article.
   (b)   If the subject property continues as a chronic nuisance property in
spite of the giving of the notices described above, or the owner(s) of record
fails to respond to the Chief of Police within ten (10) days of receipt of the
written notice to discuss this violation, the City Attorney's office is
authorized to commence civil proceedings in court seeking the closure of the
structure as well as the imposition of civil penalties against any or all the
owners thereof, and any such other relief as may be deemed appropriate. No fees
shall be assessed for filing pleadings in connection with the enforcement of
this Article. (Ord. 95-40, 6-5-1995; Ord. 98-37, § 1, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 4-146.4. Enforcement Of Closure Order; Costs; Civil Penalty:
   (a)   In the event that a court finds that a structure constitutes "chronic
nuisance property" as defined in this Article, the court may order that it
shall be closed for any period of up to one year and that the owner(s) pay to
the City a civil penalty of up to fifty dollars ($50.00) for each day the owner
had knowledge of activities or conditions at the structure constituting a
violation of this Article.
   (b)   The court may also authorize the City to physically secure the
structure against use or occupancy in the event that the owner(s) fails to do
so within the time specified by the court. In the event the City is authorized
to secure the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the City to effect a
closure shall be made an assessment lien upon the property. As used in this
subsection, "costs" means those costs actually incurred by the City for the
physical securing of the structure.
      (1)   The Inspection Department shall prepare a statement of costs to be
used for the labor and materials.
      (2)   Liens imposed by this Article shall be collected in all respects as
property taxes.
      (3)   Any person who is assessed the costs of closure and/or a civil
penalty by the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to the
City. (Ord. 95-40, 6-5-1995; Ord. 98-37, § 1, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 4-146.5. Commencement Of Actions; Burdens Of Proof; Defenses; Mitigation
Of Civil Penalty:
   (a)   Except in a proceeding under Section
4-146.6 of this Article, if after the commencement, but prior to the trial, of
an action brought by the City pursuant to this Article, an owner specifically
stipulates with the City that they will pursue a course of action as the
parties agree will necessarily abate the conditions giving rise to the
violation(s), the City may agree to stay the proceedings. However, in the event
that the City reasonably believes the owner is not diligently pursuing the
action(s) contemplated by the stipulation, it may then apply to the court for a
release from the stay seeking relief as is deemed appropriate.
   (b)   In an action seeking the closure of a structure as chronic nuisance
property, the City shall have the initial burden of proof to show by a
preponderance of the evidence that the structure is a chronic nuisance
property.
   (c)   In an action seeking civil penalties from an owner, the City shall
have the initial burden of proof to show by a preponderance of the evidence
that the owner had knowledge of activities or conditions at the structure
constituting a violation of this Article.
   (d)   In an action brought to enforce the terms of Section
4-146.1 of this Article, evidence of a structure's general reputation and the
reputation of persons residing in or frequenting it shall be admissible.
   (e)   In establishing the amount of any civil penalty requested, the court
may consider any of the following factors, as they may be appropriate, and
shall cite those found applicable:
      (1)   The actions taken by the owner(s) to mitigate or correct the
problem at the structure;
      (2)   The financial condition of the owner;
      (3)   Whether the problem at the structure was repeated or continuous;
      (4)   The magnitude or gravity of the problem;
      (5)   The economic or financial benefit accruing or likely to accrue to
the owner(s) as a result of the conditions at the structure;
      (6)   The cooperativeness of the owner(s) with the City;
      (7)   The cost to the City of investigating and correcting or attempting
to correct the condition; and
      (8)   Any other factor deemed by the court to be relevant. (Ord. 95-40,
6-5-1995; Ord. 98-37, § 1, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 4-146.6. Closure During Pendency Of Action; Emergency Closures:
In the event that it is determined that the structure is an immediate threat to
the public safety and welfare, the City may apply to the court for such
immediate ex parte interim relief that is deemed by the Chief of Police and/or
City Attorney to be appropriate. In such an event, the notification procedures
set forth in subsection 4-146.3(a) of this Article and the limitation of
subsection 4-146.5(a) of this Article need not be complied with. The court
shall order the forthwith service of the normal pleadings together with a copy
of emergency order. (Ord. 95-40, 6-5-1995; Ord. 98-37, § 1, 5-4-1998)
Sec. 4-146.7. Relief From Closure Order:
   (a)   An owner of a structure determined to be chronic nuisance property may
obtain relief from the court's judgment if:
      (1)   They appear and pay all costs associated with the proceedings under
this Chapter; and
      (2)   They file a bond in such a place and on such form as the court may
by order direct in an amount not less than the tax-assessed value of the
structure; and keep said bond in force for a period of not less than one year
or for such longer period as the court directs; and
      (3)   They enter into a stipulation with the City that they will
immediately abate the conditions giving rise to the chronic nuisance property
and prevent the same from being established or maintained thereafter. The
stipulation will then be made part of the court's file.
   (b)   In the event that the owner violates the terms of the stipulation, the
City may thereafter apply to the court for an order awarding up to the entire
amount of the aforementioned bond to the City as a penalty as well as such
other relief, including closure for an additional period of up to one year,
that is deemed by the court to be appropriate. (Ord. 95-40, 6-5-1995; Ord. 98-
37, § 1, 5-4-1998)
ARTICLE VII. CODE HEARING DIVISION
Sec. 4-147. Definitions:
As used in this Article, unless the context requires otherwise:
   Building Inspector: A full-time, City of Rock Island employee whose duties
include the inspection or examination of structures in the City to determine if
code violations exist.
   Building Owner: The legal or beneficial owner of a structure.
   Code: Any City of Rock Island ordinance, law, housing or building code that
establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention,
sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable to
structures in the City.
   Hearing Officer: A City of Rock Island employee or an officer or agent of
the City, other than a building inspector or law enforcement officer, whose
duty it is to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists.
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence presented relevant to the
existence of a code violation.
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing
and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing.
      (4)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a code or ordinance violation exists.
      (5)   The Hearing Officer is authorized to conduct hearings relative to
building code violations as well as violations of any other ordinance of the
City that provides that the Code Hearing Officer shall have a hearing relative
to the violation of each particular ordinance. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994; Ord. 97-
04, 2-10-1997)
Sec. 4-148. Code Hearing Division Established:
The City hereby adopts division 31.1, "Building Code Violations", 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1, and all amendments and modifications thereto, and
establishes a Code Hearing Division within the Inspection Division. The
function of the Code Hearing Division is to expedite the prosecution and
correction of code violations in the manner set forth in this Article. (Ord.
94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-149. Hearing Procedures Not Exclusive:
This Article does not preclude the City from using other methods to enforce the
provisions of its code. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-150. Instituting Code Hearing Proceedings:
When a building inspector finds a code violation while inspecting a structure,
he shall note the violation on a multiple-copy violation notice and report
form, indicating the name and address of the structure owner, the type and
nature of the violation, the date and time the violation was observed, the
names of witnesses to the violation, and the address of the structure where the
violation is observed.
The violation report form shall be forwarded by the Building Inspector to the
Code Hearing Division where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of
the report, and a hearing date noted in the blank spaces provided for that
purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than thirty (30) nor
more than forty (40) days after the violation is reported by the Building
Inspector.
One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files of the
Code Hearing Division and shall be part of the record of hearing; one copy of
the report form shall be returned to the Building Inspector so that he may
prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the hearing on the
date indicated; and one copy of the report form shall be served by first-class
mail on the owner of the structure, along with a summons commanding the owner
to appear at the hearing. If the name of the owner of the structure cannot be
ascertained, or if service on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may be
made on the owner by posting or nailing a copy of the violation report form on
the front door of the structure where the violation is found, not less than
twenty (20) days before the hearing is scheduled. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-151. Subpoenas; Default:
At any time prior to the hearing date the Hearing Officer assigned to hear the
case may, at the request of the Building Inspector or the attorney for the
City, or the owner or his attorney, issue subpoenas directing witnesses to
appear and give testimony at the hearing. If on the date set for the hearing
the owner or his attorney fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the
owner in default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence
relevant to the existence of a code violation. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-152. Continuances; Representation At Code Hearings:
No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer in proceedings under
this Article except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to
protect the rights of the owner. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a
continuance. Any continuance authorized by a Hearing Officer under this Article
shall not exceed twenty five (25) days. The case for the city may be presented
by the building inspector, by any other city employee, or by an attorney
designated by the city. However, in no event shall the case for the city be
presented by an employee of the code hearing division. The case for the
dwelling owner may be presented by the owner, his attorney, or any other agent
or representative. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-153. Hearing; Evidence:
At the hearing, a hearing officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and
accept any evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of a code
violation in the structure indicated. The strict rules of evidence applicable
to judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings authorized by this article.
(Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-154. Eviction; Rights Of The Occupants:
No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or
other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an occupant
of a dwelling solely because such occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a
code hearing violation. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-155. Defenses To Code Violations:
It shall be a defense to a code violation charged under this article if the
owner, his attorney, or any other agent or representative proves to the hearing
officer's satisfaction that:
   (1)   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or at
the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or removed.
   (2)   The code violation has been caused by the current building occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the dwelling
free of such violation, the current occupants continue to cause the violations.
   (3)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner
or his agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting the
code violation. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-156. Findings, Decision, Order:
At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing whether or
not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as findings, decision and order. The findings and order shall
include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision whether or not a
code violation exists based upon the findings of fact, and an order, ordering
the owner to correct the violation or dismissing the case, in the event a
violation is not proved. If a code violation is proved, the order may also
impose the sanctions that are provided in the code for the violation proved,
including, but not limited to, the imposition of a monetary fine of not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Every
day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. A copy of the findings,
decision, and order shall be served on the owner within five (5) days after
they are issued; service shall be in the same manner as the report form and
summons are served pursuant to section 4-150 of this article. Payment of any
penalty or fine and the disposition of fine money shall be in the same manner
as set forth in this code. In addition to the fine, the appealing party in the
event the appeal is lost shall pay the sum of one hundred twenty dollars
($120.00) to cover the costs of the appeal. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994; Ord. 068-
2008, § 1, 10-20-2008)
Sec. 4-157. Review Under Administrative Review Law:
The findings, decision and order of the hearing officer shall be subject to
review in the circuit court of the county, and the provisions of the
administrative review law, and all amendments and modifications thereto; and
the rules adopted pursuant thereto are adopted and shall apply to and govern
every action for the judicial review of the final findings, decision and order
of a hearing officer under this article. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-158. Judgment On Findings, Decision, Order:
   (a)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the administrative review
law shall be a debt due and owing the city and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (b)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of the code
violation, the city may commence a proceeding in the circuit court of the
county for purposes of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision and
order. The city may consolidate multiple findings, decisions and orders against
a person in such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the action, the city shall
file a certified copy of the findings, decision and order, which shall be
accompanied by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
findings, decision and order was issued in accordance with this article and the
applicable state laws. Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may be
by any method provided by section 2-203 of the code of civil procedure or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that the total amount of
fines, other sanctions and costs imposed by the findings, decision and order
does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). If the court is
satisfied that the findings, decision and order were entered in accordance with
the requirements of this article and the applicable state law and that the
building owner had an opportunity for a hearing under this article and for
judicial review as provided in this article:
      (1)   The court shall render judgment in favor of the city and against
the building owner for the amount indicated in the findings, decision and
order, plus costs; such judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced
in the same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money; and
      (2)   The court may also issue such other orders and injunctions as are
requested by the city to enforce the order of the hearing officer to correct a
violation.
      (3)   The chief building official shall have the authority to fully or
partially vacate and/or release administrative judgments. In deciding whether
to fully or partially vacate and/or release a judgment, the chief building
official may consider any facts he determines to be relevant in making that
determination including, but not limited to, written guidelines and policies
developed by the chief building official. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994; Ord. 008-2017,
3-6-2017)
Sec. 4-159. Sanctions Applicable To Owner; Property:
The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the city as
the result of a finding of a code violation under this article shall attach to
the property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a finding of a
code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring
the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property
takes subject to the findings, decision and order of a hearing officer under
this article. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-160. Repealer:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed
insofar as they do so conflict. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994)
Sec. 4-161. Effective Date:
This article shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval, as required by law. (Ord. 94-37, 5-2-1994; Ord. 95-35, 5-1-1995)
Secs. 4-162-4-174. Reserved:
ARTICLE VIII. REGISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RENTAL HOUSING
Sec. 4-175. Purpose:
The purpose of this article is to protect the health and safety of the public
through the registration and management of both short- and long-term rental
housing. It is intended to ensure compliance with all applicable codes
including the most recently adopted version of the International Property
Maintenance Code (IPMC).
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-176. Definitions:
The terms used in this article shall have the same definitions as those used in
the International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) unless otherwise specified.
   A.   Short-Term Rental: Any rental property where the term of the rental is
less than thirty (30) days in duration. This shall not include hotels, motels,
or bed and breakfast establishments.
   B.   Long-Term Rental: Any rental property where the term of the rental is
thirty (30) days or more in duration. This shall not include extended-stay
hotels, motels, or bed and breakfast establishments. Dormitories associated
with a college, university, or similar institution of higher learning as well
as nursing homes, retirement centers, rest homes, and any similar
accommodations subject to licensing and inspection by the State or Federal
governments shall not be considered long-term rental properties subject to this
article.
   C.   Minor Infraction: In addition to items specified elsewhere in this
article, minor infractions shall include violation of IPMC sections 304.13,
305.4, 305.3, 404.2, 503.1 , 304.2, 304.3, 304.8, 302.1 , 308.1, 308, 302.3,
302.4, 302.9, and 302.2.
   D.   Moderate Infraction: In addition to items specified elsewhere in this
article, moderate infractions shall include violations of IPMC sections
404.4.1, 504.1 , 302.5, 309, 402.2, 402.3, 605.3, 605.2, 402.1, 403.1, 302.6,
605.2, 505.1, 506.2, 403.5, 505.4, 403.2, 304.4, 304.5, 304.6, 304.7, 304.9,
302.7, 303.2, and 303.1.
   E.   Major Infraction: In addition to items specified elsewhere in this
article, major infractions shall include violations of IPMC sections 504.3,
603.1 , 604.1 , 604.3, 702.4, 702.3, 702.4, 704, 603.1.2, 602.3 and 602.5
(October 1 through April 15), and 304.10.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-177. License Required:
   All rentals, both short- and long-term, shall require a license issued by
the City in order to operate. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership, corporation, or other legal entity to operate, maintain, or offer
for rent within the City a residential property without first obtaining such a
license. Licenses cannot be transferred from one property to another nor from
one property owner to another. A license renewal shall also be required on an
annual basis and shall include any necessary updated information. Compliance
with all other applicable local, State, and Federal law shall be required.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-178. License Exemption:
   No personal or professional relationship between a property owner and a
tenant shall exempt the subject property from license and registration. The
amount of rent paid by a tenant to a property owner shall have no bearing on
the requirement that a property be licensed and registered. Rent-to-own or
lease purchase properties, however, shall not require a rental license provided
that the relevant agreement between parties establishes the purchaser's
equitable interest in such property and said agreement is recorded with the
County Recorder's Office.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-179. License Application:
   Each applicant for a license or license renewal shall provide their full
name, mailing address, electronic mailing address, phone number, and proof of
ownership. Proof of active landlord insurance, including general liability
coverage for the licensed prope1iy, shall also be required at the time of
application or renewal. In the case of a limited liability company (LLC) or
similar legal entity, all registered agents shall be identified as well as the
registered office in addition to the above described contact information. Each
applicant shall also be required to identify a property manager who will be
responsible for the regular maintenance of the property. Such a person must
reside or maintain an office within fifty (50) miles of the City measured from
the municipal boundary. An owner who meets the requirements of this section as
to location of residence or office may designate themselves as manager. Any
individual or entity managing rental property on behalf of the owner of record
must hold a current real estate broker's license in accordance with the Real
Estate License Act of 2000 (225 ILCS 454), unless exempted by that Act.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-180. Inspections:
   An initial inspection shall be required prior to the issuance of a license.
The property owner shall be provided with a copy of all applicable code
standards to which they will be held. The City shall determine if the rental
property complies with all applicable municipal codes including the most
recently adopted version of the International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC).
If determined not to comply, the property owner shall have no more than thirty
(30) days to bring the property into compliance and request re-inspection
without penalty. If code deficiencies still remain, penalties shall begin to be
assessed for each applicable infraction and re-inspection. If the property
owner fails to request re-inspection within that thirty (30)-day period, it
shall be considered a minor infraction for each day beyond the thirty (30)-day
period they fail to request reinspection or notify the City that they no longer
intend to make the property available for rent. Such notification shall be made
to the City in writing. If determined to comply, a license shall be issued for
the respective property. Licensed properties shall be inspected for ongoing
compliance every five (5) years at a minimum, but may be inspected more
frequently at the City's discretion following complaints or when property
maintenance violations are observed or suspected.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-181. Inspection Access:
   All rental properties licensed under this article shall be subject to
inspection by the City upon reasonable notice to the property owner or their
designee. The property owner and/or their property manager shall be present in
person for all inspections having been given reasonable notice. Failure to be
present shall constitute missing an inspection. Missing an inspection three or
more times in a twelve(12)-month period may be used by the Building Official as
justification inspection by the City upon reasonable notice to the property
owner or their designee. The property owner and/or their property manager shall
be present in person for all inspections having been given reasonable notice.
Failure to be present shall constitute missing an inspection. Missing an
inspection three (3) or more times in a twelve (12)-month period may be used by
the Building Official as justification for license revocation. If any property
owner, manager, tenant, occupant, or other person in control of the rental unit
fails or refuses to consent to free access and entry to the property by the
City, the City may apply to the circuit court for an appropriate order
authorizing such access. Refusal by a property owner or their designee to
provide access to a property may be used by the Building Official as
justification for license revocation. Refusal by a tenant to provide access to
their respective unit shall not be used by the Building Official as
justification for the same.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-182. License Displayed:
   All tenants shall be provided a copy of the rental license for the unit in
which they are residing by the respective property owner. A copy of the rental
license for a property must be on conspicuous display at multi-unit property
for which it was issued. The license may be displayed within a unit or, in the
case of multi-unit buildings, in a common area where all tenants and visitors
to the property can reasonably see it. In the case of single-unit dwellings,
the tenant should be in possession of a copy of the rental license and able to
provide it upon request if it is not otherwise on display within the unit.
Failure to display the license, or for it to be in possession of the tenant,
shall be considered a minor infraction. Every month that there is a failure to
display a license shall be considered a separate infraction. If a license is
not on display for twelve (12) or more months, the Building Official may use
this as justification for license revocation.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-183. Penalty For Violation:
   See section
10-107.11 "Schedule of Penalties for Ordinance Violations" of this Code.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-184. License Suspension:
   When the City becomes aware of code violations at a property, the property
owner and/or their property manager shall be issued a notice of violation. A
copy of said notice shall be posted on the entrance door to the dwelling unit
or at the main common entrance in the case of a multi-unit dwelling. If the
subject property is not brought into compliance within the time allotted by the
citation, the Building Official may order that the property owner's rental
license be suspended. Suspension of a license shall be considered a major
infraction. Any property designated as a chronic nuisance by law enforcement or
emergency services or found in violation of related nuisance ordinances may be
subject to license suspension or revocation. Every month that a license remains
suspended shall be considered a separate infraction. If a license is suspended
for twelve (12) or more months, the Building Official may use this as
justification for license revocation.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-185. License Revocation And Rent Abatement:
The Building Official may revoke a rental license and order the abatement of
rents. The process for revocation and appeal is as follows.
   A.   A decision to revoke a rental license shall be made based on a
comprehensive evaluation of the severity of citations, the citation history at
the property in question, the subject license having been suspended for twelve
months or longer, and the history of citations issued at other properties owned
by the same property owner. The property has been classified as a public
nuisance by law enforcement or emergency services. Additionally, failing to
obtain permits and have work inspected during renovations or property
maintenance may also be considered.
   B.   The property owner may appeal the revocation to the Inspections
Commission by submitting the appeal in writing within fifteen (15) days of the
license revocation. If an appeal is so submitted, the revocation shall be
temporarily stayed. The Inspections Commission shall hold a hearing at their
next regularly scheduled meeting to consider the appeal. The Commission shall
consider any ongoing enforcement actions being taken by the City regarding the
subject rental property, the severity of the code violations that have been
cited, and the overall history of both the subject rental property and property
owner in their capacity as a landlord in the course of their deliberations. The
Commission shall hear from both staff and the prope1ty owner or their designee
at the hearing before voting whether or not to grant the appeal.
   C.   A decision made by the Commission may be appealed by the property owner
to the City Council in writing within fifteen (15) days of the Commission's
decision. The Council shall hold a hearing at their next regularly scheduled
meeting to consider the appeal. The Council shall make the final administrative
decision.
   D.   Once revoked, the subject property shall be ineligible to receive a new
rental license for as long as violations exist. An application for a new
license may be accepted only after all such violations are resolved.
   E.   A notice stating that the property's rental license has been revoked
and rents are thereby abated shall be posted on the entrance door to the
dwelling unit or at the main common entrance in the case of a multi-unit
dwelling. Said notice shall advise tenants that the dwelling unit is not in
compliance with local codes and cannot be legally offered for rent.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall supersede other articles that empower the
City to take more immediate action to protect public safety or when life-
threatening conditions exist. The respective enforcement procedures and
associated timelines for compliance pertaining to other codes adopted by the
City shall also not be superseded by this article.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-186. Fees:
Property owners shall pay the following license and inspections fees for both
short- and long-term rental units. Short-term rentals may additionally be
subject to hotel-motel taxes and fees.
License and Inspections Fee Cost
License and Inspections Fee                  Cost
Application Fee for First Dwelling Unit      $100.00
Application Fee Per Additional Dwelling Unit $15.00
Late Application or Late Renewal Fee         $50.00
Missed Inspection or Re-Inspection Fee       $50.00
Minor Infraction                             $100.00
Moderate Infraction                          $150.00
Major Infraction                             $200.00
 
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-187. Severability:
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or word of this
article shall be held invalid, either on its face or as applies, the invalidity
of such provision shall not affect the other sections, subsections, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or words of this article, and the application thereof; and
to that end the sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and
words of this article shall be deemed severable.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 4-188. Other Remedies:
   Nothing in this article shall prevent the City from acting under any
applicable City Code or ordinance for any violation thereof or limit the right
or authority of the City to perform inspections based on a tenant complaint or
to seek injunctive relief or other appropriate legal remedy for any violation
of such Code or ordinance.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Secs. 4-189 – 4-200. Reserved:
ARTICLE IX. SOLAR ENERGY
Sec. 4-201.   Purpose:
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the use of solar energy,
including specifications related to the land development, installation, and
construction of solar energy systems in Rock Island, subject to reasonable
conditions to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. This article
applies to solar energy systems to be installed and constructed on any
property. (Ord. 064-2019, 11-11-2019)
Sec. 4-202.   Definitions:
   Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems: A solar energy system where an array is
mounted on the ground.
   Solar Array: Multiple solar panels combined together to create one system.
   Solar Energy: Radiant energy (direct, diffused, or reflected) received from
the sun at wavelengths suitable for conversion into thermal, mechanical,
chemical, or electrical energy.
   Solar Energy Facilities: An alternative energy facility that consists of one
(1) or more ground-mounted, free-standing, or building-integrated solar
collection devices, solar energy related equipment, and other associated
infrastructure with the primary intention of generating electricity or
otherwise converting solar energy to a different form of energy for primarily
commercial or other off-site use.
   Solar Energy System: Any solar collector or other solar energy device, or
any structural design feature, mounted on a building or on the ground, and
whose primary purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and
distribution of solar energy for space heating or cooling, water heating, or
electricity. Such systems shall be considered equipment and not accessory
structures.
   Solar Thermal System: A solar energy system that directly heats water or
other liquid using sunlight. Consists of a series of tubes that concentrate
light to heat either water or a heat-transfer fluid. The heated liquid is used
for such purposes as space heating and cooling, domestic hot water, and heating
pool water.
   Tilt: The angle of the solar panels as installed per manufacturers
installation instructions. (Ord. 064-2019, 11-11-2019)
Sec. 4-203.   Applicability:
   (a)   Solar energy systems, as defined by this article, are permitted in all
zoning districts.
   (b)   This article applies to solar energy systems to be installed and
constructed after the effective date of the ordinance, and all applications for
Solar Energy Systems on existing structures or property. Solar Energy Systems
constructed prior to the effective date of this article shall not be required
to meet the requirements of this article. Any upgrades, modifications, or
changes that materially alter the size or placement of an existing Solar Energy
System shall comply with the provisions of this article.
   (c)   Installation of solar energy systems on locally designated landmarks
or within locally designated historic districts, as established by the Rock
Island Historic Preservation Ordinance, shall require the approval of the
Historic Preservation Commission and the issuance of a Certificate of
Appropriateness. (Ord. 064-2019, 11-11- 2019)
Sec. 4-204.   General Regulations:
   (a)   Solar energy systems shall comply with the International Fire Code and
National Electric Code as adopted by the city.
   (b)   Ground-mounted systems shall not be permitted in a front yard in
residential zoning districts unless the subject property is one (1) acre in
size or larger.
   (c)   Ground-mounted or freestanding solar energy systems shall not exceed
six feet (6') at the highest point of the system in residential zoning
districts unless the subject property is one (1) acre in size or larger.
   (d)   For purposes of determining compliance with building coverage
standards of the applicable zoning district, the total horizontal projection
area of all ground-mounted and free-standing solar collectors including solar
photovoltaic cells, panels, arrays, and inverters shall be considered pervious
coverage so long as pervious conditions are maintained underneath the solar
photovoltaic cells, panels, and arrays.
   (e)   Whenever possible, ground-mounted systems shall have ground cover
beneath them that consists of native plants which help to facilitate absorption
of rain water into the soil. Impermeable surfaces, gravel, turf grass, and
similar coverings are discouraged. Regardless of ground cover, access to the
system for inspection and maintenance shall be maintained. (Ord. 064-2019, 11-
11-2019)
Secs. 4-205 – 4-225. Reserved:
ARTICLE X. INSPECTIONS COMMISSION
Sec. 4-226.   Creation Of Commission:
There is created an Inspections Commission to assist the City in the
development and enforcement of building and health codes. The Commission shall
consist of nine (9) members appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City
Council. Five (5) members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. The
Commission members shall be broadly representative of the building trades
including general construction; electrical; plumbing; and heating, ventilation,
and air conditioning (HVAC). The Commission shall also include at a minimum one
(1) restaurant owner or operator and one (1) residential landlord. (Ord. 022-
2023, 6-12-2023)
Sec. 4-227.   Duties of Commission:
   The Inspections Commission shall possess advisory powers only except in
regards to their role as a code appeals board. The Commission’s duties shall
include:
   (a)   Soliciting community input on the adoption and development of codes;
   (b)   Advising the Mayor and City Council on building trades and matters to
do with property management;
   (c)   Acting as a liaison between the City, agencies, associations, and
residents relative to programs and activities;
   (d)   Making recommendations on the development of new programs and
activities;
   (e)   Monitoring and evaluating programs and activities; and
   (f)   Acting as a quasi-adjudicative board of appeals when a property owner
or tradesperson dispute the meaning or intent of an adopted code of the City
including the building, electrical, plumbing, HVAC, or health codes. Appeals
must be submitted to the City in writing no more than thirty (30) days
following the issuance of a written code interpretation or decision by the
Building Official. Appeals shall be heard by the Commission within thirty (30)
days or at their next regularly scheduled meeting following the receipt of the
appeal. A ruling on the appeal by the Commission shall constitute a final
administrative decision by the City. (Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
Sec. 4-228.   Officers:
   The Commission shall have a Chair and a Vice chair elected by the Commission
who shall each serve a term of one (1) year and shall be eligible for
reelection. The Chair shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the Chair,
the Vice Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair. If both are absent, a
temporary Chair shall be elected by those present. A staff liaison from the
Community & Economic Development Department shall serve as Secretary to the
Commission and be responsible for preparing and publishing agendas and meeting
minutes. (Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
Sec. 4-229.   Meetings:
   The Commission shall schedule regular meetings on a monthly basis. Meetings
may be cancelled for lack of business. Additional meetings may be called when
needed. All meetings shall be run in accordance with the most recent edition of
Robert’s Rules of Order as well as all applicable local, state, and Federal
codes. (Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
Sec. 4-230.   Terms of Appointment:
   (a)   The Commission members shall be divided into three (3) groups and
initially appointed for terms of one (1), two (2), and three (3) years
respectively. Thereafter, members shall be eligible to serve three (3) year
terms. Members may serve two (2) consecutive terms (including the initial
appointment term) before being required to take at least one (1) year off of
the Commission. They may thereafter serve again.
   (b)   During the interval between appointments, any vacancy occurring on the
Commission shall be filled by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council.
Each member chosen to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the
unexpired term being occupied.
   (c)   A member may be removed from the Commission, with or without cause, by
a two-thirds (2/3rds) majority vote of the Commission. Any member who does not
attend at least two-thirds (2/3rds) of the meetings in any twelve (12) month
period (or, if not in office for the entire period, such portion of the period
that the member was in office) shall be automatically deemed to have resigned
from the Commission unless waived by the affirmative two-thirds (2/3rds)
majority vote of the Commission. (Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
Secs. 4-231 – 4-240. Reserved:
Chapter 5
EMERGENCIES 1
 
Notes
  Cross references--Fire prevention and protection, Ch. 6; health, Ch. 7; motor
  vehicles and traffic, Ch. 9; police, Ch. 12; use of cable television system
  during emergencies, App. C, Art. I, § 9.
1 State law references--Emergency service and disaster operations, Ill. Rev.
  Stat. Ch. 127, § 1101 et seq.; emergency interim successors for local
  officers, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 102, § 107; continuity of government in case of
  enemy attack, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 24, § 11-59-1.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 5-1--5-15. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
Sec. 5-16. Definition:
As used in this article, the term "principal executive officer" shall mean the
mayor of the city or, in his absence or disability, the interim successor as
established pursuant to the "emergency interim executive succession act"  1  ,
as now or hereafter amended. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III)
 
Notes
1 5 ILCS 275/1.
Sec. 5-17. Established:
There is hereby created the city of Rock Island emergency services and disaster
agency, referred to in this article as the "ESDA", to prevent, minimize,
repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or manmade disaster,
in accordance with the "Illinois emergency services and disaster agency act of
1988". This ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the coordinator. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III; Ord., § 1,
6-23-1980; Ord. 90-15, § 1, 3-27-1990)
Sec. 5-18. Coordinator:
The coordinator of the ESDA shall be appointed by the principal executive
officer and shall serve until removed by same. The coordinator shall have
direct responsibility for the organization, administration, training and
operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction and control of the principal
executive officer as provided by statute. In the event of the absence,
resignation, death or inability to serve as the coordinator, the city manager
or any person designated by him shall be and act as coordinator until a new
appointment is made as provided in this article. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III;
Ord., § 2, 6-23-1980)
Sec. 5-19. Duties; Operations Plan:
The ESDA shall perform such emergency services and disaster functions within
the city as shall be prescribed in the state emergency services and disaster
plan and program prepared by the governor, and such orders, rules and
regulations as may be promulgated by the governor, and in addition shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality or
quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the Illinois ESDA act of 1988.
The ESDA shall prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials, in written
form, a clear and complete plan of the emergency operating responsibilities of
all local departments and officials and of the disaster chain of command. (1963
Code, Ch. II, Art. III; Ord., § 3, 6-23-1980; Ord. 90-15, § 1, 3-27-1990)
Sec. 5-20. Mobile Support Team:
All or any members of the ESDA may be designated as members of a mobile support
team created by the director of the state ESDA as provided by law. The leader
of such mobile support team shall be selected by the director of the state
ESDA. Any member of a mobile support team who is a city employee or officer
while serving on call to duty by the governor or the state director shall
receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, privileges and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the city, while so serving, shall be entitled to
one dollar ($1.00) per year compensation from the city as provided by law.
(Ord., § 4, 6-23-1980)
Sec. 5-21. Mutual Aid Generally:
The coordinator of the ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
municipal, county, federal or political subdivisions of the state, but no such
agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the city council and
the director of the state ESDA. (Ord., § 5, 6-23-1980)
Sec. 5-22. Emergency Action:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the ESDA to cooperate
fully with the state ESDA and with the governor in the exercise of emergency
powers as provided by law. (Ord., § 6, 6-23-1980)
Sec. 5-23. Compensation:
Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the city, if called
for training by the state director of ESDA, shall receive for the time spent in
such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members
who are not such city employees or officers shall receive for such training
time such compensation as may be established by the city council. (Ord., § 7,
6-23-1980)
Sec. 5-24. Reimbursement By State:
The state treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA prescribed by the director of the state ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the city, in response to a call by the governor or state director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law. (Ord., § 8, 6-23-1980)
Sec. 5-25. Purchases And Expenditures:
The city council may, on recommendation of the city coordinator of ESDA,
authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the city in a position
to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear
or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect
property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such
disaster, or from manmade or natural disaster. In the event of enemy caused or
other disaster, the city coordinator of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the
city, to procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be
necessary for such purposes, in view of the exigency without regard to the
statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to
municipal contracts or obligations, as authorized by the Illinois ESDA act of
1988; provided that if the city council meets at such time, he shall act
subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body. (Ord., § 9, 6-
23-1980; Ord. 90-15, § 1, 3-27-1990)
Sec. 5-26. Oath:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the ESDA shall, before
entering upon his duties, subscribe the following oath, which shall be filed
with the coordinator:
   I,                , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the City of Rock Island ESDA organization, I
will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
state by force or violence.
(Ord., § 10, 6-23-1980)
Sec. 5-27. Office:
The city manager is authorized to designate space in a city building, or
elsewhere as may be provided for by the city council, for the ESDA as its
office. (Ord., § 11, 6-23-1980)
Sec. 5-28. Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes:
The city council may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to
exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed
value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by
the Illinois ESDA act of 1988; however, the amount collectable under such levy
shall in no event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (Ord., § 12, 6-
23-1980; Ord. 90-15, § 1, 3-27-1990)
Sec. 5-29. Declaration Of Local Disaster Emergencies:
The principal executive officer, as defined in this article, may declare a
local disaster emergency when conditions justify same. In the event he is
unable to make a declaration as aforesaid because of disability or absence from
the city, then the mayor pro tem, if one has been appointed, may make such a
declaration. In the event no mayor pro tem has been appointed, then the city
manager shall be authorized to make such a declaration. In the event the city
manager is unable to make such a declaration because of disability or absence
from the city, then members of the city council shall be so authorized in order
of their seniority on said council. In the event two (2) or more council
persons have the same seniority, then the authorization shall be by
alphabetical order. (Ord., § 1, 6-16-1980)
Secs. 5-30-5-40. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. POWERS OF MAYOR IN EMERGENCIES
Sec. 5-41. Authority To Declare Emergency, Exercise Powers:
The mayor of the city is hereby granted authority to declare a state of
emergency and to exercise emergency powers as herein provided. (Ord. 83-35, §
1, 8-22-1983)
Sec. 5-42. What Constitutes State Of Emergency:
A state of emergency shall exist when there is an imminent threat to the safety
of the citizens of Rock Island; when harm may come to the lives, rights and
property of its residents if immediate action is not taken and when there
exists or may be forthcoming a significant breach of the public peace. (Ord.
83-35, § 2, 8-22-1983)
Sec. 5-43. Statement Describing Emergency:
In order to declare a state of emergency, the mayor shall sign, under oath, a
statement describing the nature of the emergency, setting forth the facts to
substantiate the finding that a state of emergency exists and declaring that
the standards of section 5-42 of this article have been met. (Ord. 83-35, § 3,
8-22-1983)
Sec. 5-44. Powers Described:
After declaring a state of emergency, the mayor may take such steps as are
necessary to protect the public safety, maintain peace and order and protect
the lives, property and rights of the citizens of Rock Island. (Ord. 83-35, §
5, 8-22-1983)
Sec. 5-45. Duration Of Emergency:
A state of emergency, as declared herein, shall expire upon declaration by the
mayor, but not later than the adjournment of the first regular or special
meeting of the city council after the state of emergency is declared. (Ord. 83-
35, § 4, 8-22-1983)
Sec. 5-46. Penalty:
Any person violating the provisions of this article or the restrictions of any
order of the mayor made under the provisions of this article shall be subject
to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 83-35, § 8, 8-22-1983)
Chapter 6
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION 2
 
Notes
  Cross references--Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch.
  4; emergencies, ch. 5; police, ch. 12; board of fire and police commissioners, §
  2-231 et seq.; fire safety in mobile home parks, § 7-93; housing code, § 7-181
  et seq.; fire protection standards for housing, § 7-205; alarm businesses,
2 systems and users, § 8-26 et seq.; junkyards, § 8-271 et seq.; firemen directing
  traffic at scene of fire, § 9-9; fire lanes, § 9-40; burning leaves, § 10-40.1;
  tampering with property, § 10-86 et seq.; parks, playgrounds and recreational
  system, § 14-16 et seq.; fire insurance tax, § 15-7; water connections for fire
  protection, § 16-60.
  State law reference--Fire prevention and protection, 65 ILCS 5/11-6-1--5/11-6-4.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 6-1. Penalty:
Except as otherwise provided, any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, or any section, clause or provision of any section
of this chapter, or who shall neglect or fail to comply with any of the
requirements hereof, or any person hindering or attempting to hinder or in any
way interfere with the Fire Chief or his designee or any fireman of the City
when in the discharge of their legitimate duties, or who shall refuse to obey
the lawful commands of the Chief or his designee or who shall conduct himself
in a noisy and disorderly manner while in the vicinity of a fire, shall, on
conviction thereof, be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (1963 Code, ch. VIII, art. I;
Ord. 82-2002, § 1, 9-23-2002)
Secs. 6-2-6-4. Reserved:
(Ord. 91-94, § 1, 8-26-1991)
Secs. 6-5-6-15. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Sec. 6-16. Fire Code Adopted 1 :
There is hereby adopted by the City for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion that
certain Code known as the International Fire Code, being particularly the 2015
edition, with its appendices, in its entirety, with its amendments which are
made a part hereof by reference, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein; and from the date on
which this article shall take effect, the provision thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the City. (Ord. 089-2011, 11-21-2011; Ord.
048-2017, 11-20-2017)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 6-17. Definitions:
   Corporate Counsel: The Attorney for the City.
   Jurisdiction: The corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 83-36, 9-12-1983; Ord.
89-45, 8-28-1989)
Sec. 6-18. Penalties:
   (a)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith; or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder; or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder and from which no appeal has been
taken; or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time
fixed herein shall, severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
The imposition of one penalty for any violations shall not excuse the violation
or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 83-36, 9-12-1983; Ord. 89-45,
8-28-1989)
Sec. 6-19. Enforcement:
   (a)   Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention: The
International Fire Code, 2015 edition, shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention in the Fire Department of the City which is hereby established and
which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (b)   Fire Marshal: The Fire Marshal in charge of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention shall be appointed by the Board of Police and Fire Commissioners on
the basis of examination to determine his qualifications.
   (c)   Inspectors: The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members
of the Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
(Ord. 83-36, 9-12-1983; Ord. 85-52, 12-23-1985; Ord. 89-45, 8-28-1989; Ord. 82-
2002, 9-23-2002; Ord. 78-2004, 7-26-2004; Ord. 089-2011, 11-21-2011; Ord. 048-
2017, 11-20-2017)
Sec. 6-20. Establishment Of Limits In Which Storage Of Flammable Or Combustible
Liquids In Outside Aboveground Tanks Prohibited:
   (a)   The limits referred to in section 5704.2.9.6 of the International Fire
Code, 2015 edition, in which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
outside, aboveground tanks is prohibited are hereby established as follows:
"everywhere within the corporate limits of the City of Rock Island, Illinois".
   (b)   The limits in which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible
liquids are prohibited are hereby established as follows: "must comply with the
City of Rock Island, Illinois, zoning ordinance". (Ord. 089-2011, 11-21-2011;
Ord. 048-2017, 11-20-2017)
Sec. 6-21. Establishment Of Limits In Which Bulk Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum
Gases Restricted:
The limits referred to in section 6104 of the International Fire Code, 2015
edition, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted are
hereby established as follows: "must comply with the City of Rock Island zoning
ordinance". (Ord. 83-36, 9-12-1983; Ord. 89-45, 8-28-1989; Ord. 92-01, 1-6-
1992; Ord. 82-2002, 9-23-2002; Ord. 78-2004, 7-26-2004; Ord. 089-2011, 11-21-
2011; Ord. 048-2017, 11-20-2017)
Sec. 6-22. Establishment Of Limits In Which Storage Of Explosives And Blasting
Agents Prohibited:
The provisions referred to in section 5604.1 of the International Fire Code,
2015 edition, in which the storage of explosives and explosive materials, other
than division 1.4G fireworks, small arms ammunition, small arms primers,
propellant actuated cartridges and smokeless propellants in magazines, shall
hereby be prohibited and are hereby established as follows: "not allowable
within the corporate limits of the City of Rock Island". (Ord. 83-36, 9-12-
1983; Ord. 89-45, 8-28-1989; Ord. 92-01, 1-6-1992; Ord. 82-2002, 9-23-2002;
Ord. 78-2004, 7-26-2004; Ord. 089-2011, 11-21-2011; Ord. 048-2017, 11-20-2017)
Sec. 6-23. Amendments:
(Rep. by Ord. 82-2002, 9-23-2002)
Sec. 6-24. Appeal:
Whenever the Chief shall disapprove an application, refuse to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Chief to the Fire Code Board of Appeals within ten (10) days from the
date of the decision. The appeal is to be filed with the City Clerk. (Ord. 83-
36, 9-12-1983; Ord. 89-45, 8-28-1989)
Sec. 6-25. System Inspection Records:
Contractors who perform installation, inspection, testing, and/or maintenance
services on fire and life safety systems within the City of Rock Island,
Illinois, are required to electronically submit all installation reports, as
well as compliant and noncompliant inspection reports, to the Fire Department,
via a method approved by the Fire Chief, within thirty (30) calendar days of
the service performed. (Ord. 004-2017, 2-6-2017)
Secs. 6-26 - 6-35. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
 
Notes
1 40 ILCS 5/4-101 et seq., 50 ILCS 740/1 et seq., 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.
  and 5/11-6-1.
Sec. 6-36. Created:
There is hereby created a Fire Department in the City. The department shall be
supervised by a Fire Chief, who shall be subject to the direction and control
of the City Manager 1 . (1963 Code art. 2-3)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4.
Sec. 6-37. Personnel:
The Fire Department shall consist of the Fire Chief and such other personnel as
the Council may from time to time direct. (1963 Code art. 8-1; Ord., 1-28-1965)
Sec. 6-38. Appointments:
   (a)   Other than the Chief of the Fire Department, who shall be appointed
and dismissed by the City Manager with the approval and consent of a majority
of the members of the City Council, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
shall have the full power of appointment and dismissal of all officers and
personnel of the Fire Department as provided by Statutes of the State. No Chief
shall be dismissed without a public hearing before the City Council if he
requests same.
   (b)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners may from time to time
designate duly appointed firemen the Assistant Chiefs, Fire Captains and Fire
Lieutenants. The Assistant Chiefs, Fire Marshal, Fire Captains and Fire
Lieutenants shall perform such additional duties as may be designated by the
Fire Chief. (1963 Code arts. 2-3, 8-1; Ord., 8-12-1963; Ord., 1-28-1965; Ord.,
7-12-1976; Ord. 85-52, 12-23-1985)
Sec. 6-38.1. Participation In State Training And Certification Programs:
   (a)   The City elects to participate in the programs provided for in the
Illinois Fire Protection Training Act.
   (b)   Before an individual may commence regular full time employment as a
firefighter, he must have been certified by the State Fire Marshal as a
firefighter II as having successfully completed an approved training course as
provided in that Act.
   (c)   The firefighter II training must be completed by the trainee within
his probationary period of fourteen (14) months, except for volunteers, part
time and paid on call personnel.
   (d)   The class specification for firefighter is hereby amended to require
that any person appointed to the Fire Department of the City shall not become a
regular member of the Fire Department unless and until he shall complete,
pursuant to the Illinois Fire Protection and Training Act, the approved
training course within fourteen (14) months of the date of his initial
employment. The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners is also directed to
incorporate those requirements into the rules and regulations of the Fire
Department. (Ord. 82-58, 12-20-1982)
Sec. 6-39. Razing Buildings, Etc. - During Fire:
The Fire Chief or Assistant Chiefs in command during a fire or, in the absence
of both, the officer in charge may direct the removal, tearing down or partial
destruction of any frame building, erection or fence, for the purpose of
checking the progress of the fire; and the officer in command shall have power
to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any building or
erection during the progress of the fire, for the purpose of extinguishing or
checking the same. (1963 Code art. 8-1)
Sec. 6-40. Razing Buildings, Etc. - By Request:
Any person who requests the Fire Department to burn a structure on privately
owned property which request is accepted by the Fire Department, shall pay the
following fee to the City Clerk:
 
(1) For a 1-story or 1 1/2-story structure $150.00
(2) For a 2-story or larger structure      300.00
 
(Ord., 10-10-1977)
Sec. 6-41. Entering Scene Of Fire:
The Fire Chief and in his absence the Assistant Chiefs may prescribe limits in
the vicinity of a fire which no person, except persons residing or owning
property therein, members of the Council or of the Fire or Police Department,
shall be permitted to enter except on the order of the officer in command. The
police officers shall aid in carrying into effect the provisions of this
section. (1963 Code art. 8-1)
Sec. 6-42. Arrests:
During the progress of a fire and for twenty four (24) hours after its
extinction, the Chief and his assistants shall have the power to arrest any
person whom they may have reasonable cause to suspect of having wilfully caused
such fire or having carried away during such fire any property belonging to
another and hidden or converted the same to his use and turn such person over
to the police authorities, who shall cause him to be securely held until the
charges can be investigated before some court having jurisdiction. (1963 Code
art. 8-1)
Sec. 6-43. Injury To Property:
No person shall wilfully injure any property belonging to the City pertaining
to the Fire Department. (1963 Code art. 8-1)
Sec. 6-43a. The Burning Of Garbage Or Rubbish:
(Rep. by Ord. 042-2009, 6-15-2009)
Sec. 6-44. Removal Of Fireworks:
The Chief of the Fire Department or his assistants may remove or have removed,
at the owner's expense, all stocks of fireworks possessed, exposed for sale or
held in stock in violation of the ordinances of the City and the laws of the
State; and he may take such action as is necessary under the laws of the State
to seize, confiscate and destroy any fireworks illegally held, possessed or
exposed for sale. (1963 Code art. 8-1)
Sec. 6-45. Obstructing View Of Fire Hydrant - Prohibited:
No person shall obstruct the view of any fire hydrant located in the City from
at least two hundred feet (200') in all directions by planting shrubbery,
flowers, trees or in any other manner obstructing said view. (1963 Code art. 8-
1)
Sec. 6-46. Obstructing View Of Fire Hydrant - Fine:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 6-45 of this
article shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00). In the event a person is accused
of a violation of section 6-45 of this article and does not wish to contest the
allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then such
person so accused may pay to the City at police headquarters a penalty in the
sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00) for and in full satisfaction of the
violation. (Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 6-47. Buildings Of Fire Department; Fire Apparatus:
No building belonging to the City and used for the purpose of the Fire
Department shall be used for any other purpose except by permission of the
Council or the Fire Chief, nor shall any person or member of the Fire
Department having in charge any engine or other fire apparatus belonging to the
City suffer or permit the same to be applied to any private use, or shall take
the same beyond the City limits, except in the immediate vicinity of the City
during the time of a fire, or in accordance with written mutual aid agreements
with other municipalities; and it shall be the duty of the Chief and his
assistants to see that the engines and other apparatus committed to their care,
and the building or buildings in which the same are deposited, and all things
in and belonging to the same, are kept neat and clean and in order for
immediate use. And it shall be their duty to preserve order and discipline at
all times among the persons under their charge and to require and enforce
strict compliance with the City ordinances and the rules and regulations of the
Fire Department. (1963 Code art. 8-1)
Sec. 6-48. Pension Fund Board - Created:
There is hereby created a Board of Trustees of the Firemen's Pension Fund,
which shall consist of five (5) members. Two members of the board shall be
appointed by the mayor, two members shall be active participants of the pension
fund who are elected from the active participants of the fund, and one member
shall be a person who is retired under the Fireman’s Pension Fund Act of 1919
or who is elected from persons retired under the Firemen's Pension Fund Act of
1919. (1963 Code art. 2-3; Ord. 08-2022, 3-14-2022)
Sec. 6-49. Pension Fund Board - Duties:
The Board of Trustees of the Firemen's Pension Fund shall have control of the
management of all funds belonging to or designated by law as part of the
Firemen's Pension Fund and of the administration of such funds as provided by
statute 1 . (1963 Code art. 2-3)
 
Notes
1 1. 40 ILCS 5/4-121 et seq.
Secs. 6-50-6-59. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICE 2
 
Notes
2 2. See also chapter 5, “Emergencies”, of this Code.
Sec. 6-60. Created:
There is hereby created in the City through its Fire Department an emergency
ambulance service solely within the corporate limits of the City, within an
area specially designated by the City Council, and within any area designated
for such service by an intergovernmental service or mutual aid agreement;
however, the Fire Chief may authorize response to requests for aid outside of
the service area in cases of major disaster. (Ord. 85-50, 12-16-1985)
Sec. 6-61. Permissible Points Of Transportation:
The ambulance service shall transport persons to: Unity Point Health - Trinity
Rock Island, Rock Island, Illinois; Unity Point Health - Trinity Moline,
Moline, Illinois; Unity Point Health - Trinity Bettendorf, Bettendorf, Iowa;
Genesis Medical Center - Illini Campus, Silvis, Illinois; Genesis Medical
Center - East Campus, Davenport, Iowa; or Genesis Medical Center - West Campus,
Davenport, Iowa, depending on the transported person's preference. The
ambulance service may be required to transport a person to the most appropriate
facility in accordance with the Trinity Emergency Medical System Standard
Operating Guidelines, or by order of online Medical Control. (Ord. 054-2017,
12-18-2017)
Sec. 6-62. Definitions:
For the purposes of this article:
   Ambulance Area: The ambulance run territory which includes the City of Rock
Island.
   Loaded Mile: Any mile or portion thereof which is incurred by an ambulance
vehicle with a patient in transit.
   Resident: Any person who normally resides within the defined ambulance area
or any person who pays Property Taxes to the City of Rock Island. (Ord. 85-50,
12-16-1985; Ord. 68-2001, 8-27-2001)
Sec. 6-63. Fees:
   (a)   For any person transported from a point within the ambulance area to a
receiving medical facility, the base rate for ambulance transport shall be as
follows:
 
 
                                                Resident  Non-
                                                          Resident
Basic Life Support (BLS)                        $900.00   $1,100.00
Advanced Life Support (ALS)                     $1,100.00 $1,300.00
Advanced Life Support 2 (ALS2)                  $1,500.00 $1,700.00
Advanced Life Support Intercept (ALS Intercept) $275.00   $275.00
 
   (b)   For any person receiving medical treatment by the Fire Department
within the ambulance area who is not transported by the ambulance, the rates
for non-transport shall be as follows:
 
                   Resident Non-
                            Resident
Treat/No Transport $300.00  $500.00
 
   (c)   In addition to the base rates listed in subsection (a), there shall be
an additional fee of Nineteen and 50/100ths Dollars ($19.50) for each loaded
mile in which any person is transported from a point within the ambulance area
to a receiving medical facility.
   (d)   Fees shall also be charged for disposable supplies. The fees for
supplies shall be in accordance with the schedule attached to Ordinance 053-
2019, codified herein, and designated as Appendix A, but are not set out at
length in this Code (See Appendix A on file with the ordinance in the office of
the City Clerk)."
   (e)   For any healthcare facility in need of lift assistance from the Fire
Department which requires no medical attention the facility shall be billed a
fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per call. (Ord. 054-2017, 12-18-2017; Ord.
053-2019, 10-28- 2019; Ord. 059-2021, 12-21-2021)
Chapter 7
HEALTH GENERALLY 3
 
Notes
3 65 ILCS 5/11-16-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 7-1. Title And Application:
This Chapter and Article II of Chapter 13 shall be known as the Health Code of
the City of Rock Island and shall be applicable to all residential, business
and commercial properties within the corporate limits of the City. The
requirements imposed by this Health Code shall be in addition to any and all
other applicable requirements imposed by other ordinances and regulations of
the City. In any case where a provision of this Health Code is found to be in
conflict with any provision of any other ordinance of the City, the provision
establishing the higher standard shall prevail. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-82)
Sec. 7-2. Purpose:
The purpose of this Health Code is to provide for the public health through
establishment of minimum standards to the end that properties, mobile home
parks and recreational areas within the City shall be free from health hazards
and shall not cause a blighting or deteriorating influence upon the City; to
regulate the disposal of garbage and refuse; and to ensure that foods served to
the consuming public are safe, wholesome and prepared in and served under
sanitary conditions. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-82)
Secs. 7-3-7-20. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 7-21. Chief Building Inspector To Enforce Laws And Ordinances:
The Chief Building Inspector or his designated representative shall be
responsible for enforcing all provisions of the Health Code. For the purpose of
carrying out responsibilities, the Chief Building Inspector or his designated
representative is hereby empowered to enter onto a premises for the purpose of
conducting an inspection where there is reasonable cause to believe that a
violation of the Health Code exists. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-82; Ord. 87-22 3-23-87)
Sec. 7-22. Appeals:
The Inspections Commission shall be empowered to hear appeals to the Health
Code. (Ord. 022-2023, 6-12-2023)
Secs. 7-23–7-35. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. FOOD AND BEVERAGES
Sec. 7-36. Scope:
   (a)   This article shall regulate food service establishments and retail
food stores, the operation of such facilities, and the licensing of food
service establishments and retail food stores within the city.
   (b)   The mayor and city council has deemed it necessary and desirable to
regulate food sanitation for health purposes, and accordingly recommended the
adoption of the following provisions. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-1990)
Sec. 7-37. License:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food service establishment, or
retail food store within the city who does not possess a valid license issued
to such person by the health authority. Only a person who complies with the
requirements of this article shall be entitled to receive or retain such a
license. A license is not transferable from one person to another person; nor
shall a license be applicable to any locations, buildings or places other than
that for which it is issued. A valid license shall be posted in each food
service establishment or retail food store. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-1990)
Sec. 7-38. Issuance Of Licenses:
   (a)   (1) Any person desiring to operate a food service establishment or
retail food store or to renew an expired license shall make a written
application for a license on forms provided by the health authority of the
city. Such application shall include the name and address of each applicant,
the location and type of proposed operation, and the signature of each
applicant, whether such applicant is an individual, firm or corporation; and if
a partnership, the names of the partners, together with their addresses, shall
be included. Payment for the license shall accompany the application form.
      (2)   If the application is for a temporary food service establishment or
a temporary retail food store, it shall also include the inclusive dates of the
proposed operations.
   (b)   Licenses for food service establishments and retail food stores are
valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance. Licenses for
temporary food service establishments or temporary retail food stores shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-1990)
Sec. 7-39. Adoption By Reference:
This article shall be interpreted and enforced in accordance with provisions
set forth in the unabridged form of the current "Illinois Food Service
Sanitation Rules And Regulations" and the "Illinois Retail Food Store
Sanitation Rules And Regulations", and any subsequent amendments or revisions
thereto, three (3) copies of each which shall be on file in the office of the
city clerk which publications are incorporated herein and adopted by reference
as part of this article. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-1990)
Sec. 7-40. Definitions:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
   Adulteration: The condition of any food:
      (1)   If it bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance in a
quantity which may render it injurious to health.
      (2)   If it bears or contains any added poisonous or deleterious
substance for which no safe tolerance has been established by regulation or in
excess of such tolerances if one has been established.
      (3)   If it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, or
decomposed substance or if it is otherwise unfit for human consumption.
      (4)   If it has been processed, prepared, packaged or held under
unsanitary conditions whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or
whereby it may have been rendered injurious to health.
      (5)   If it is in whole or in part the product of a diseased animal or
animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter.
      (6)   If its containers are composed in whole or in part of any poisonous
or deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health.
   Health Authority: The chief building inspector of the city of Rock Island or
his delegated representative. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-1990)
Sec. 7-41. Provisions For Licensing:
   (a)   License Fee Schedule:
      (1)   Annual Fee: Determined by the square footage of floor space in the
establishment including dining areas, retail sales area and storage areas.
Licenses for food service establishments and retail food stores are valid for a
period of one (1) year from the date of issuance. Establishments that fail to
apply for renewal within fifteen (15) days after expiration date will cease
food service operations.
2,000 square feet or less                               $250.00
2,001 square feet to 3,000 square feet                  300.00
3,001 square feet and over                              350.00
Mobile food units and retail sales units                100.00
Temporary food services establishment (5 day maximum)    
Temporary permit obtained 2 working days prior to event 40.00
Less than 2 working days before event                   60.00
Seasonal concession stands (potentially hazardous food) 100.00
Valid for 180 days (non- potentially hazardous food)    40.00
Schools and recognized churches                         50.00
 
      Schools serving food no more than once each week and not open to the
general public will be exempt from annual fee.
      (2)   Inspection Required: Prior to approval of an application for a
license, the health authority shall inspect the food service establishment or
retail food store to determine compliance with the requirements of this
article.
      (3)   Issuance Of License: The health authority shall issue a license to
the applicant if its inspection reveals that the applicable requirements of
this article have been met, and upon payment of the required fee.
   (b)   Renewal Of License:
      (1)   Whenever the inspection for renewal of a license reveals serious or
repeated violations of this article, the license shall not be issued and the
health authority shall notify the applicant immediately thereof. Such notice
shall also state that an opportunity for a hearing shall be provided for the
applicant at a time and place designated by the health authority. Such hearing
shall be scheduled not later than ten (10) days from the date of notice. A
license which has expired shall be removed from the establishment by the health
authority.
      (2)   Operators of food service establishments who fail to apply for
renewal within fifteen (15) days after the expiration of their current license,
will have to submit a food service establishment review application and a fifty
dollar ($50.00) fee, in addition to their regular license fee. Until the food
service review application has been evaluated and accepted by the health
authority, the food service establishment will cease food service operations.
   (c)   Reinstatement Of Suspended License: Any person whose license has been
suspended may, at any time make application for a reinspection for the purpose
of reinstatement of the permit. Within the ten (10) days following receipt of
the written request, including a statement signed by the applicant that, in his
opinion, the conditions causing suspension of the permit have been corrected,
the health authority shall make a reinspection. If the applicant is found to be
in compliance with the requirements of this article, the license shall be
reinstated.
   (d)   Revocation Of License:
      (1)   For serious or repeated violations of any of the requirements of
this article, or for interference with the health authority in the performance
of his/her duties, the license may be permanently revoked after an opportunity
for a hearing has been provided before the health code board of appeals.
      (2)   Prior to such action, the health authority shall notify the license
holder in writing, stating the reasons for which the license is subject to
revocation, and advising that the license shall be permanently revoked at the
end of five (5) days following service of such notice, unless a request for a
hearing is filed with the health authority by the license holder, within such
five (5) day period. A license may be suspended for a cause pending its
revocation or a hearing relative thereto. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-1990; Ord. 95-43, 6-
5-1995; Ord. 02-2004, § 1, 1-5-2004; Ord. 011-2009, § 1, 2-2-2009; Ord. 031-
2019, 6-10-2019)
Sec. 7-42. Notices:
A notice provided for in this Article is properly serviced when it is delivered
to the holder of the license or the person in charge, or when it is sent by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
address of the holder of the license. A copy of the notice shall be filed in
the records of the Health Authority. A completed inspection report form or a
letter are considered proper forms of notice. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-90)
Sec. 7-43. Inspections:
   (a)   Inspection Schedule: The health authority shall inspect each
establishment every six (6) months or as often as he deems necessary for the
enforcement of this article.
   (b)   Access To Establishments: The health authority, after showing proper
identification shall be permitted to enter, at any reasonable time, any food
service establishment or retail food store within the city for the purpose of
making inspections to determine compliance with this Article. The health
authority shall be permitted to examine the records of the establishment to
obtain information pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received or used,
and information concerning persons employed.
   (c)   Report Of Inspections: Whenever an inspection of a food service
establishment or retail food store is made, the findings shall be recorded on
an inspection report form. The inspection report form shall summarize the
requirements of this article and shall set forth a weighted point value for
each requirement. Inspection remarks shall be written to reference, by item
number, the item violated and shall state the correction to be made. The rating
score of the establishment shall be the total of the weighted point values for
all violations, subtracted from one hundred (100). A copy of the completed
inspection report form shall be furnished to the person in charge of the
establishment at the conclusion of the inspection. The completed inspection
report is a public document that shall be made available for public disclosure
to any person who requests it according to law. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-1990)
Sec. 7-44. Suspension Of License:
   (a)   Licenses may be suspended temporarily by the health authority for
failure of the license holder to comply with the requirements of this Article.
Whenever a license holder or operator has failed to comply with any notice
issued under the provisions of this article, the license holder or operator
shall be notified in writing that the license is, upon service of a notice,
immediately suspended and that an opportunity for a hearing will be provided if
a written request for a hearing is filed with the health authority by a license
holder. Upon suspension of the license, all operations as a food service
establishment or retail food store are to be discontinued at the direction of
the health authority. The license shall be removed from the establishment by
the health authority.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this article, whenever the
health authority finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of a
food service establishment or retail food store which in his/her judgment,
constitute a substantial hazard to the public health, he/she may without
warning, notice or hearing, issue a written notice to the license holder or
operator citing such condition, specifying the corrective action to be taken,
and if deemed necessary, such order shall state that the license is immediately
suspended, and all operations as a food service establishment or retail food
store are to be immediately discontinued. Any person to whom such an order is
issued shall comply immediately therewith, but upon written petition to the
health authority shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. (Ord. 90-39,
6-6-1990)
Sec. 7-45. Correction Of Violation:
   (a)   The completed inspection report form shall specify a reasonable period
of time for the correction of the violations found. Correction of the
violations shall be accomplished within the period specified in accordance with
the following provisions:
      (1)   If an imminent health hazard exists, including, but not limited to,
complete lack of refrigeration or sewage backup into the establishment, the
establishment shall immediately cease food service or sales operations.
      (2)   All violations of four (4) or five (5) point weighted item shall be
corrected as soon as possible, but in any event within ten (10) days following
inspection. Within fifteen (15) days after the inspection, the holder of the
license shall notify the health authority stating that four (4) or five (5)
point weighted violations have been corrected. A follow up inspection, as
deemed necessary by the health authority shall be conducted to confirm
correction.
      (3)   All one or two (2) point weighted items shall be corrected as soon
as possible, but in any event, by the time of next routine inspection.
      (4)   When the rating score of the establishment is less than sixty (60)
the establishment shall initiate corrective action on all identified violations
within forty eight (48) hours. One or more reinspections will be conducted at
reasonable time intervals to assure correction.
      (5)   In the case of temporary food service establishments, all
violations shall be corrected within twenty four (24) hours. If violations are
not corrected within twenty four (24) hours, the establishment shall
immediately cease food service operations until authorized to resume by health
authority.
   (b)   Failure of the license holder or operator to comply with any time
limits for corrections may result in cessation of food service operations. An
opportunity for hearing on the inspection findings or the time limitations, or
both, will be provided if a written request is filed with the Health Authority
within ten (10) days following cessation of operations. If a request for
hearing is received, a hearing shall be held within twenty (20) days of receipt
of the request.
   (c)   Whenever a food service establishment or retail food store is required
under the provisions of Section
7-44 to cease operations, it shall not resume operations until it is shown on
reinspection that conditions responsible for the order to cease operations no
longer exist. Opportunity for reinspection shall be offered within a reasonable
time. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-90)
Sec. 7-46. Examination And Condemnation Of Food And/Or Equipment:
   (a)   Food: Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Authority as may
be necessary to determine freedom from adulteration or misbranding. The Health
Authority may, upon written notice to the owner or person in charge, place a
hold order on any food which he determines or has probable cause to believe to
be unwholesome or otherwise adulterated or misbranded. Under a hold order, food
shall be permitted to be suitably stored. It shall be unlawful for any person
to move or alter a hold order notice or tag placed on food by the Health
Authority. Neither such food nor the containers thereof shall be relabeled,
repackaged or reprocessed, altered, disposed of, or destroyed without
permission of the Health Authority, except on an order by a court of competent
jurisdiction. After the owner or person in charge has had a hearing as provided
in this Article, and on the basis of evidence produced at such hearing, or on
the basis of examination in the event of written request for a hearing is not
received within ten (10) days, the Health Authority may vacate the hold order
or may, by written notice, direct the owner or person in charge of food which
was placed under the hold order to denature or destroy such food or bring it
into compliance with the provisions of this Article. Such order shall be stayed
if the order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within three (3)
days.
   (b)   Equipment: Where equipment used in the preparation of food products is
found to be in a state of disrepair, unsafe, unsuitable for use, or unsanitary,
such equipment shall be taken out of use and hold order placed on said items by
the Health Authority. Such equipment may not be put back into service until
written permission is obtained from the Health Authority. It shall be unlawful
for any person to move or alter a hold order notice or tag placed on equipment
by the Health Authority. Such equipment shall not be altered, disposed of, or
destroyed without permission of the Health Authority except on an order by a
court of competent jurisdiction. After the owner or person in charge has had a
hearing as provided in this Article, and on the basis of evidence produced at
such hearing or on the basis of examination in the event a written request for
a hearing is not received within ten (10) days, the Health Authority may vacate
the hold order or may, by written notice, direct the owner or person in charge
of the equipment which was placed under the hold order to remove such equipment
or bring it into compliance with the provisions of this Article. Such order
shall be stayed if the order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction
within three (3) days. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-90)
Sec. 7-47. Procedure When Infection Is Suspected:
When the Health Authority has reasonable cause to suspect possible disease
transmission by an employee of a food service establishment or retail food
store, it may secure a morbidity history of the suspected employee or make any
other investigation as may be indicated and take appropriate action. The Health
Authority may require any or all of the following measures:
   (1)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from employment in a food
service establishment or retail food store;
   (2)   The immediate closing of the food service establishment or retail food
store concerned until, in the opinion of the Health Authority, no further
danger of disease outbreak exists;
   (3)   Restriction of the employee's services to some area of the
establishment where there will be no danger of transmitting disease;
   (4)   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee or other
employees and of his or their body discharges. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-90)
Sec. 7-48. Food Handlers' Classes:
The Health Authority may order any food handler to attend an immediate food
handler training course when, in the judgment of the Health Authority, the work
habits of said food handler constitute a hazard to public health. Fees may be
charged by the Health Authority to offset any costs incurred by the Health
Authority. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-90)
Sec. 7-49. Plan Review Of Future Construction:
   (a)   Plans Submitted: Whenever a food service establishment or retail food
store is constructed or extensively remodeled, and whenever an existing
structure is converted to use as a food service establishment or retail food
store, properly prepared plans and specifications for construction, remodeling,
or conversion shall be submitted to the Health Authority for review and
approval before construction, remodeling, or conversion is begun. The plans and
specifications shall indicate the proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical
plans, and construction materials of work areas, and the type and model of
proposed fixed equipment and facilities. All applicable food service equipment
shall be of a quality as approved by the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF)
or equivalent. New equipment which is approved for a certain use by NFS shall
be automatically approved by the Health Authority. Other applicable equipment
or used equipment shall be evaluated or otherwise approved by the Health
Authority. The Health Authority shall approve the plans and specifications if
they meet the requirements of this Article. No food service establishment or
retail food store shall be constructed, extensively remodeled, or converted
except in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Health
Authority.
   (b)   Pre-Operational Inspection: Whenever plans and specifications are
required by subsection (a) of this Section to be submitted to the Health
Authority, the Health Authority shall inspect the food service establishment or
retail food store prior to the start of operations, to determine compliance
with the approved plans and specifications with the requirements of this
Article. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-90)
Sec. 7-50. Penalties:
Any person violating any provisions of this Article shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each
day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 90-39, 6-6-
90)
Sec. 7-51. Mobile Food Units:
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulation
of Mobile Food Units, which includes both food carts and food trucks, operating
within the City of Rock Island on both private and public property.
   (b)   Definitions.
      Commissary: A licensed food facility regulated by a governmental entity
where food is stored, prepared, portioned, packaged or any combination thereof,
and where such food is intended for consumption at another location or place
from a mobile food unit or food cart.
      Food Establishment: An operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves,
vends, or otherwise provides food for human consumption. For the purposes of
this section, “food establishment” does not include an establishment that
offers only pre-packaged foods that are non-potentially hazardous; a produce
stand which sells only whole, uncut fresh fruits and vegetables; an
establishment operating in a farmers market if potentially hazardous food is
not sold or distributed; a residence in which food that is non-potentially
hazardous is sold for consumption off premises to a consumer customer provided
the food is labeled so as to identify its preparer; a private home that
receives catered or home-delivered food; child care facilities or food
establishments in hospitals or health care facilities which are subject to
regulation by state agencies; supply vehicles and vending machines.
      Health Authority: The Building Official, the Health Inspector, or their
designees.
      Mobile Food Unit (MFU): One of the following.
      Food Cart: A non-motorized food establishment with limited food
preparation and assembly or commercial or commissary prepared foods. Food Carts
may be towed by a vehicle, but are generally capable of being moved by human
power.
      Food Truck: A motorized, self-propelled food establishment, or a trailer/
vehicle towed by a motorized vehicle, that is readily movable, and which
typically operates at a remote location and returns to base of operation or
commissary at the end of its daily business.
      Mobile Food Unit Zone: An area of City-owned property or public right-of-
way that has been designated as a location upon which mobile food units and
Food Carts may sell or offer for sale for immediate consumption food and/or
beverages. These zones shall be exempt from separation requirements.
   (c)   Business License Required. No person shall sell or offer for sale or
otherwise engage in a business as an MFU within the city without having first
obtained an annual business license to operate as such. The license shall be
for a period beginning on May 1 and end on April 30 of the succeeding year. An
MFU license is required in addition to any other required city business license
or state license the operator may hold or be required to hold. A separate MFU
license is required for each unit from which business is conducted. MFU
licenses are not transferable or assignable. Applications for licenses shall be
made available and processed by the City Clerk's Office.
   (d)   Application.
      (1)   Completed applications for licenses must be submitted with the
following.
         a.   Copies of the applicant's other relevant permits and proof of
liability insurance, including commercial general liability insurance coverage
and automotive liability insurance coverage.
         b.   Information identifying any commissary kitchen or other premises
where food is prepared, associated food establishments, copies of the
certificate for the certified food manager, and the name and address of and
proof of consent for the facility at which any waste fat, waste oil, waste
grease, or grey water generated by the MFU operation is disposed of shall also
be required.
         c.   Proof of consent from the property owner if the applicant will be
operating on private property.
         d.   Written authorization from the City Manager or designee if the
applicant will be operating on public property or in the public right of way
         e.   Written authorization from the Parks and Recreation Department
Director or designee if the applicant will be operating in a City Park
      (2)   Completed applications for permits must clearly identify the MFU's
proposed location(s) and hours of the operation.
      (3)   License applications shall be approved or denied by the City
Manager. If denied, the denial may be appealed to the City Council. Written
request for appeal must be received by the City Clerk's Office within thirty
(30) days of initial denial.
      (4)   The City Council may grant reasonable accommodations to applicants
from the strict application of this article. The applicant must make a written
request to the City Council that demonstrates an unnecessary hardship or unique
circumstances that prevent them from achieving compliance with certain
requirements of this article. The City Manager or designee(s) shall provide a
staff recommendation to the City Council that accompanies the request. Adjacent
property owners within two hundred and fifty feet (250') shall be notified of
the request and given the opportunity to object.
   (e)   Exceptions:
      (1)   Temporary MFUs associated with a public celebration or special
event hosted by a public body, community organization, charitable organization,
patriotic organization, religious organization, educational institution, or
similar entity are exempt from the licensing provisions of this chapter
provided the unit's participation is by invitation or contract with the host or
sponsoring organization and provided the unit displays proof of health license.
      (2)   Temporary MFUs associated with a private party on private,
residentially zoned property hosted by the owner of the property upon which the
unit is dispensing food and/or beverage, such as a graduation party, wedding
reception, birthday celebration, or similar event, are exempt from the
licensing provisions of this chapter provided the unit's participation is by
invitation or contract with the host and provided the vendor displays proof of
its health license. All applicable alcohol regulations and requirements apply.
   (f)   General Regulations:
      (1)   MFUs shall have all necessary licenses and permits from the State
and City. Such licenses and permits shall be posted on or within the MFU so as
to be readily visible to all persons conducting business with the MFU.
      (2)   MFUs shall operate in compliance with all applicable food, health,
and sanitation laws and shall comply with all health regulations regarding food
service, storage, preparation, handling, and cooking. A valid inspection
certificate or permit demonstrating health department inspection and approval
shall be posted on or within the MFU so as to be readily visible to all
customers.
      (3)   MFUs shall operate in compliance with all applicable National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) Codes and Standards including but not limited to
NFPA 96, Appendix B.
      (4)   No MFU shall dispose of fats, oil, grease or any liquid wastes
containing excessive amounts of grease in the sanitary sewer collection system
at a location other than one that has the proper grease intercepting
facilities.
      (5)   No MFU shall operate between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) AM and
six o’clock (6:00) AM. An MFU may only operate for a maximum of eight (8)
consecutive hours in a given location within a twenty-four (24) hour period.
      (6)   Operators of MFUs shall not call, shout, or make any other loud
noise toward potential customers or in any other way generate noise that would
be considered a disturbance of the peace.
      (7)   Operators of MFUs shall be responsible for keeping and maintaining
the area around and within fifty feet (50') of the MFU neat, clean, and free
from trash, debris, garbage, and other hazardous conditions at all times
regardless of whether the trash, debris or garbage originated from the
operation of the unit or was left in the area by a pedestrian passersby or
natural conditions. An MFU shall provide adequate trash receptacles for the
public for all garbage from its operation and from the accumulation of garbage
in the area around their unit at all times the unit is in operation. At the
close of its daily business the MFU must remove all garbage from the area and
properly dispose of it away from the site of its operation; the garbage shall
not simply be placed in nearby public garbage receptacles provided for use to
the general public at large.
      (8)   MFUs shall only offer single service food utensils such as cups,
straws, knives, forks, spoons, stirrers, plates, bowls, wrappers, containers,
and similar utensils, which shall be individually wrapped and kept in a clean
place and only used once in the service of food and/or beverage.
      (9)   Sales shall be conducted on the sidewalk side of the MFU whenever
possible away from moving vehicles.
      (10)   No dining area, tables, chairs, booths, benches, bar stools,
stand-up counters, or similar furniture provided by an MFU shall obstruct the
reasonable passage of pedestrians.
      (11)   No MFU shall be used for any purpose other than offering food and/
or beverage to customers.
      (12)   MFUs shall be removed from their operating location, be it public
or private property, at the end of the business day and returned to its base
business operation location or commissary.
   (g)   Location Requirements:
      (1)   MFUs on public and private property shall only operate in business
zoning districts with the exception of City Park property provided that any
permit or other requirements by the Parks and Recreation Department is received
by the applicant.
      (2)   MFUs on private property shall not encroach into any public
sidewalk or public right-of-way.
      (3)   When operating in the public right of way, MFUs shall be
immediately adjacent to business zoning districts and compliant with the
following standards:
         a.   No MFU shall park or stand within forty feet (40') of a
pedestrian crosswalk, stop sign, traffic signal light, or the intersection of
right-of-way lines.
         b.   No MFU shall park or stand within two hundred feet (200') of any
permanent food service establishment during the hours the establishment's
kitchen is operating as measured from the property line. This requirement may
be waived if the application is submitted with the written consent of the owner
of the food establishment.
         c.   MFUs that are not directly involved with the sponsor organization
shall not park or stand within two hundred feet (200') of a special event
approved by the City or taking place within a City Park as measured from the
property line.
         d.   MFUs shall operate in compliance with all other applicable
requirements the City's Parking Ordinance.
      (4)   No MFU shall conduct operations at a location or in a manner that
hinders, impedes, or restricts access to a mail box, emergency call box,
traffic control box, fire hydrant, building entrance, driveway, or critical
infrastructure.
      (5)   City reserves the right to move an MFU from any location if
determined to be necessary for the provision of emergency or public services or
in the interest of public safety, peace, and welfare.
   (h)   Alcohol Permit. No MFU shall offer any type of alcohol for sale when
operating in a public right-of-way. MFUs may only offer alcohol for sale when
approved by the Liquor Commissioner in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Only MFUs with an associated food establishment located in the City
of Rock Island are eligible. The associated food establishment must already
possess a liquor license and be in good standing.
      (2)   When approved a Special Use Permit Liquor License described in the
Liquor Ordinance shall be required. The fee for the later shall be charged to
applicant in addition to the MFU annual business license.
      (3)   All other requirements of City and State regulations must be met.
   (i)   Mobile Food Unit Zones. These zones are exempt from separation
requirements. MFU Zones include the following locations. Additional zones may
be established by the City Council by amendment to this ordinance from time to
time.
      (1)   The City-owned property at 1328 30th Street, PIN 1601117016,
otherwise known as the "Pocket Park" and the adjacent four (4) street parking
spaces on the south side of the property. No more than two (2) MFUs may operate
in this zone at any one time.
      (2)   The City-owned property at 1719-21 2nd Avenue, PIN 0735201007,
otherwise known as "Arts Alley." No more than two (2) MFUs may operate in this
zone at any one time.
   (j)   Fees. All MFUs operating within the City in any location, public or
private, shall be required to obtain an annual business license. Any permit and
associated fees required by the Parks and Recreation Department for an MFU is
operating within a City Park shall be required in addition to the annual
business license fee.
   (1)   Annual Business License Fee: one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (k)   Enforcement And Penalties. The City Manager, in coordination with the
Health
Authority, shall be responsible for enforcement of these regulations.
Violations of these regulations may result in the suspension of an MFU license
or the permanent revocation of said license. Suspensions and revocations may be
appealed to the City Council. Written request for appeal must be received by
the City Clerk's Office within thirty (30) days of suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 047-2023, 9-11-2023)
Secs. 7-52-7-55. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS 1
 
Notes
1 Motor Vehicles and Traffic, Ch. 9 of this Code.
Sec. 7-56. Definitions; Rules Of Construction:
The provisions of this Article shall be minimum requirements, adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity and
general welfare. When this article imposes greater restrictions upon the
development and operation of recreational vehicle parks than are imposed or
required by other provisions of law or ordinance, the provisions of this
article shall prevail. The following definitions shall apply herein:
   Awning: A shade structure supported by either; 1) posts or columns and a
recreational vehicle; 2) only posts or columns not attached to or supported by
the recreational vehicle; or 3) only the recreational vehicle to which it is
attached.
   Building: Any structure designed or built for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of people, animals, chattels or property of any kind. Any
structures with interior areas not normally accessible for human use shall not
be considered as buildings.
   License: A certificate required by the City of Rock Island to operate and
maintain a recreational vehicle park.
   Permit: A certificate required by the City of Rock Island to construct,
alter or expand a recreational vehicle park.
   Person: Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association or corporation.
   Recreational Activities: Those activities which may be available at a
recreational vehicle park, including but not limited to fishing, swimming,
boating, camping, picnicking, hiking, festivals, public gatherings and visiting
historical, archeological, scenic or scientific sites, for any purpose,
including but not limited to educational, vocational and religious activities
and assemblies.
   Recreational Campsite: A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle park
intended for the accommodation of either a recreational vehicle, tent or other
individual camping unit on a temporary basis. Campsites shall be of the
independent (having no sanitary facilities) or dependent (having all sanitary
facilities) type.
   Recreational Vehicle: A vehicular type of unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either
has its own motor power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle, including
but not limited to travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper and motor
home. Recreational vehicles may be of the independent (with holding tank and
sanitary facilities) or dependent (lacking some or all sanitary facilities)
type.
   Recreational Vehicle Park: A parcel of land upon which two (2) or more
recreational campsites are located, established or maintained for occupancy by
recreational vehicles, tents or other individual camping units of the general
public as temporary living quarters for recreational purposes.
   Sanitary Dumping Station: A facility used for removing and disposing of
wastes from recreational vehicle holding tanks.
   Service Building: A building in a recreational vehicle park, including but
not limited to a manager's office or residence, laundry facilities, equipment
storage, toilets and showers or other services which may be provided for the
use and benefit of those persons occupying a recreational campsite or employed
at the recreational vehicle park.
   Water Station: A facility used for filling recreational vehicle water
storage tanks. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982)
Sec. 7-57. Penalties:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each
day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-
1982)
Sec. 7-58. Administration; Appeals:
   (a)   General: This article shall be administered by the City's chief
building inspector or his designated representative except for those provisions
dealing with the construction of the recreational vehicle park roadways,
walkways, parking areas, service buildings and water, sewer and electrical
systems. During construction of a recreational vehicle park, those City
officials established as having jurisdiction shall assure that said park is
constructed to meet all requirements of this article and all other codes and
ordinances which may apply.
   (b)   Right Of Inspection: Upon a presentation of proper credentials, City
officials or their duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable
times any recreational vehicle park or building therein in the City to perform
any duty imposed upon them by this article.
   (c)   Right Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved by any ruling of any City
official charged with the administration of this article may take any appeal to
the appropriate Appeal Board as provided in other City codes and ordinances.
   (d)   Jurisdiction:
      (1)   Construction: Appeals taken from requests relating to construction
of the recreational vehicle park shall be filed with the appropriate Appeal
Board subject to the procedures established under other codes and ordinances.
      (2)   Operation: Appeals taken from requests relating to operation of the
recreational vehicle park shall be filed with the Health Code Board of Appeals,
subject to the procedures established under article II of this chapter.
      (3)   Expansion: Expansion of a recreational vehicle park and its
facilities shall be subject to authorization by the Health Code Board of
Appeals in accordance with the procedures established under section 7-60 of
this article, even if said expansion does not increase the total area of nor
change the boundaries of the recreational vehicle park. Construction of
additional systems, facilities and campsites not shown on the approved plot
plan of the recreational vehicle park shall be considered as expansions of said
park. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 7-59. Establishment Of Park:
   (a)   Authorization: Any person wishing to establish a recreational vehicle
park shall submit to the Rock Island Board of Zoning Appeals a request for
authorization in accordance with appendix A, article V of this Code. Said parks
are allowed only in B-4 (Highway Business) and C-1 (Conservation) Zoning
Districts.
      (1)   Plan Approval: Plans, specifications and/or construction drawings
for water and sewer facilities, roadways and buildings shall be prepared by a
registered Illinois engineer or architect, and shall be approved by the
appropriate City authorities prior to the authorization of the recreational
vehicle park by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Contents: A plat plan of the recreational vehicle park shall be
approved by the Public Works and Fire Department, and the chief building
inspector prior to the authorization by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Said plat
plan shall include the following information:
         a.   The area and dimensions of the park site and surrounding zoning.
         b.   The number, type, size and location of all campsites and parking
areas.
         c.   The location, right-of-way and surfaced roadway width, the
surfacing material of roadways and walkways and the interior vehicular and
pedestrian circulation patterns.
         d.   The location of all service buildings and sanitary stations.
         e.   The location of all water and sewer lines, riser pumps, all
lighting, electric and gas systems and all drainage easements.
   (b)   Permits Required: Upon receiving authorization from the Board of
Zoning Appeals, all permits required by the City shall be secured from the
appropriate authorities for construction of the recreational vehicle park.
   (c)   As-Built Drawings: If the construction of the recreational vehicle
park varies from the approved plans, specifications and/or construction
drawings, as-built drawings shall be filed with the City Engineer. If said
construction does not vary from said plans, an affidavit so certifying shall be
filed with the Director of Public Works or his designated representative. The
as-built drawings or affidavit shall be accepted by the appropriate authorities
prior to the issuance of a license for the operation of the recreational
vehicle park. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 7-60. Operation Of Park:
   (a)   License Required: The operator of a recreational vehicle park shall
secure from the City a license prior to the operation of the park. Said license
shall be issued by the City's chief building official or his designated
representative following the approval of the recreational vehicle park by the
Board of Zoning Appeals and the acceptance of the as-built drawings or
affidavit.
      (1)   Application: The application for said license shall be made with
the chief building official or his designated representative on forms provided
by his/her office.
      (2)   Fee: The annual fee for said license shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00), plus five dollars ($5.00) per recreational campsite, payable at the
City Finance Department prior to May 1 of each year. The licensing year shall
begin on May 1 of each year and end on April 30 of the next succeeding calendar
year. All licenses shall expire on said April 30 in each calendar year.
   (b)   Park Occupancy: There shall be no permanent year-round occupancy of
any recreational campsite in a recreational vehicle park. Storage of
recreational vehicles at a recreational vehicle park shall be allowed. (Ord.
82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987; Ord. 91-14, 2-11-1991; Ord. 042-2017,
11-6-2017)
Sec. 7-61. Standards For Parks:
   (a)   Water Supply: All recreational vehicle parks shall be adequately
served by City water in accordance with chapter 16, article II of this Code.
      (1)   Water Distribution System: All components of the water system of a
recreational vehicle park, including plumbing, shall be installed and
maintained to meet or exceed City specifications.
      (2)   Drinking Fountains: All outlets established for the provision of
drinking water, except for the filling of recreational vehicle water storage
tanks, shall consist of drinking fountains. Common drinking cups shall be
prohibited.
      (3)   Water Stations: There shall be at least one water station for each
one hundred (100) independent recreational vehicle campsites or portion
thereof. The fill hose shall be suspended so that no part of said hose or
appurtenances shall come in contact with the ground. A sign shall be posted at
each water station indicating that said water is potable and not to be used for
flushing wastes from recreational vehicle holding tanks.
   (b)   Sewage Disposal: All sewage disposal for recreational vehicle parks
shall be through the City sanitary sewer system in accordance with chapter 16,
article III of this Code.
      (1)   Sewage System: All components of the sewage system of a
recreational vehicle park, including plumbing, shall be installed and
maintained to meet or exceed City specifications.
      (2)   Sanitary Dumping Stations: There shall be at least one sanitary
dumping station with a hose for each one hundred (100) independent recreational
vehicle campsites or portion thereof. A sign shall be posted at each sanitary
dumping station indicating that the water is not potable and is to be used only
for flushing wastes from recreational vehicle holding tanks.
   (c)   Bathhouses: Bathhouses to be used by both sexes simultaneously shall
be divided into two (2) parts, separated by a tight partition and designated
for men and women. The entrances and exits shall be screened to break the line
of sight. Floors, drains, walls, partitions, fixtures, lighting and ventilation
shall be installed to conform with all City requirements. All walls, floors and
partitions shall be constructed of nonabsorbent materials. Bathhouses shall
provide both cold and hot (90 degrees Fahrenheit) water at a rate of three (3)
gallons per minute.
      (1)   Toilets: One toilet for each sex shall be provided for each twenty
(20) dependent recreational campsites or portion thereof.
      (2)   Lavatories: Two (2) lavatories for each sex shall be provided for
each twenty (20) dependent recreational campsites or portion thereof.
      (3)   Showers: One shower for each sex shall be provided for each twenty
(20) dependent recreational campsites or portion thereof.
      (4)   Cleanliness: All bathhouses shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (d)   Laundry Facilities: When provided for the occupants of a recreational
vehicle park, all laundry facilities shall be properly installed and connected
to the water, sewer and electrical or gas systems of the recreational vehicle
park. For each one washing machine provided, there shall be provided at least
one dryer. Commercial dryers having capacities of greater than one washing
machine load may be substituted for the number of single-load dryers needed to
equal the capacity of the multi-load dryer.
   (e)   Refuse Disposal: The storage, collection and disposal of refuse
produced in a recreational vehicle park shall be conducted in accordance with
chapter 13, article II of this Code. The recreational vehicle park shall be
kept free of litter and accumulations of rubbish, and shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition at all times.
   (f)   Food Service: Food service, when provided, shall be conducted in
accordance with article III of this chapter.
   (g)   Buildings: All buildings in recreational vehicle parks shall be
constructed to meet or exceed all City requirements.
   (h)   Roadways And Parking Areas: All roadways and parking areas in a
recreational vehicle park shall be of a dustless surface.
      (1)   One-Way Roads: One-way roads with no parking shall have a surface
width of at least twelve feet (12'), and those with parking on one side shall
have a surface width of at least eighteen (18) feet. One-way streets with
parking on both sides shall not be allowed.
      (2)   Two-way roads. Two-way roads with no parking shall have a surface
width of at least eighteen (18) feet, those with parking on one side shall have
a surface width of at least twenty-five (25) feet and those with parking on
both sides shall have a surface width of at least thirty-one (31) feet.
      (3)   Parking areas. There shall be provided within the recreational
vehicle park at least one parking space for each two (2) recreational campsites
in addition to the required parking pads. Parking lots, spaces and access
drives shall comply with the size requirements for parking areas in the Rock
Island zoning ordinance.
   (i)   Campsites. Each recreational campsite shall contain at least one
thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet.
      (1)   Density. Each campsite shall be occupied by no more than one
recreational vehicle or two (2) tents at any one time.
      (2)   Setbacks. No part of any recreational vehicle (including awnings),
tent or other vehicle shall be placed on a recreational campsite closer than
two (2) feet to any campsite line.
      (3)   Parking pad. Each recreational campsite shall contain a stabilized
vehicular parking pad of shell, marl or other suitable, dustless material.
      (4)   Vehicle restriction. At no time shall a dependent recreational
vehicle be allowed to occupy an independent recreational campsite.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 4), 9-27-82)
Cross reference--Zoning, App. A.
Sec. 7-62. Safety.
   (a)   Building and fire codes. The grounds, buildings, utilities, roadways,
parking areas and other facilities shall be constructed, maintained and used in
accordance with applicable city building codes and fire prevention regulations.
   (b)   Flammable liquids. Liquid petroleum gas, fuel oil, gasoline and other
flammable liquids shall be handled and used in a safe manner and shall not be
stored inside or beneath any recreational vehicle.
   (c)   Play areas. Play equipment, when provided for children, shall be
designed for safety, maintained in good repair and placed in play areas which
are free from hazards.
   (d)   First aid. All recreational vehicle parks shall have at least one
first aid kit as recommended by the American Red Cross, one stretcher and one
blanket for each two hundred (200) recreational campsites or portion thereof.
   (e)   Communications. One telephone for each two hundred (200) recreational
campsites or portion thereof shall be reasonably available for emergency use.
The telephone numbers of the city police, state police, city fire department,
ambulance service and the closest hospital shall be posted near each telephone.
   (f)   Fires. Fires shall be allowed only in facilities such as fireplaces,
fire pits or charcoal braziers which have been provided for such purposes. No
fire shall be left unattended, left unextinguished upon vacation of a
recreational campsite or fueled by materials which emit dense smoke or
objectionable odors.
   (g)   Park location. Recreational vehicle parks shall not be located in
areas which may create health hazards for occupants of the park. Surface water
within two hundred (200) feet of park buildings shall be drained, filled,
constructed or treated to prevent mosquito breeding.
   (h)   Vector control. Implementation of preventive and control measures for
use against flies, ticks, mosquitoes, rats and other potential vectors of
disease in and around recreational areas shall be in accordance with city
health codes.
   (i)   Occupant list. A register containing the names, addresses and
recreational vehicle license plate numbers of all recreational vehicle park
occupants shall be maintained at all times.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 5), 9-27-82)
Cross references--
   Buildings and building regulations,
Ch. 4 ;
   fire prevention and protection,
Ch. 6 .
Sec. 7-63. Recreational activities.
   (a)   Setbacks. All buildings used for recreational activities provided at
recreational vehicle parks shall meet the setback requirements for such uses
identified in the Rock Island zoning ordinance.
   (b)   Swimming facilities. All swimming areas and related facilities for use
by recreational vehicle park occupants shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with state regulations.
   (c)   Boating facilities. All boating facilities for use by recreational
vehicle park occupants shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with
state regulations.
   (d)   Fish cleaning facilities. All fish-cleaning facilities for use by
recreational vehicle park occupants shall provide for the storage and safe
disposal of fish offal and shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
   (e)   Stables. All stables for use by recreational vehicle park occupants
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be conducted in
accordance with all applicable provisions of the Rock Island zoning ordinance.
   (f)   Commercial establishments. No commercial establishments shall be
operated in any recreational vehicle park except those operated by the owner of
said park for recreational vehicle park occupants. Such establishments shall
present no visible evidence from any street outside the recreational vehicle
park of their commercial character which would attract customers other than
recreational vehicle park occupants.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 6), 9-27-82)
Cross reference--
Zoning, App. A .
Secs. 7-64--7-80. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. MOBILE HOME PARKS 1
 
Notes
1 Cross references--Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 4; motor vehicles
  and traffic, Ch. 9; subdivisions, App. B.
Sec. 7-81. Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in this article:
   Accessory structure: A building subordinate to and smaller than a principal
building or mobile home, that contributes to the comfort, convenience or
necessity of the occupants of the principal building or mobile home.
   Chief building inspector: The legally designated health authority or his
authorized representative of the City of Rock Island, Illinois.
   Dependent mobile home: A dependent mobile home means a trailer home which
does not have a toilet or bath or shower facilities, and its use is prohibited
in the mobile home park.
   Independent mobile home: A transportable non-permanent single-family
dwelling unit suitable for year-round occupancy and containing the same water
supply, waste disposal, heating and air conditioning and electrical
conveniences as conventional housing, meeting "American Standard Association"
construction requirements of 1974, and subsequent revisions. This definition is
not intended to include travel trailers or camper buses.
   Mobile home: Any transportable nonpermanent single-family dwelling unit
suitable for year-round occupancy.
   Mobile home lot: A parcel of land designed for the exclusive use of the
occupants of a single mobile home, also termed mobile home space.
   Mobile home park: An area of land upon which two (2) or more occupied mobile
homes are harbored either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and this
shall include any building used or intended for use as a part of the equipment
of such mobile home parks. This does not include travel trailers, tents or
camper buses.
   Mobile home stand: That part of an individual lot which has been reserved
for the placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures or additions.
   Permit: A written permit issued by the chief building inspector or his
designated representative permitting the mobile home park to operate under this
health code and regulations promulgated hereunder.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 1(A--L)), 9-27-82; Ord. No. 87-22, § 22, 3-23-
87)
Sec. 7-82. Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each
day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 13), 9-27-82)
Sec. 7-83. License--Required.
No person shall establish, maintain, conduct or operate a mobile home park
without first obtaining a license from the chief building inspector or his
designated representative. Such license shall be issued for one (1) year and
shall expire April 30th of each year, and the license shall be renewed from
year to year upon payment of the annual license fee provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 2), 9-27-82; Ord. No. 87-22, § 22, 3-23-87; Ord.
No. 89-16, § 1, 4-3-89)
Cross reference--Licenses and business regulations, Ch. 8.
Sec. 7-84. Same--Application.
In order to obtain a permit to construct, or an original license to operate a
mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the chief building inspector or
his designated representative a written application containing the following
information:
   (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names and
addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names and
addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation.
   (2)   Location and legal description of the tract of land drawn to a scale
of one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet, or larger.
   (3)   The proposed and existing facilities in the park for water supply,
sewage, garbage and waste disposal.
   (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which the
park is to be located.
   (5)   All corners and points of tangency are to be marked by galvanized or
wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least eighteen (18) inches in length
and not less than one-half inch in diameter. The top of the pipe or bar is to
be set level with the established grade of the ground.
   (6)   The plat plans of the park drawn to a scale of one hundred (100) feet
to an inch, building plans and specifications for existing buildings and
facilities, and the plans and specifications for new buildings and facilities
or the proposed alterations in existing facilities, all showing compliance with
the provisions of this article. The plat plans shall contain, among other
things, the following:
      a.   The date on which such plat plans were prepared.
      b.   An arrow indicating north.
      c.   All mobile home sites properly numbered on the plat plans.
      d.   Complete information regarding storm sewers.
      e.   Storm water runoff.
   (7)   A copy of the soil and water conservation district report prepared in
accordance with 70 ILCS 405/22.02a.
   (8)   Where a permit to construct as well as an original license to operate
is sought by the applicant, request therefor shall be made in the same
application. Each application for a permit to construct or for an original
license shall be accompanied by an application fee amounting to twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) for each ten (10) acres of land, or fraction thereof, proposed
to be used as a park. Each application fee shall be paid to the city clerk, and
said application fee, once so paid, shall not be refunded.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 3), 9-27-82; Ord. No. 87-22, § 22, 3-23-87)
Sec. 7-85. Inspections.
   (a)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit to construct a park or an
application for a license to operate and maintain the same, the chief building
inspector or his designated representative shall, if the park is or the
proposed park will be, in conformity with this health code, issue a permit to
construct or an original license, as the case may be.
   (b)   If the application for a permit to construct or a license is declined,
the chief building inspector or his designated representative of the city shall
give the reasons therefor in writing to the applicant, and if the objections
can be corrected, the applicant may amend his application and resubmit it for
approval.
   (c)   If a permit to construct a park has been issued, the applicant shall,
upon completion thereof, notify the chief building inspector or his designated
representative, who shall then inspect the park and, if completed in accordance
with the accepted application, shall issue the license. The chief building
inspector, the electrical inspector, the plumbing inspector and the director of
public works or his designated representative must approve any new park or
additions before the inspection division will issue a permit to construct or a
license for occupancy of the mobile home park.
   (d)   No change in any methods of water supply, sewer, drainage, garbage, or
waste disposal, and no change in the plat plan, shall be made without first
making a written application to the chief building inspector or his designated
representative and receiving a permit therefrom. Such application shall be made
in the way and manner hereinbefore set forth, except that a fee of ten dollars
($10.00) for each ten (10) acres or fraction thereof used to harbor mobile
homes thereon shall accompany each application for a permit to alter such
mobile home park. No application fee shall be required to accompany an
application for a permit to alter a park where such alternative involves only a
reduction in the number of trailer spaces to a smaller number than the license
for such park currently authorizes. Such change or changes shall comply with
such safety and sanitary code, building code, rules and regulations as are
applicable thereto.
   (e)   Such permit does not relieve the applicant from securing any other
permit required or from complying with any other ordinance of the city. No
license to operate and maintain a park shall be issued if such a park is, at
such time, in violation of any other ordinance or regulation of the city.
   (f)   The annual license fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus
five dollars ($5.00) for each mobile home lot. All fees shall be made payable
to the city.
   (g)   Applications for license shall be made to the chief building inspector
or his designated representative, who shall issue a license upon compliance by
the applicant with the provisions of this health code and of any regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, and for any other applicable legal requirements. No
license or permit shall be transferable.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 4), 9-27-82; Ord. No. 87-22, §§ 22, 25, 2-23-87;
Ord. No. 91-14, § 9, 2-11-91)
Sec. 7-86. Notices; hearings; orders.
   (a)   Whenever the chief building inspector or his designated representative
determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a
violation of any provision of this article or of any regulation adopted
pursuant hereto, he shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person
to whom the permit was issued, as provided in this section. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance.
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires.
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require,
provided that a notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly served
upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered mail
to his last known address, or when he has been served with such notice by any
other method authorized or required by the laws of this state.
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this health code and with regulations adopted
pursuant hereto.
   (b)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provisions of this article, or of any regulation
adopted pursuant hereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the health code board of appeals, provided that such person shall
file in the office of the chief building inspector or his designated
representative a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a
statement of the grounds therefor within ten (10) days after the day the notice
was served. The filing of the request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of
the notice and of the suspension, except in the case of an order issued under
subsection (e). Upon receipt of such petition, the chief building inspector or
his designated representative shall set a time and place for such hearing and
shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing, the
petitioner shall be given an opportunity to speak and to explain why such
notice should be modified or withdrawn.
   (c)   After such hearing, the health code board of appeals shall make
findings as to compliance with the provisions of this article and regulations
issued thereunder and shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or
withdrawing the notice which shall be served as provided by subsection (a)(4).
Upon failure to comply with any order sustaining or modifying a notice, the
permit of the mobile home park affected by the order shall be revoked.
   (d)   The proceedings at such hearing including the findings and decision of
the health code board of appeals, together with a copy of every notice and
order related thereto, shall be entered as a matter of public record in the
office of the chief building inspector or his designated representative, but
the transcript of the proceedings need not be transcribed unless judicial
review of the decision in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by
laws of this state is undertaken.
   (e)   Whenever the chief building inspector or his designated representative
finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the
public health, he may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the
existence of such emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he may
deem necessary to meet the emergency, including suspension of the permit.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but, upon petition to the chief building
inspector or his designated representative, shall be afforded a hearing before
the health code board of appeals as soon as is possible.
   (f)   Any person operating or constructing a mobile home park may petition
the health code board of appeals of the city for a variance from any of the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 5), 9-27-82; Ord. No. 87-22, § 22, 3-23-87)
Sec. 7-87. Environmental, open space and access requirements.
   (a)   Existing parks generally. Mobile home parks in existence on the
effective date of this article which have less than the minimum prescribed
requirements, other than the minimum area requirements specified in subsection
(b), may continue to operate.
   (b)   Minimum area. Present existing mobile home parks shall not be required
to comply with the minimum area requirements of this article, but may continue
to operate with their present minimum area of not less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet for each mobile home.
   (c)   Expansion of size. Any presently existing mobile home park that
expands the size of its park shall be required to comply with all provisions of
this article in its expanded area.
   (d)   Nonresidential uses. No part of any mobile home park shall be used for
nonresidential purposes, except such uses that are required for the direct
servicing and well-being of park residents and for the maintenance of the park.
No commercial establishments shall be operated in any mobile home park except
those operated by the owner of said park for mobile home park occupants. Such
establishments shall present no visible evidence from any street outside the
mobile home park of their commercial character which would attract customers
other than mobile home park occupants.
   (e)   Setbacks on lot. Mobile homes shall be located not less than six (6)
feet from the side or rear lot lines of the lot upon which they are located,
except that every mobile home lot shall contain a minimum of three thousand two
hundred (3,200) square feet. All roofed-over patios and carports shall be
considered part of the mobile home.
   (f)   Accessory structures. Any accessory structure, such as storage
facilities, shall be located no closer than three (3) feet from the side and
rear lot lines and three (3) feet from the mobile home and shall be located on
the rear half of said lot.
   (g)   Setbacks, buffer strips and screening generally.
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be located at least twenty-five (25) feet
from any park property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway
and at least ten (10) feet from any other park property boundary lines. There
shall be a minimum distance of ten (10) feet between an individual mobile home,
including accessory structures attached thereto, and adjoining pavement of park
street or sidewalk, or common parking area, or other common areas accessible to
park residents.
      (2)   All mobile home parks shall be provided with a screening buffer
strip at least five (5) feet wide along all property boundary lines. Where
effective visual barriers do not already exist along such property boundary
lines, the buffer strip shall be furnished with screening at least five (5)
feet high and consisting of fences, free-standing walls or natural growth. Such
growth shall consist of a compact growth of shrubbery, hedges, evergreens or
other suitable plantings sufficient to serve as an effective visual screen.
Fences or walls shall not contain electrical charges, barbed wire, broken glass
or other material designed to do bodily harm.
   (h)   Park street system.
      (1)   General requirements. All mobile home parks shall provide safe,
continuous and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or
roads to each mobile home space. For purposes of this article, all streets or
roads providing such vehicular access hereinafter shall be referred to as the
"park street system" and shall be maintained by the owner or owners.
      (2)   Primary entrance road. The primary entrance road connecting the
park street system with a public street or road shall have a minimum road
pavement width of forty-one (41) feet, where guest parking is permitted at both
sides; or a minimum road pavement width of twenty-five (25) feet, where guest
parking is limited to one side. Where the primary entrance road is more than
one hundred (100') feet long and does not provide access to abutting property
within such distance, the minimum road width may be twenty-five (25) feet,
provided parking is prohibited at both sides.
      (3)   Secondary entrance road. In addition to the required primary
entrance road, all parks containing twenty-five (25) or more acres in total
area and/or providing for the accommodation of two hundred (200) or more mobile
homes, shall have at least one secondary entrance road connecting the park
street system with a public street or road. Such a secondary road or roads
shall have a minimum pavement width of twenty-five (25) feet. Where primary and
secondary entrance roads connect to the same public street or road, there shall
be a minimum separation of one hundred-fifty (150) feet between such access
points. Where this is not feasible or possible, there shall be clearly marked
one-way entrance and exit lanes with a pavement width of each one-way road to
be at least twenty-two (22) feet.
      (4)   Interior streets. All interior streets in the park street system
shall have a minimum pavement width of twenty-five (25) feet on a twenty-five-
foot right-of-way with parking prohibited on one side. Dead-end streets shall
be limited in length to one thousand (1,000) feet and shall be provided at the
closed end with a turn-around having an outside roadway diameter of at least
sixty-five (65) feet.
      (5)   Street construction standards shall meet the requirements of the
subdivision regulations of the city, as amended.
   (i)   Parking: Off street parking shall be provided in all parks for the use
of park occupants. Such areas shall be furnished at the rate of at least two
(2) car spaces for each mobile home. Parking bays shall be located so as to
provide convenient access to mobile home spaces.
   (j)   Sidewalks: All mobile home parks shall provide safe, convenient, four
foot (4') wide, four inch (4") Portland cement concrete sidewalks on both sides
of the park street system between each mobile home space and all open areas,
community structures and facilities.
   (k)   Electricity; Lighting: All mobile home parks shall be furnished with
sufficient electrical systems and lighting units at the owner's expense, so
spaced and equipped with luminaires placed at such mounting heights as will
provide the average maintained levels of illumination for the safe movement of
pedestrians and vehicles at night, as required for city streets by the city
engineer, with guidance from Iowa-Illinois Gas and Electric Company. (Ord. 82-
28, § 1(Art. V, § 6), 9-27-1982)
Sec. 7-88. Water Supply:
Each mobile home park shall be provided with a complete water distribution
system adequate to serve the entire park. The water system must be designed in
conformance with the requirements of the subdivision regulations of the city
and meet the approval of the director of public works or his designated
representative. (Ord. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 7), 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, § 21, 3-
23-1987)
Sec. 7-89. Storm Water Sewers:
Each mobile home park shall be provided with a storm water sewer adequate to
serve the entire park. The storm water sewer system must be designed in
conformance with the requirements of the subdivision regulations of the city
and meet the approval of the director of public works or his designated
representative. (Ord. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 8), 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, § 21, 3-
23-1987)
Sec. 7-90. Sanitary Sewers:
Each mobile home park shall provide for the satisfactory disposal of sanitary
sewage. The sanitary sewer system shall be designed in conformance with the
requirements of the subdivision regulations of the city and meet the approval
of the director of public works or his designated representative. (Ord. 82-28,
§ 1(Art. V, § 9) 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 7-91. Refuse Disposal:
Disposal of refuse shall follow the standards set in chapter 13, article II of
this code. (Ord. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 10), 9-27-1982)
Sec. 7-92. Electrical Distribution System:
The electrical system of each mobile home park shall be adequate to serve the
entire park. The electrical system shall be designed in conformance with the
requirements of the subdivision regulations of the city and approved by the
director of public works or his designated representative. (Ord. 82-28, § 1
(Art. V, § 11), 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 7-93. Safety:
Liquid petroleum gas, fuel oil, gasoline and other flammable liquids shall be
handled and used in a safe manner and shall not be stored inside or beneath any
mobile home. (Ord. 82-28, § 1(Art. V, § 12), 9-27-1982)
Secs. 7-94-7-110. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. ANIMALS 1 , 2
 
Notes
  See § 10-8, "Cruelty To Animals Generally"; § 10-24 et seq., noisy animals; §
1 10-49, "Steel Jaw Animal Traps"; § 10-69, "Police Dogs"; and § 13-29, "Dead
  Animals", of this code.
2 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 7-111. Definitions:
The following words and phrases when used in this article shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   Animal: Any animal, poultry, bird, reptile or any other dumb creature.
   Animal Control Officer: Any person employed by the department for the
purpose of enforcing the animal control ordinances or having custody and
control of the city animal shelter and of animals therein.
   Cat: Except where specifically distinguished means all animals of the feline
species of the age of four (4) months or older.
   Dangerous Animal:
      (1)   Any animal that while off the property of the owner or custodian of
the animal unreasonably and without provocation causes injury to a person.
      (2)   Any animal that while off the property of the owner or custodian of
the animal unreasonably attacks another domestic animal and causes serious
physical injury or death to the other domesticated animal.
      (3)   Any animal that while on the property of the owner or custodian of
the animal unreasonably attacks and causes injury to any person lawfully on the
property of the owner.
      (4)   Any animal that has been declared a "potentially dangerous animal"
on one prior occasion and is found upon investigation of a new incident to meet
the definition of "potentially dangerous animal".
   Department: The department of police, unless otherwise specifically
designated.
   Distemper And Hepatitis Injection: Any serum approved by the Illinois
department of agriculture for temporary use.
   Dog: Except where specifically distinguished means all animals of the canine
species of the age of four (4) months or older.
   Impounded: Taken into the custody of the public pound in the city or county
where the animal is found.
   Inoculation: The injection, subcutaneously or in such other manner as may be
approved by the department of agriculture of the state of Illinois pursuant to
the rabies control law of the state, of antirabic vaccine meeting standards
approved by the department of agriculture of the state and by the United States
department of agriculture.
   Licensed Veterinarian: Any veterinarian duly licensed as such under the laws
of the state of Illinois or of any other state which by law provides for the
licensing of veterinarians.
   Owner Or Keeper: Any person who shall harbor, suffer or permit any dog or
cat to remain on any premises within the city of Rock Island under his charge.
   Potentially Dangerous Animal:
      (1)   Any individual animal while off the premises of the owner and when
unmuzzled, unleashed, or not under the control of its owner or custodian that
behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would believe poses a serious and
unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or death to a person or
domesticated companion animal.
      (2)   Any animal that has been declared a "dangerous animal" on a prior
occasion and that is not properly confined as required by subsection
7-117.1(g) of this division.
      (3)   Any animal that while off the property of the owner or custodian of
the animal unreasonably attacks and causes injury to another domesticated
animal.
   Serious Physical Injury: Shall include, but not be limited by, those
instances where the animal causes serious or permanent disfigurement or
impairment to health or bodily function of the person.
   Unreasonably Attacks: An unprovoked and unjustified direct action on the
part of the animal.
   Vicious Animal:
      (1)   Any animal that unreasonably attacks a person and causes serious
physical injury or death.
      (2)   Any animal that has been declared a "dangerous animal" on one prior
occasion and is found upon investigation of a new incident to meet the
definition of "dangerous animal". (Ord., § 1, 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-25, § 1, 9-13-
1982; Ord. 82-41, § 1(§§ 1-3), 10-25-1982; Ord. 86-56, § 1, 11-3-1986; Ord. 87-
81, § 1, 10-5-1987; Ord. 082-2005, § 1, 10-17-2005)
Sec. 7-112. Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this article shall be
seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is accused of a violation
of this article and does not wish to contest said allegation prior to the time
a complaint is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to the
city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of seventy five dollars
($75.00) for and in full satisfaction of said violation. (Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord.
82-41, 10-25-1982; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-136, 12-9-1991)
Sec. 7-113. Animal Shelter:
The city shall provide and maintain an animal shelter suitable for the
impounding and maintenance of dogs and other small animals and shall provide
and furnish all other equipment and supplies required in the application of
this article. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-114. Animal Control Officer:
   (a)   The animal control officer shall be a staff member of the department
of police and shall be directly responsible to the chief of police in the
application of this article and the proper operation of the animal shelter.
   (b)   The animal control officer shall have the care, custody, control and
supervision of the animal shelter of the city and of all dogs and other animals
confined and impounded therein, and shall have the care, custody and control of
all trucks and other paraphernalia used by him or his assistants in and about
the impounding of such animals.
   (c)   All assistants assigned to the animal control program shall be
responsible to the chief of police in the performance of their duties.
   (d)   While on duty, the animal control officer shall wear a star engraved
"Animal Control Officer" as an emblem of this authority.
   (e)   The animal control officer shall deliver to the city collector, at
least once a month, all fees and monies collected by him.
   (f)   Any animal kept or found under the conditions which may constitute a
violation of this article may be impounded by the animal control officer.
(Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982; Ord. 86-56, 11-3-1986)
Sec. 7-115. Cruelty To Animals 3 :
No person or owner shall beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve, overwork or
otherwise abuse any animal. Each owner shall provide for each of his animals:
   (1)   Sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome food and water, served
in clean containers with water available at all times;
   (2)   Adequate shelter and protection from the weather; and
   (3)   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering.
No owner shall abandon any animal where it shall become a public charge or
shall suffer injury, hunger, or exposure. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-
1982; Ord. 86-56, 11-3-1986)
 
Notes
3 510 ILCS 70/3.01.
Sec. 7-116. Running At Large Generally:
   (a)   No domestic animal, including horses, mules, cattle, sheep, swine or
domestic fowl of the species of geese, ducks, turkeys, chickens, or barn fowl
shall be suffered, allowed or permitted to run at large within the corporate
limits of the city.
   (b)   Any dog shall be considered to be running at large if it leaves the
premises of its owner or keeper when not under control by leash and a person
who is willing and able to prevent the dog from violating any city ordinance.
   (c)   Every animal running at large within the city shall be liable for
impoundment at any time by the animal control officer or other member of the
police department. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982; Ord. 54-2003, § 1,
7-14-2003)
Sec. 7-117. Vicious Animal:
   (a)   Vicious Animals Prohibited: No person shall own, keep, harbor, sell,
abandon or give away any animal found to be vicious within the city, whether or
not owned by such person, except to relinquish the animal for impoundment. Such
animals are hereby declared nuisances and are subject to impoundment and
disposal.
   (b)   Declaration Of Animal As Vicious; Procedure:
      (1)   The Rock Island animal control officer or law enforcement officer
shall classify an animal as vicious if probable cause is established to believe
that the animal falls within the definition set forth for "vicious animal" in
section
7-111, "Definitions", of this division.
The finding must be based upon: a) the written complaint of a citizen who is
willing to testify that the animal has acted in a manner which causes it to
fall within the definition of "vicious animal" as set forth in section
7-111, "Definitions", of this division; or b) the reports filed with the police
department; or c) actions of the animal witnessed by any animal control
officer, law enforcement officer or citizen who is willing to sign a complaint;
or d) other substantial evidence.
      (2)   Once the police department becomes aware of an animal that may fall
within the definition of "vicious animal" as set forth in section
7-111, "Definitions", of this division, an animal control officer or law
enforcement officer shall complete an investigation within five (5) days with a
recommendation as to whether or not the animal should be declared a vicious
animal. During this investigation, the animal shall be impounded at the animal
control facility utilized by the city.
This recommendation shall be reviewed with the animal's owner and the victim,
or the victim's parent/guardian if the victim is a minor. If either of these
persons should choose to dispute this recommendation, the investigating animal
control officer or law enforcement officer shall consult: a) a board certified
veterinarian who deals with this type of animal or b) an animal behavior
specialist who has completed a certification or formal program of education in
a related field or has at least three (3) years of work experience in a related
field. The opinion of the veterinarian or animal behavior specialist shall then
be used as the basis for the final recommendation on the declaration of the
animal as vicious. The results of this consultation shall also be shared with
the animal's owner and the victim, or the victim's parent/guardian if the
victim is a minor.
      (3)   The declaration of vicious animal shall be in writing and shall be
served on the owner in one of the following methods: a) certified mail to the
owner's last known address; or b) personally; or c) if the owner cannot be
located by one of the first two (2) methods, by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in this community.
      (4)   The declaration shall state at least: a) the description of the
animal; b) the name and address of the owner of the animal, if known; c) the
whereabouts of the animal, if it is not in the custody of the owner; d) the
facts upon which the declaration of vicious animal is based; e) the
availability of a hearing in case the person objects to the declaration, if a
request is made within ten (10) days; f) the fact that the animal shall be
euthanized after ten (10) days unless a request for a hearing has been
received.
   (c)   Owner Objection To Declaration Of Vicious Animal: If the owner of the
animal wishes to object to the declaration of the animal as vicious:
      (1)   The owner may request a hearing before the code hearing officer, by
submitting a written request and payment of a twenty five dollar ($25.00)
administrative review fee to the city within ten (10) days of receipt of the
declaration, or within ten (10) days of the publication of the declaration
pursuant to subsection (b)(3) of this section.
      (2)   If the code hearing officer finds that there is insufficient
evidence to support the declaration, it shall be rescinded, and the penalty to
be imposed thereby annulled.
      (3)   If the code hearing officer finds sufficient evidence to support
the declaration, the owner may appeal such decision to the circuit court,
pursuant to the administrative review act.
      (4)   During the entire appeal process, the animal shall be held at the
animal control facility utilized by the city.
   (d)   Disposal Of Vicious Animal: Following a declaration of an animal as
vicious and the exhaustion of any appeal therefrom, the animal shall be
euthanized. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-25, 9-13-1982; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982;
Ord. 86-56, 11-3-1986; Ord. 87-81, 10-5-1987; Ord. 082-2005, § 1, 10-17-2005)
Sec. 7-117.1. Dangerous Animal:
   (a)   Directing Animal With Malicious Intent Prohibited: No person having
control or custody of any animal shall, without legal cause or justification,
direct, encourage, cause, allow, or otherwise aid or assist any animal to
threaten, charge at, intimidate, bite, harass, menace, or attack any person
within the city.
   (b)   Use Of Animal In Illegal Activity Prohibited: No person shall keep,
maintain, control, or retain custody of any animal in conjunction with or for
the purpose, whether in whole or in part, of aiding, abetting, or conducting
any illegal activity or committing any crime within the city.
   (c)   Directing Animal With Malicious Intent Toward Public Safety Officer
Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person having control or custody of
any animal to allow, direct, encourage, cause, or otherwise aid or assist any
animal to threaten, charge, intimidate, bite, harass, menace, or attack any
public safety officer engaged in the conduct of his/her duties.
   (d)   Probable Cause To Impound: Any law enforcement officer having probable
cause to believe that any person has violated the restrictions against
dangerous animals hereof may impound or cause to be impounded any animal. Such
impoundment shall be subject to all other sections of this article and all
other municipal laws, including, but not limited to, this code dealing with
animals.
   (e)   Declaration Of Animal As Dangerous; Procedure:
      (1)   The Rock Island animal control officer or law enforcement officer
shall classify an animal as dangerous if probable cause is established to
believe that the animal falls within the definition set forth for "dangerous
animal" in section
7-111, "Definitions", of this division.
The finding must be based upon: a) the written complaint of a citizen who is
willing to testify that the animal has acted in a manner which causes it to
fall within the definition of "dangerous animal"; or b) reports filed with the
police department; or c) actions of the animal witnessed by any animal control
officer, law enforcement officer or citizen who is willing to sign a complaint;
or d) other substantial evidence.
      (2)   Once the police department becomes aware of an animal that may fall
within the definition of "dangerous animal" set forth in section
7-111, "Definitions", of this division, an animal control officer or law
enforcement officer shall complete an investigation within five (5) days with a
recommendation as to whether or not the animal should be declared a dangerous
animal. During this investigation, the animal shall be impounded at the animal
control facility utilized by the city.
This recommendation shall be reviewed with the animal's owner and the victim,
or the victim's parent/guardian if the victim is a minor. If either of these
persons should choose to dispute this recommendation, the investigating animal
control officer or law enforcement officer shall consult: a) a board certified
veterinarian who deals with this type of animal or b) an animal behavior
specialist who has completed a certification or formal program of education in
a related field or has at least three (3) years of work experience in a related
field. The opinion of the veterinarian or animal behavior specialist shall then
be used as the basis for the final recommendation on the declaration of the
animal as a dangerous animal. The results of this consultation shall also be
shared with the animal's owner and the victim, or the victim's parent/guardian
if the victim is a minor.
      (3)   The declaration of dangerous animal shall be in writing and shall
be served on the owner in one of the following methods: a) certified mail to
the owner's last known address; or b) personally; or c) if the owner cannot be
located by one of the first two (2) methods, by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in this community.
      (4)   The declaration shall state at least: a) the description of the
animal; b) the name and address of the owner of the animal, if known; c) the
whereabouts of the animal, if it is not in the custody of the owner; d) the
facts upon which the declaration of dangerous animal is based; e) the
availability of a hearing in case the person objects to the declaration, if a
request is made within ten (10) days; f) the restrictions placed on the animal
as a result of the declaration of dangerous animal; g) the penalties for
violation of the restrictions, including the possibility of destruction of the
animal, and/or fining of the owner.
   (f)   Owner Objection To Declaration Of Dangerous Animal: If the owner of
the animal wishes to object to the declaration of dangerous animal:
      (1)   The owner may request a hearing before the code hearing officer, by
submitting a written request and payment of a twenty five dollar ($25.00)
administrative review fee to the city within ten (10) days of receipt of the
declaration, or within ten (10) days of the publication of the declaration
pursuant to subsection (e)(3) of this section.
      (2)   If the code hearing officer finds that there is insufficient
evidence to support the declaration, it shall be rescinded, and the
restrictions imposed thereby annulled.
      (3)   If the code hearing officer finds sufficient evidence to support
the declaration, the owner may appeal such decision to the circuit court,
pursuant to the administrative review act.
   (g)   Confinement Of Dangerous Animal: Following a declaration of dangerous
animal and during the entire appeal process or after the exhaustion of any
appeal therefrom, it shall be unlawful for the person owning or having care of
such dangerous animal to allow or permit such animal to: 1) be unconfined on
the premises of such person; or 2) go beyond the premises of such person unless
such animal is securely leashed and muzzled. The leash shall be no longer than
six feet (6') in length. The muzzle shall be made in such a manner that it will
not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or respiration but
will prevent it from biting or causing injury to any person or animal. Being
confined on the premises shall consist of the animal being kept: 1) within the
residence or other building, or 2) within an enclosure from which the animal
cannot escape and with openings no more than two and one-half inches (21/2") in
width, or 3) on a run line or chain within an area enclosed by a fence that the
animal is unable to reach and that prevents the entry of small children.
Additionally, signs indicating the presence of a dangerous animal on the
property shall be posted on any enclosure and at the most conspicuous points of
entry to the property. The dangerous or potentially dangerous animal shall not
be returned to the person owning or having care of such animal until these
conditions are met to the satisfaction of the animal control officer.
   (h)   Notification Of Status Of Dangerous Animal: The owner of an animal
which has been classified as dangerous shall immediately notify the police
department when the animal: 1) is loose or unconfined; 2) has bitten a human
being or attacked another animal; 3) is sold or given away, or dies; 4) is
moved to another address.
   (i)   Sale Of Dangerous Animal: Prior to selling or giving away an animal
that has been classified as dangerous, the owner shall provide the name,
address, and telephone number of the new owner to the police department and
shall certify to the police department that the new owner has been notified of
such classification. The new owner shall comply with all of the requirements of
this section.
   (j)   Custodial Liability: In the event the owner or keeper of the dangerous
animal is a minor, the custodian, parent, or guardian, legally responsible for
such minor shall be liable for all injuries and property damage sustained by
any person or domestic animal caused by an unprovoked attack by said dangerous
animal.
   (k)   Penalty For Violation: Any person who violates a provision of this
section, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine in an amount not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In addition, any person found
guilty of violating this section shall pay all expenses, including shelter,
food, veterinary expenses for identification or certification of the breed of
the animal or boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of
any animal for the protection of the public, and such other expenses as may be
required for the destruction of any such animal. Any dangerous animal that is
in violation of the restrictions contained in subsection (g) of this section or
restrictions imposed as part of a declaration as a dangerous animal shall be
seized and impounded. (Ord. 98-09, 1-19-1998; Ord. 54-2003, § 2, 7-14-2003;
Ord. 082-2005, § 1, 10-17-2005)
Sec. 7-117.2. Potentially Dangerous Animal:
   (a)   Declaration Of Animal As Potentially Dangerous; Procedure:
      (1)   The Rock Island animal control officer or law enforcement officer
shall classify an animal as potentially dangerous if probable cause is
established to believe that the animal falls within the definitions set forth
for "potentially dangerous animal" in section
7-111, "Definitions", of this division.
The finding must be based upon: a) the written complaint of a citizen who is
willing to testify that the animal has acted in a manner which causes it to
fall within the definition of "potentially dangerous animal"; or b) reports
filed with the police department; or c) actions of the animal witnessed by any
animal control officer, law enforcement officer or citizen who is willing to
sign a complaint; or d) other substantial evidence.
      (2)   Once the police department becomes aware of an animal that may fall
within the definition of "potentially dangerous animal" set forth in section
7-111, "Definitions", of this division, an animal control officer or law
enforcement officer shall complete an investigation within five (5) days with a
recommendation as to whether or not the animal should be declared a potentially
dangerous animal. During this investigation, the animal shall be impounded at
the animal control facility utilized by the city.
This recommendation shall be reviewed with the animal's owner and the victim,
or the victim's parent/guardian if the victim is a minor. If either of these
persons should choose to dispute this recommendation, the investigating animal
control officer or law enforcement officer shall consult: a) a board certified
veterinarian who deals with this type of animal or b) an animal behavior
specialist who has completed a certification or formal program of education in
a related field or has at least three (3) years of work experience in a related
field. The opinion of the veterinarian or animal behavior specialist shall then
be used as the basis for the final recommendation on the declaration of the
animal as a potentially dangerous animal. The results of this consultation
shall also be shared with the animal's owner and the victim, or the victim's
parent/guardian if the victim is a minor.
      (3)   The declaration of potentially dangerous animal shall be in writing
and shall be served on the owner in one of the following methods: a) certified
mail to the owner's last known address; or b) personally; or c) if the owner
cannot be located by one of the first two (2) methods, by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in this community.
      (4)   The declaration shall state at least: a) the description of the
animal; b) the name and address of the owner of the animal, if known; c) the
whereabouts of the animal, if it is not in the custody of the owner; d) the
facts upon which the declaration of potentially dangerous animal is based; e)
the availability of a hearing in case the person objects to the declaration, if
a request is made within ten (10) days; f) the restrictions placed on the
animal as a result of the declaration of potentially dangerous animal; g) the
penalties for violation of the restrictions, including the possibility of
destruction of the animal, and/or fining of the owner.
   (b)   Owner Objection To Declaration Of Potentially Dangerous Animal: If the
owner of the animal wishes to object to the declaration of potentially
dangerous animal:
      (1)   The owner may request a hearing before the code hearing officer, by
submitting a written request and payment of a twenty five dollar ($25.00)
administrative review fee to the city within ten (10) days of receipt of the
declaration, or within ten (10) days of the publication of the declaration
pursuant to subsection (a)(3) of this section.
      (2)   If the code hearing officer finds that there is insufficient
evidence to support the declaration, it shall be rescinded, and the
restrictions imposed thereby annulled.
      (3)   If the code hearing officer finds sufficient evidence to support
the declaration, the owner may appeal such decision to the circuit court,
pursuant to the administrative review act.
   (c)   Restriction Of Potentially Dangerous Animal: Following a declaration
of potentially dangerous animal and during the entire appeal process or after
the exhaustion of any appeal therefrom, it shall be unlawful for the person
owning or having care of such potentially dangerous animal to allow or permit
such animal to go beyond the premises of such person unless such animal is
securely leashed and muzzled. The leash shall be no longer than six feet (6')
in length. The muzzle shall be made in such a manner that it will not cause
injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or respiration but will
prevent it from biting or causing injury to any person or animal.
   (d)   Notification Of Status Of Potentially Dangerous Animal: The owner of
an animal which has been classified as potentially dangerous shall immediately
notify the police department when the animal: 1) is loose; 2) has bitten a
human being or attacked another animal; 3) is sold or given away, or dies; 4)
is moved to another address.
   (e)   Sale Of Potentially Dangerous Animal: Prior to selling or giving away
an animal that has been classified as potentially dangerous, the owner shall
provide the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner to the police
department and shall certify to the police department that the new owner has
been notified of such classification. The new owner shall comply with all of
the requirements of this section.
   (f)   Custodial Liability: In the event the owner or keeper of the
potentially dangerous animal is a minor, the custodian, parent, or guardian,
legally responsible for such minor shall be liable for all injuries and
property damage sustained by any person or domestic animal caused by an
unprovoked attack by said potentially dangerous animal.
   (g)   Penalty For Violation: Any person who violates a provision of this
section, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine in an amount not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In addition, any person found
guilty of violating this section shall pay all expenses, including shelter,
food, veterinary expenses for identification or certification of the breed of
the animal or boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of
any animal for the protection of the public, and such other expenses as may be
required for the destruction of any such animal. Any potentially dangerous
animal that is in violation of the restrictions contained in subsection (c) of
this section or restrictions imposed as part of a declaration as a potentially
dangerous animal shall be seized and impounded. (Ord. 082-2005, § 1, 10-17-
2005)
Sec. 7-118. Surrender Of Unclaimed Impounded Animals For The Purposes Of
Medical Research:
   (a)   Whenever any reputable institutions of learning, hospitals, research
laboratories or their allied institutes within a reasonable distance of the
city shall make application to the chief of police or his authorized agent for
permission to use humanely unclaimed impounded animals for the good of mankind
and the increase of knowledge relating to the cause, prevention, control and
cure of disease, the chief of police or his authorized agent, upon being
satisfied that the animals are to be so used, shall, from time to time, release
such acceptable unclaimed impounded animals for medical research or otherwise
as above specified.
   (b)   In order to give the owners of impounded animals time within which to
reclaim the same, no animal shall be surrendered for such uses until it has
been impounded for a period of at least seven (7) days.
   (c)   No impounded animal wearing an unexpired county tag may be released
for purposes of medical research. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982;
Ord. 082-2005, § 1, 10-17-2005)
Sec. 7-119. Authority To Enter Premises:
For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this article upon the
department, the animal control officer, any sworn police officer or any member
of the department is hereby authorized and directed to enter upon any premises
upon which any dog or cat is kept or harbored and to demand the exhibition by
the person owning or having charge or control of such dog or cat, of the
license tag for such dog or cat. Whenever there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation, each member of the department or any
sworn police officer is hereby authorized and directed to enter upon any such
premises for the purpose of inspecting the same to ascertain if any provision
of this article or of any law of the state relating to the care, treatment or
impounding of dumb animals or for the prevention of cruelty thereto is being
violated. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-120. Animal Bites:
All bites or attacks on human beings by any animal within the city shall be
immediately reported to the chief of police. In the event of a bite by an
animal, a detailed report shall be completed by the receiving officer including
the complainant's name, address and phone number, the name and address of the
owner of such animal, if known, and the doctor treating the wound. (Ord., 12-3-
1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-121. Public Nuisance:
It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by permitting any
dangerous or potentially dangerous animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
Professionally trained guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support
dogs for the physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs
are exempt from this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs
while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under
this section, each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in
accordance with 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8. It shall be the duty of the
owner of such exempted dog to notify the animal control officer of this city of
changes of address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep
the animal control officer advised of the location where such dog will be
stationed. The animal control officer shall provide police and fire departments
with a categorized list of such exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify such
departments of any address changes reported to him. (Ord. 87-81, 10-5-1987;
Ord. 54-2003, § 3, 7-14-2003; Ord. 082-2005, § 1, 10-17-2005)
Secs. 7-122-7-135. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. DOGS AND CATS GENERALLY
Sec. 7-136. Inoculation Required:
   Every owner or keeper of a dog or cat within the limits of the city shall
have a valid rabies inoculation certificate issued by the state department of
agriculture. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982; Ord. 002-2020, 1-13-
2020)
Sec. 7-137. Rabies:
Any animal which comes under the Illinois rabies control law will be handled as
provided by this law. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982; Ord. 002-2020,
1-13- 2020)
Sec. 7-138. Nonresident Owners:
   The provisions of this article relating to the licensing of dogs and cats
shall not apply to dogs or cats of nonresidents remaining temporarily in or
passing through the city, provided that such dogs or cats have a license from
some other jurisdiction. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, 10-25-1982; Ord. 002-
2020, 1-13-2020)
Sec. 7-139. Licensing:
   (a)   Every person other than those excepted that owns, harbors, keeps, or
controls a dog or cat within the City of Rock Island shall within thirty (30)
days of acquisition of the dog or cat, register the dog or cat or cause it to
be registered for a license with the County of Rock Island. The license tag
shall be securely attached to a substantial collar or harness and shall at all
times be kept on the dog or cat for which the license is issued.
   (b)   New residents and persons acquiring in any manner whatsoever a new dog
or cat shall have thirty (30) days in which to obtain a county license. (Ord.
002-2020, 1- 13-2020)
Sec. 7-140. Display of License-Tag:
   It shall be a violation for any person to be in control of a dog over the
age of six (6) months that does not have a visibly displayed license tag
affixed to its collar when it leaves the premises of its owner or keeper. In
the event a dog is found to be without a license tag displayed, the animal
control officer or other member of the police department may impound or cause
to be impounded said dog. Said dog shall be released from impoundment upon
proof of a valid license tag issued by the city or other government body having
jurisdiction over the dog's owner or keeper or proof that such jurisdiction has
no such requirement. (Ord. 54-2003, § 4, 7-14-2003; Ord. 002-2020, 1-13-2020)
Sec. 7-141. Sanitation:
   The owner or keeper of any dog or cat in the city shall keep the area where
the animal is kept clean and odor free at all times. (Ord., 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-
41, 10-25-1982; Ord. 002-2020, 1-13-2020)
Sec. 7-142. Defecation on Public Property:
   No owner or keeper of any pet shall permit said pet to defecate on any
public way or public property or upon any private property without the
permission of the occupant or the owner of the private property without
immediately removing said defecation and depositing same in a refuse container
or similar depository. (Ord. 86-21, 5-5-1986; Ord. 56-2004, § 1, 5-10-2004;
Ord. 002-2020, 1-13-2020)
Sec. 7-143. Health and Cruelty:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or person to cruelly deprive
food, water, shelter, and protection to any animal under their control and/or
custody, or to abandon, poison, cruelly beat, cruelly whip or kill any animal
under their, another's or no one's control and/or custody, or to mutilate,
overdrive, overload, overwork, torment, torture or otherwise cruelly ill use
any animal. This section shall not apply to wild animals killed in the hunt
(not within city limits) by customary and non-brutal methods nor to wild rats,
mice, insects, fish, arthropods or vermin; nor shall this section apply to
medical research organizations duly licensed and/or otherwise recognized or
supported by state or federal law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to permit, either willfully
or through failure to exercise due care and control, any animal to bark, cry,
howl, whine or cause other objectionable noises which disturb the comfort,
peace, quiet or repose of any person residing in the vicinity.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner, either willfully or through
failure to exercise due care and control, to maintain an animal or the premises
upon which the animal is maintained, in such a manner as to emit such offensive
odors which disturb the comfort, peace or repose of any person residing in the
vicinity.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to abandon any animal where
it may become a public charge, or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure.
   (e)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 92-149, § 3,
12-21-1992; Ord. 002-2020, 1-13-2020)
Sec. 7-144. Commercial Kennels, Pet Shops, Breeders, And Animal Rescuers And
Rehabilitators:
   (a)   Definitions:
   Animal Care Facility: An animal control center or animal shelter, maintained
by or under contract with any state, county, or municipality, whose mission and
practice is, in whole, or significant part, the rescue and placement of animals
in permanent homes or rescue organizations.
   Animal Rescue Organization: Any not-for-profit organization which has tax-
exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue
Code, whose mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part, the
rescue and placement of animals in permanent homes. This term does not include
any entity, which is, or is housed on the premises of, a breeder or broker,
obtains dogs from a breeder or broker in exchange for payment or compensation,
or resells dogs obtained from a breeder or broker and provides payment or
compensation to such breeder or broker.
   Breeder: A person or persons who own or breed dogs and/or cats primarily for
personal recreational use, such as participation in recognized conformation
shows, field or obedience trials, racing, scenting, specialized hunting or
working trials, and water trials, and for the purpose of improving the physical
soundness, temperament, and conformation of a given breed to standard, such
person to sell or exchange, at retail only, and other than for purposes of
research, testing, or experimentation, dogs or cats bred from male/female dogs
or cats owned or leased by the breeders.
   Commercial Kennel: A structure or premises where dogs and cats over four (4)
months of age are kept, or boarded for commercial purposes, excluding animal
hospitals, clinics and pet shops.
   Offer for Sale: To sell, offer for sale or adoption, advertise for the sale
of, barter, auction, give away or otherwise dispose of an animal including dogs
and cats.
   Pet Shop: A retail establishment where live animals are sold, exchanged,
bartered or offered for sale as pet animals to the general public at retail.
Such definition shall not include an animal care facility or animal rescue
organization, as defined.
   (b)   No pet shop shall sell, deliver, offer for sale, barter, auction, give
away, or otherwise transfer or dispose of cats or dogs. Nothing in this section
shall prohibit pet stores from collaborating with animal care facilities or
animal rescue organizations to offer space for such entities to showcase
adoptable dogs and cats. (Ord. 002-2020, 1- 13-2020)
Secs. 7-145–7-155. Reserved:
DIVISION 3. IMPOUNDMENT
Sec. 7-156. Authorized.
   (a)   The owner, possessor or keeper of any dog or cat shall keep his dog or
cat under restraint at all times. Such dog or cat shall not be at large off the
premises or property of such owner, possessor or keeper unless under the
control of a competent person.
   (b)   A dog is under restraint within the meaning of this section if it is
controlled by a leash attached to a collar or harness, "at heel" beside a
competent person and is obedient to that person's commands, or when under the
control of a competent person on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on
the street.
   (c)   A cat is under restraint within the meaning of this section if it is
controlled by a leash or confined.
   (d)   (1) Every dog or cat running at large within the city shall be subject
to impoundment at any time by the animal control officer.
      (2)   The owner of any dog or cat that is impounded and claims that
animal shall pay a penalty of the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) for the first
impoundment.
      (3)   Any dog or cat that is impounded a second time within a one year
period shall be altered. The owner shall pay a penalty in the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for a second impoundment and in addition thereto the
reasonable cost for the mandatory altering of the animal if the altering would
not endanger the health of the animal. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, § 1(§
2), 10-25-1982; Ord. 86-56, § 1, 11-3-1986; Ord. 92-149, § 4, 12-21-1992; Ord.
88-2004, § 1, 9-20-2004)
Sec. 7-157. Duty Of Animal Control Officer Generally:
The animal control officer shall impound, or cause to be impounded, and shall
dispose of according to the provisions of this article, all dogs running at
large within the city and shall keep a record of every dog so impounded,
describing the breed, color and sex, together with the time and place such dog
was captured or received and the final disposition made of each dog, together
with such other information as may come to his attention. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-
1973; Ord. 82-41, § 1(§ 4), 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-158. Records:
The animal control officer or the person in charge of the animal shelter to
which any dog or cat is taken in accordance with the provisions of section
7-156 of this division, shall immediately enter in a register the breed, color
and sex of such dog or cat, whether licensed or not, and if licensed, the name
and address of the owner or keeper. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, § 1(§
2), 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-159. Notice To Owner:
When the owner of any impounded dog or cat is known, he shall be notified by
telephone or mail immediately after its impoundment by the person in charge of
the animal shelter. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, § 1(§ 2), 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-160. Claiming After Impoundment:
The owner of any animal impounded under the provisions of this article must
claim the animal within seven (7) days from the date of impounding upon payment
of the following fees to the animal control officer:
      (1)   The amount of the license fee for the current year, if not paid.
      (2)   The amount of the current veterinarian fee for rabies inoculation,
if a valid certificate is not shown.
      (3)   The amount for the temporary hepatitis and distemper injection for
dogs under one year of age.
      (4)   A redemption fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for the first
impounding and a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for subsequent impounding within
a year and in addition thereto the cost of altering as set forth in section
7-156 of this division if there has been a second offense.
      (5)   Residents shall pay a fee of three dollars fifty cents ($3.50) for
each day the animal has been impounded. Nonresidents shall pay a fee of five
dollars ($5.00) for each day the animal has been impounded. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-
1973; Ord., § 1, 3-17-1975; Ord., § 1, 11-7-1977; Ord. 82-41, § 1(§ 2), 10-25-
1982; Ord. 85-30, § 1, 8-26-1985; Ord. 87-34, § 13, 4-6-1987; Ord. 92-149, § 5,
12-21-1992)
Sec. 7-161. Animals Sold To New Owners:
Any person may purchase an animal impounded under the provisions of this
article after seven (7) days of impoundment, by complying with the following
fee schedule:
      (1)   Dogs under four (4) months of age, the sum of twenty dollars
($20.00) plus the cost of temporary hepatitis and distemper injection, and an
adoption in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) to cover the cost of neutering
or spaying.
      (2)   Dogs over four (4) months of age, the sum of twenty dollars
($20.00) plus the cost of rabies inoculation and an adoption deposit in the
amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) to cover the cost of neutering or spaying.
      (3)   Cats, the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) plus the cost of rabies
inoculation, if the cat is over four (4) months of age, and an adoption deposit
in the amount of forty dollars ($40.00) to cover the cost of neutering or
spaying. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-1973; Ord., § 1, 5-19-1975; Ord., § 2, 11-7-1977;
Ord. 82-41, § 1(§ 2), 10-25-1982; Ord. 85-30, § 2, 8-26-1985; Ord. 87-34, §§
10-12, 4-6-1987)
Sec. 7-162. Disposition Of Dogs Or Cats Not Claimed:
If any dog or cat impounded under the provisions of this article is not claimed
within seven (7) days after being impounded, the animal control officer may
dispose of such animal in a humane way by approved methods. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-
1973; Ord. 82-41, § 1(§ 2), 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-163. Injured Animals:
The animal control officer shall remove from any street or public place within
the city any injured animal not being attended and properly cared for by the
owner and shall, if he deems it necessary, impound and confine such animal with
some veterinarian within the city. If such veterinarian shall treat such
animal, he shall advise the animal control officer of the cost of such
treatment and in the event such dog is claimed as provided in this article, the
person so claiming such animal shall also pay the charges of the veterinarian.
If such animal is not claimed, it shall be disposed of in the manner herein
provided. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-1973; Ord. 82-41, § 1(§ 4), 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-164. Animals That Cannot Be Impounded:
If any dangerous, fierce or vicious dog or cat cannot safely be taken up and
impounded, such dog or cat may be slain by any sworn officer; provided,
however, that in all cases where any dog or cat so slain has bitten any person
or caused an abrasion of the skin of such person, it shall be the duty of the
officer slaying such dog or cat to immediately deliver the carcass and the head
of such dog or cat to the animal control officer. (Ord., § 1, 12-3-1973; Ord.
82-41, § 1(§ 2), 10-25-1982)
Sec. 7-165. Animals Released To Animal Shelter For Disposal:
Any nonresident releasing an animal to the animal shelter for disposal shall
pay a fee of five dollars ($5.00) per animal or ten dollars ($10.00) for a
litter. (Ord. 87-34, § 14, 4-6-1987)
Sec. 7-166. Penalty:
Any person violating the provisions of this article which is not covered by a
specific fee and/or fine listed herein as a first offense shall be subject to a
citation, which citation shall be paid at the police department in the amount
of twenty five dollars ($25.00); if paid within seven (7) days of the date
issued the amount shall be twenty dollars ($20.00). Any second and subsequent
violation of this article shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 92-149, §
6, 12-21-1992)
DIVISION 4. URBAN CHICKENS
Sec. 7-167. Purpose:
   The purpose of this ordinance is to establish certain requirements which are
intended to reduce problems that may otherwise be associated with the keeping
of chickens in urban areas and to encourage high quality chicken keeping
practices. (Ord. 004-2020, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 7-168. Definitions:
   Chicken: Any breed or stage of the common domesticated fowl, Gallus gallus
domesticus.
   Chicken Tractor: A lightweight portable chicken coop and/or enclosure that
allows chickens to be moved around and forage in various locations. These are
prohibited.
   Chicken Keeper: A person who is responsible for the maintenance of a chicken
coop/enclosure and its resident chickens as well as all associated materials,
equipment, and products.
   Coop: A structure where chickens are kept and can roost.
   Enclosure: A secure fenced area inside of which a coop and its resident
chickens are kept.
   Hen: A female chicken.
   Rooster: A male chicken. These are prohibited. (Ord. 004-2020, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 7-169. Licensing:
   (a)   No person shall keep chickens within the City without first obtaining
the appropriate license issued by the City. Coops cannot be established until a
license is issued. Licenses shall be renewed annually.
   (b)   At the time of application for a chicken keeping license, the
applicant shall submit the following.
      (1)   A completed application as provided by the City.
      (2)   A scaled site plan of the proposed coop and enclosure that shows
compliance with this article.
      (3)   Proof of successful completion of an urban chicken keeping class
that is approved by the City.
      (4)   Proof that all adjacent property owners have been notified of the
proposed coop and enclosure.
      (5)   When the applicant is leasing the subject property, proof that the
property owner consents to the establishment of a chicken enclosure.
Additionally, in the case of a multi-family dwelling, proof that all households
in the dwelling consent to the establishment of a chicken enclosure on the
property.
   (c)   A decision to deny an application or renew a license shall be
presented in writing to the applicant and shall specify the reasons for the
denial.
   (d)   Applicants may appeal the denial of their application or renewal of
their license to the Planning Commission. An appeal must be filed within thirty
(30) days of the denial. Once filed, the appeal shall be heard by the Planning
Commission within sixty (60) days. A simple majority vote of the Planning
Commission shall be sufficient to overturn or affirm the initial denial. The
Planning Commission may also grant reasonable accommodations requested by
applicants who are appealing. The applicant must demonstrate that unique
circumstances prevent them from achieving compliance with certain requirements
of this article. Adjacent property owners shall be notified of the requested
accommodations and given an opportunity to object.
   (e)   Decisions of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council within thirty (30) days of the Commission's denial. Once filed, the
appeal shall be heard by the City Council within sixty (60) days. A simple
majority vote of the City Council shall be sufficient to overturn or affirm the
decision of the Planning Commission. The City Council may also grant reasonable
accommodations requested by applicants who are appealing. The applicant must
demonstrate that unique circumstances prevent them from achieving compliance
with certain requirements of this article. Adjacent property owners shall be
notified of the requested accommodations and given an opportunity to object.
   (f)   Applicants must wait one (1) year before filing a new application for
the same property.
   (g)   The annual fee for a chicken license shall be twenty-five dollars
($25). (Ord. 004-2020, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 7-170. Location:
   (a)   All chicken enclosures shall be located in a rear yard or on a flat
roof top and be at least ten feet (10') from neighboring property lines. On
properties one (1) acre in size or larger, the enclosure may be located in a
side or front yard provided that the enclosure is at least one hundred feet
(100') from the neighboring property lines.
   (b)   When a chicken enclosure is located in a rear yard, the rear yard must
be fully enclosed with a six-foot (6') fence so that it is secure from
unauthorized persons. On properties one (1) acre in size or larger, a fence
shall not be required provided that the enclosure is at least one hundred feet
(100') from the neighboring property lines. When an enclosure is located on a
flat roof top, access to the roof must be restricted so that it is secure from
unauthorized persons. (Ord. 004-2020, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 7-171. Coops And Enclosures:
   (a)   Enclosures shall be secure fenced areas that prevents entry by
predators from below, above, and the sides. It shall at a minimum consist of
wire fencing or mesh with openings no larger than one inch (1"). Coops and
their resident chickens shall be kept inside an enclosure at all times.
   (b)   Coops and enclosures shall be secured so as to impede the entrance of
rodents, birds, and other predators or nuisance species. They shall also be
kept clean, dry, odor free, neat, and sanitary at all times.
   (c)   Coops shall be designed with a minimum of four (4) square feet per
chicken. They shall also be enclosed on all sides, have a roof, secured
entrance, and adequate ventilation. Chickens shall be secured within a coop
between dusk and dawn.
   (d)   The materials used in making coops and enclosures shall be uniform for
each element of the structure such that the walls are made of the same
material, the roof has the same shingles or other covering, and any windows or
openings are constructed using the same materials. The use of scrap, waste
board, sheet metal, or similar materials is prohibited.
   (e)   There shall be no more than one enclosure and one coop therein on any
given property.
   (f)   Chickens outside of an enclosure shall be deemed at-large and subject
to capture and removal by the Rock Island animal control officer or their
designee. No dog or cat that harms or kills a chicken at-large shall be
considered dangerous or aggressive for that reason alone. (Ord. 004-2020, 3-9-
2020)
Sec. 7-172. Food, Water, And Health:
   (a)   Chicken keepers shall provide adequate feed to chickens and secure
said feed in such a fashion as to avoid attracting predators or nuisance
species.
   (b)   Chicken keepers shall ensure that a fresh, convenient source of water
is available to chickens at all times.
   (c)   Chicken manure shall be stored in a covered container and shall not
exceed three (3) cubic feet in volume. All manure not used for composting or
fertilizing on the property shall be removed.
   (d)   Chickens shall be monitored for health problems common to their
species and cared for using common best practice methods. Chickens found to be
infested with parasites or disease that may result in unhealthy conditions may
be removed by the Rock Island animal control officer or their designee. (Ord.
004-2020, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 7-173. Maintenance:
   (a)   All items associated with the chickens must be kept in sound and
usable condition. Chicken keepers shall ensure that no refuse or related
materials are left on the ground of the enclosure.
   (b)   In any instance where a chicken becomes hostile by exhibiting
aggressive characteristics such as pecking or scratching, it shall be removed
from the property.
   (c)   It is a suggested practice that insecticides, pesticides, and similar
chemicals not be used at the property on which chickens are located. (Ord. 004-
2020, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 7-174. Conduct and Requirements:
   (a)   Chickens that are not licensed by the City shall be considered a
nuisance.
   (b)   A person shall not keep chickens on property owned or occupied by
another person without first being granted written permission from the owner or
occupant.
   (c)   It is unlawful for any person keep chickens on any property in a
manner that threatens the public health or safety, or creates a nuisance.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful to keep roosters. Only hens shall be permitted.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful to slaughter chickens within the City.
   (f)   Chicken tractors or other mobile enclosures are prohibited.
   (g)   It is unlawful for any person to keep chickens as part of a business
in a zoning district in which such a business would not be licensed.
   (h)   Keeping chickens shall be done in accordance with this Article and any
other applicable laws. (Ord. 004-2020, 3-9-2020)
Secs. 7-175 – 7-180. Reserved:
ARTICLE VII. HOUSING CODE 1
 
Notes
  See § 2-256 et seq., fair housing board; § 4-2, "House Movers"; § 4-111 et
1 seq., abatement of dangerous buildings; and § 13-53 et seq., house numbers, of
  this code.
Sec. 7-181. Adopted:
The International Code Council, International Property Maintenance Code, copies
of which are on file in the office of the city clerk, is hereby adopted by
reference and shall serve as the housing code of the City of Rock Island
subject to the amendments which were recommended by the Rock Island Housing
Code Advisory and Appeals Board which are attached to ordinance 99-66 on file
in the office of the City Clerk and made a part hereof by reference. (Ord. 90-
75, § 1, 10-15-1990; Ord. 92-64, § 1, 4-13-1992; Ord. 99-6, § 1, 8-23-1999;
Ord. 035-2019, 7-8-2019)
Secs. 7-182-7-220. Reserved:
ARTICLE VIII. REGULATION OF PIGEON LOFTS AND CARRIER OR RACING PIGEONS
Sec. 7-221. Purpose And Definitions:
   (a)   Purpose: The purpose of this Article is to protect the health and
safety of the community by regulating and controlling the raising, keeping, and
exercising of carrier and racing pigeons in order to prevent disease and
nuisance.
   (b)   Definitions:
      (1)   Carrier Pigeon: Homing and racing pigeons which have the name of
the owner stamped upon the wing or tail, or are banded upon the leg with the
name or initials of the owner or with an identification or registration number
stamped on the band.
      (2)   Health Authority: The Chief Building Inspector or his designated
representative of the City of Rock Island.
      (3)   Loft: Any structure in which carrier, homing and racing pigeons are
housed.
      (4)   Racing Pigeon: A pigeon registered with a national pigeon racing
organization and used as a game competitive bird. (Ord. 86-47, 9-15-1986; Ord.
87-22, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 7-222. Permit:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a loft or raise, keep, or exercise
carrier and racing pigeons without first obtaining a permit from the health
authority in the manner prescribed in this Article. (Ord. 86-47, 9-15-1986)
Sec. 7-223. Application:
The applicant shall file an application for such a permit with the Chief
Building Inspector or his designated representative on a form he shall
prescribe. At this time, the applicant shall pay a filing fee of twenty dollars
($20.00). The application shall include a statement in writing by the applicant
and adequate evidence showing that the construction and operation of the
proposed loft will conform to the standards set forth in Section
7-224 of this Article. The application shall also include the name of the
pigeon club or organization the birds are registered with, a contact person
within the organization and a phone number where this person can be reached.
(Ord. 86-47, 9-15-1986; Ord. 87-2, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 7-224. Standards:
No permit shall be issued by the health authority unless such authority shall
find:
   (1)   That no odor related to the keeping of pigeons is to be present at the
property line at any time.
   (2)   That the droppings be handled in a sanitary manner within a closed
container to prevent fly breeding and odor.
   (3)   That the pigeons shall be controlled by their owner so that they will
not constitute a nuisance to neighboring property owners. A nuisance may, among
other actions, be defined as the exercising of pigeons at an unacceptable time
of day.
   (4)   That all lofts constructed after passage of this Article shall be in
no yard other than the rear yard; nor shall it occupy more than thirty percent
(30%) of a required rear yard. It shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height
and shall be distant at least three feet (3') from alley lines of adjoining
lots and at least six feet (6') from alley lines and any other building or
structure on the same lot.
   (5)   That the construction of the structure meet all other City
regulations, including but not limited to Building Code regulations. (Ord. 86-
47, 9-15-1986)
Sec. 7-225. Conditions And Safeguards:
   (a)   Prior to the granting of such a permit, the health authority shall
stipulate such standards as described in Section
7-224 above.
   (b)   Said permit, when granted, shall be in full force and effect only as
long as the owner of said loft retains ownership at that particular location.
(Ord. 86-47, 9-15-1986)
Sec. 7-226. Authority And Inspection:
The Chief Building Inspector or his designated representative is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this Article. (Ord.
86-47, 9-15-1986; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 7-227. Fees:
An annual license fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be charged. (Ord. 86-47,
9-15-1986)
Sec. 7-228. Penalties:
   (a)   Finding Of Violation: Upon finding a violation of the provisions of
this Article, or the conditions specified by the health authority, the Chief
Building Inspector or his designated representative shall notify the owner of
the pigeons and the club contact person as specified at the time of licensing.
The owner shall then have fourteen (14) days to remedy the violations. After
this fourteen (14) day period, the Chief Building Inspector or his designated
representative shall reinspect the loft to determine if violations still exist.
   (b)   Revocation Of Permit: If violations continue to exist past the
fourteen (14) day period, the Chief Building Inspector or his designated
representative shall revoke any permit issued under the provisions of this
Article.
If a license is cited for violation of this Article three (3) times in a twelve
(12) month period, said license shall be permanently revoked.
   (c)   Civil Remedy: If said pigeon loft is not dismantled and pigeons
removed from the premises upon revocation of said permit, then action shall be
brought by the City Attorney, his designee, or by designated representative of
the Community Services and Development Department. (Ord. 86-47, 9-15-1986; Ord.
87-22, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 7-229. Appeals:
   (a)   Prior to the revocation of said permit on grounds of violation which
do not constitute a nuisance to neighboring property owners, including but not
limited to subsection 7-224(4) and (5), the Chief Building Inspector or his
designated representative shall provide written notice to the permit holder
stating the reasons for which the permit is subject to revocation and advising
that the permit shall be permanently revoked at the end of five (5) days
following service of such notice, unless a written request for a hearing before
the appropriate board is filed with the health authority by the permit holder
within such five (5) day period.
   (b)   Revocation of the permit shall occur prior to an appeal hearing if the
violations constitute a nuisance to neighboring property owners, including but
not limited to subsection 7-224(1), (2), and (3).
   (c)   If revocation is a result of violations of subsection 7-224(4) of this
Article, appeals will be made to the Board of Zoning Appeals within five (5)
days following service of a notice of revocation by the Chief Building
Inspector or his designated representative. (Ord. 86-47, 9-15-1986; 87-22, 3-
23-1987)
Sec. 7-230. Applicability:
Owners of existing pigeon lofts as well as proposed lofts shall be subject to
the provisions of this article. Existing lofts shall be exempted from the
requirement found in subsection 7-224(4) of this chapter. (Ord. 86-47, 9-15-
1986)
ARTICLE IX. NUISANCES AND REFUSE
Sec. 7-231. Definitions:
See chapter 13, article II, "Solid Waste", of this code. (Ord. 96-40, 6-10-
1996; Ord. 035-2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 7-232. General Conditions:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any refuse upon any
street, alley, lane or public or private property in the city.
   (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of record to keep the
property in compliance with this article. (Ord. 96-40, 6-10-1996 ; Ord. 035-
2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 7-233. Nuisances:
   Within the territorial jurisdiction of the city it is hereby declared a
nuisance for any person:
      (1)   Nuisances At Common Law: To cause any of those acts or omissions
that are declared to be nuisances by the state and such as are known as
nuisances to the common law of the land, not hereinafter specially enumerated.
      (2)   Premises To Be Kept Clean: To keep or suffer to be kept within the
city limits in a foul, offensive, nauseous, or filthy condition any building,
lot, yard, premises or junkyard.
      (3)   Junk: To keep or suffer to be kept within the city limits in a
foul, offensive, nauseous, filthy, dilapidated or unsafe condition any vehicle,
machinery, appliance or household item.
      (4)   Furniture: For the owner or keeper of any lot or premises to suffer
to remain thereon, to the annoyance and detriment of other persons outside the
buildings located on the premises, any furniture not designed for outdoor use.
      (5)   Garbage And Rubbish Storage And Pick Up Areas: It shall be the
responsibility of the owner of record to keep the garbage and rubbish storage
and pick-up areas on public rights of way (defined in chapter 13 of this code)
free from garbage and rubbish on the ground.
      (6)   Refuse Disposal: For the owner and/or tenant of any lot or premises
to place or allow to be placed any refuse container, yard waste or brush at the
street, curb or alley on the public right-of-way pick up site earlier than
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon the day before pick up or to allow any refuse
containers to remain at the pick-up site no later than twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon the day after pick up.
      (7)   Brush: For the owner and/or tenant of any lot or premises to allow
brush or brush in piles to remain on the property longer than thirty (30) days
of breaking or cutting.
      (8)   Animals: For the owner or keeper of any lot or premises to allow
animal wastes to accumulate to a point where odors are present at the property
line or the presence of insects creates a health hazard for surrounding
properties. Animal wastes shall be handled as garbage.
      (9)   Unburied Animals: For the owner or possessor of an animal which may
die within the city to leave the same unburied less than twenty four inches
(24") below ground or properly dispose of the carcass therein for more than
eight (8) hours after its death, or for any person to bring and leave the
carcass of any such animal within the city. In case the animal is not removed
within the eight (8) hour period after notification, the inspection division
shall cause the removal of said animal and certify the cost of such removal as
a lien against the property. Notification shall consist of a posting on the
premises.
      (10)   Slaughter Of Animals: To kill or slaughter any animals within the
city limits, to the injury, discomfort or annoyance of any inhabitants of the
neighborhood.
      (11)   Animal And Vermin Harborage: For the owner and/or tenant of any
residential lot or premises to allow any material such as lumber, boxes,
barrels, scrap iron, construction material or any other materials which would
provide harborage for rats, mice, snakes or other vermin. Firewood must be
neatly stacked and elevated a minimum of four inches (4") above the ground.
      (12)   Vector Control: For the owner and/or tenant of any lot or
residence to permit water to stand in containers of any kind unless mosquito
controls have been taken or allow animal or vermin harborages under any garage,
shed, porch, residential structure or other buildings on the premises without
taking necessary measures to destroy or capture the animals or vermin. Poisons
may not be used unless placed in areas not readily accessible to persons or
domesticated animals. For single user nonowner occupied lots or premises, the
owner and/or occupant shall be responsible for the extermination of any
rodents, vermin or other pests of public health significance therein on the
premises. In multi-tenant lots or premises, the owner and/or tenant is
responsible for extermination of such pests.
      (13)   Offensive Matter In River: For the owner and/or tenant of any lot
or property to allow or suffer to allow any blood, bone, offal, and any other
offensive matter to run, fall, or get into any storm drain, drainage ditch or
other watercourse which leads into the Mississippi River. (Ord. 96-40, 6-10-
1996; Ord. 035-2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 7-234. Penalties For Nuisance Violations:
   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be subject to the
following penalties.
   (1)   Upon detection of a nuisance violation, the respective property owner
shall be issued a courtesy notice directing them to abate the violation within
seven (7) days of the date of the courtesy notice. No fine shall accompany the
courtesy notice.
   (2)   If the property owner fails to abate the nuisance within seven (7)
days of the courtesy notice, the City shall be empowered to abate the nuisance.
The Building Official and the Public Works Director, or their respective
designees, shall direct the abatement by either City staff or a contractor. The
costs incurred by the City to abate the nuisance shall be charged to the
property owner on their municipal utility bill, in the form of a lien on the
property, or in any other manner consistent with the Code of Ordinances.
Further, the City Attorney is authorized and directed to initiate litigation in
court to recover costs incurred. The cost of abatement will be accompanied by a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or ten percent (10%) of the cost of
abatement, whichever amount is greater.
   (3)   A property owner who has been cited and had a nuisance abated on their
property by the City three (3) or more times in a one (1) year period shall be
considered a habitual violator. Habitual violators shall receive notice that
they are so considered and said notice shall inform them that all subsequent
violations shall result in immediate abatement by the City without additional
courtesy notices. The costs incurred by the City to abate the nuisance and the
associated fine shall be charged to the property owner in the same manner as
above. Designation as a habitual violator may be discontinued when the property
owner in question has not been cited for a minimum of one (1) year.
   (4)   Property owners may appeal a nuisance citation to the Municipal Code
Enforcement Service (MUNICES). Said appeal must be in writing and explain how
there is not a nuisance violation present using photographic evidence. The
appeal must be delivered to the Building Official prior to the end of the seven
(7) day period following the issuance of the courtesy notice. Appeals received
late shall not be considered. The Building Official shall ensure that the
appeal is heard at the next regularly scheduled MUNICES hearing. At said
hearing, the Building Official or their designee shall present evidence that a
nuisance violation is present. The property owner or their designee shall
present evidence to the contrary. Should the presiding Code Hearing Officer
decide that a nuisance does exist, the City may proceed with abatement
immediately. Should the presiding Officer decide that no violation is present
or that the violation is less severe, they may dismiss the citation in whole or
in part. The respective parties shall retain, however, the right to take civil
action in local court. (Ord. 96-40, 6-10-1996; Ord. 085- 2014, 12-1-2014; Ord.
035-2019, 7-8-2019; Ord. 028-2023, 7-24-2023)
Chapter 8
LICENSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS 1 , 2
 
Notes
  See also chapter 3, alcoholic beverages; chapter 7, health; chapter 9, "Motor
  Vehicles And Traffic"; chapter 15, "Taxation"; chapter 16, "Utilities"; appendix
  A, "Zoning"; appendix C, "Franchises"; § 4-2, "House Movers"; § 4-24, electrical
  contractors; § 6-44, "Removal Of Fireworks"; § 7-83 et seq., license for mobile
1 home park; § 7-140 et seq., licenses for dogs and cats; § 10-6, obscene
  literature; § 10-7, forfeiture of license for certain offenses; § 10-41,
  billposting; § 13-31, "Commercial Refuse And Garbage Containers"; § 13-33,
  "Commercial Rubbish And Garbage Haulers"; and § 13-100, merchandise on sidewalk,
  of this code.
2 65 ILCS 5/11-42-1 et seq., 5/11-60-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 8-1. Licenses Subject To Ordinances:
All licenses which may at any time be issued under any ordinance of the City
shall be subject to all ordinances and regulations of the City which may be in
force during the period of such license, or any portion of such period, and
shall also be subject to all laws of the State and conditioned upon their
faithful observance, and a violation of any of the provisions of said
ordinances or laws by any licensed person shall, in addition to the penalties
which may be provided for such violation, subject him to a revocation of his
license. (1963 Code art. 6-1)
Sec. 8-2. How Issued; Terms:
All licenses which may be issued under any ordinance of the City, unless such
ordinance shall otherwise provide, shall be signed by the City Clerk under the
Corporate Seal of the City, and shall specify the kind of license. Fees shall
be payable at the City Finance Department prior to May 1 of each year. The
licensing year shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on April 30 of the
next succeeding calendar year. All licenses shall expire on said April 30 in
each calendar year. In the case of new businesses, new license applications, or
additional licenses for existing businesses only where the application for the
license is made after October 31 of any year, the fee for the license shall be
one-half (1/2) of the stated fee for the remainder of that license year only.
(Ord. 043-2017, 11-6-2017)
Sec. 8-3. Assignment; Surrender; New License; Bond:
   (a)   Except as provided in this section, licenses are not transferable.
   (b)   Any person to whom a license may have been issued under any ordinance
of this City may, with the permission of the Council, or other authorized City
official, have the same transferred or surrender such license and have the same
cancelled and have a like license issued for the unexpired term of the one so
surrendered to the person or place of business to which he may wish to transfer
the same upon the licensee named in such new license giving bond (if bond is
required in such case) and complying with the ordinances and laws under which
the license is issued. (1963 Code art. 6-1)
Sec. 8-4. Revocation By Mayor Or Council:
Any license granted under the provisions of an ordinance of the City may be
revoked at any time, upon written notice by the Council or other authorized
City official, when it shall appear that the licensed party has violated or
failed to comply with any provision of any ordinance of the City or the laws of
the State applicable to the person, business occupation or place so licensed.
(1963 Code art. 6-1)
Sec. 8-5. Register Of Licenses:
The City Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses issued; the date, term and
kind of license, the amount paid therefor and the name and place of business of
the licensee. (1963 Code art. 6-1)
Sec. 8-6. Garage And Yard Sales 1  2 :
Garage, yard and related sales are hereby authorized on residentially zoned
property in the City only upon compliance with the following conditions:
   (1)   The sale on the premises shall not exceed a seventy two (72) hour
period.
   (2)   No residentially zoned premises in the City shall be used for the site
of a sale more than twice in any calendar year.
   (3)   Property to be sold in said sale shall be limited to items of personal
property owned by the persons on whose premises the sale is being conducted.
   (4)   Any person authorized by this section shall be allowed to place a sign
advertising same on his or her premises or on other private property when
authorized by the owner thereof during the time of said sale and said sign
shall be removed at the end of said sale period. No sign shall be placed or
permitted on a public right-of-way. (Ord., 10-13-1975; Ord., 11-3-1975; Ord.,
11-10-1975; Ord. 87-34, 4-6-1987; Ord. 91-14, 2-11-1991; Ord. 96-89, 11-11-
1996)
 
Notes
1 See § 4-46 et seq., "Signs", of this Code.
2 65 ILCS 5/11-42-3.
Sec. 8-7. Sound-Amplifying Equipment 3 :
   (a)   Definitions: As used in this section:
      Person: Any corporation, partnership or two (2) or more individuals
having a joint or common interest.
      Sound-Amplifying Equipment: Any machine or device for the amplification
of the human voice, music or any other sound. It shall not be construed as
including sound-amplifying devices when used and heard only by occupants of the
vehicle or building in which located, or such devices when used for authorized
traffic-safety purposes.
   (b)   License - Required: No person either as principal or agent shall
operate or cause to be operated any sound-amplifying equipment, either
stationary or mounted on vehicles, in the City, without a license as provided
in this section.
   (c)   License - Application: Any person, within the meaning of this section,
desiring to use "sound-amplifying equipment", as herein defined, shall make,
and file with the City Clerk, a written application stating the applicant's
name, residence, place of business, kind of business, the purpose for which the
sound-amplifying equipment shall be used, the proposed hours of operation, the
number of days of the proposed operation, a general description of said
equipment and the maximum sound-producing power of the equipment, including the
following:
      (1)   The wattage to be used.
      (2)   The volume in decibels of sound which will be produced.
      (3)   The approximate maximum distance from which sound will be thrown
from the equipment.
   (d)   License - Fee; Issuance: The applicant shall, at the time, pay to the
City Collector as a license fee twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day or
part of a day for each unit. Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk.
   (e)   Regulations For Use: The use of sound-amplifying equipment and its
operation shall be subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   The only sounds permitted are music and the human voice.
      (2)   Operation is permitted between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. each day except on Sundays and legal holidays,
when no operation shall be authorized.
      (3)   Sound shall not be emitted within one hundred (100) yards of
hospitals, schools, churches or courthouses.
      (4)   The human speech and music amplified shall not be profane,
slanderous or obscene as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20.
      (5)   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be
audible for a distance in excess of one hundred feet (100') from the sound
amplifying equipment, and so that said volume is not unreasonably loud,
raucous, jarring, disturbing or a nuisance to persons within the area of
audibility. (1963 Code art. 6-2(Q); Ord. 91-14, 2-11-1991)
 
Notes
3 415 ILCS 5/24.
Sec. 8-8. Gasoline Filling Stations 1 :
Any person operating a filling station for the sale of gasoline or other motor
fuel in the City and any person to whom a license to operate such filling
station shall be hereafter granted shall pay to the City Finance Department an
annual fee. The fee for said license shall be forty five dollars ($45.00) for
each nozzle, whether in use or not, located at said filling station, payable in
accordance with section 8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 043-2017, 11-6-2017)
 
Notes
1 820 ILCS 205/7.
Sec. 8-9. Going Out Of Business Sales:
   (a)   State Law: All persons holding going out of business sales shall
comply with 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350/1 through 350/12, which provides
for the licensing and regulation of said sales as defined therein.
   (b)   Inspection: In addition to the regulations and requirements set forth
in said State Statute, any person conducting a sale defined in said Act shall
comply with the inspection requirements as set forth in this section. The Mayor
shall, upon the filing of an application for a sale, appoint an inspector or
inspectors, not to exceed three (3) in number, accordingly as the requirements
of the situation seem to demand, said inspector or inspectors to be residents
of the City and who may be City officials or employees or otherwise, whose duty
it shall be to inspect and investigate the inventory submitted with the
application for license, and the stock of goods or merchandise offered for sale
thereunder, and who shall either singly, or as a body, as directed by the
Mayor, attend the sale held under the license when issued, and report to the
Mayor whether any goods not listed in the inventory had been offered for sale,
and whether the other requirements of this section are being complied with. The
Mayor shall require that the articles enumerated in said inventory be numbered
in sequence and that tags, corresponding to the numbers so shown in the
inventory, be placed on each article when offered for sale and accompany the
article when sold. Such inspector or inspectors attending any sale shall have
with them a copy or copies of the inventory as originally furnished with the
application and shall check or compare the articles offered for sale with the
inventory. For the purpose of such inspection said inspector or inspectors
shall have access to the place where such sale is to be held at any time prior
to the opening of any such sale. Such inspector or inspectors shall not receive
any compensation for duties performed hereunder prior to the opening of any
such sale, but shall each be compensated at the rate determined by the City
Council for attendance at any sale held under any license granted hereunder.
Provided, however, that no City employee attending any such sale hereunder
shall be entitled to or receive any extra compensation above his regular salary
or wage. Any person holding a sale within the meaning of this section shall
deposit with the City Collector prior to the issuance of a license as
aforesaid, a cash deposit in an amount to be determined by the Mayor, not to
exceed one-half of one percent of the cost inventory of the goods to be sold,
to guarantee payment to the City of a sum equal to the cost of inspection as
above defined. (1963 Code art. 6-2(P))
Sec. 8-10. Sale Of Merchandise On Street, Etc.:
No person shall place or allow to be placed on public sidewalks or public ways,
any merchandise or goods for the purpose of advertising or selling same without
prior approval of the City Council. (Ord., 6-23-1975)
Secs. 8-11 - 8-25. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. ALARM BUSINESSES, SYSTEMS AND USERS 1
 
Notes
1 Cross reference--Police, ch. 12
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 8-26. Title:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the ROCK ISLAND CITY ORDINANCE
REGULATING BURGLAR AND HOLDUP ALARM BUSINESSES, SYSTEMS, AND USERS. (Ord., 10-
2-1978)
Sec. 8-27. Definitions:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   Alarm Agent: Any person who is employed by an alarm business, either
directly or indirectly, whose duties include selling, maintaining, leasing,
servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing on or in any
building, structure or facility, any alarm system. Exemption: The provisions of
this article do not apply to a person who engages in the manufacture or sale of
an alarm system from a fixed location and who neither visits the location where
the alarm system is to be installed, nor designs the scheme for physical
location and installation of the alarm system in a specific location.
   Alarm Business: The business by any individual, partnership or corporation
or other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, inspecting, servicing,
repairing, moving or installing any alarm system in or on any building,
structure or facility. Exemption: Said definition shall not apply to persons
engaged solely in the manufacture or sale of alarm system components from a
fixed location, and who do not install, alter, maintain, service or plan the
alarm system for a specific location.
   Alarm System: Any mechanical or electrical device which is designed or used
for the detection of an unauthorized entry into a building, structure or
facility or for alerting others of the commission of an unlawful act within a
building, structure or facility, or both; and which emits a sound or transmits
a signal or message when actuated and to which police are expected to respond.
In this article, the term "alarm system" shall include the terms "audible
alarm", "automatic dialing device", "burglar alarm system" and "holdup alarm
system" as those terms are hereinafter defined.
   Answering Service: A telephone answering business providing among its
services receiving, on a continuous basis through trained employees, emergency
signals from alarm systems, and thereafter immediately relaying the message by
live voice over a signal channel circuit to the communication center of the
Police Department.
   Appellant: A person who perfects an appeal pursuant to this article.
   Applicant: A person, firm or corporation that files an application for a new
or renewal permit as provided in this article.
   Audible Alarm: A device designed for the detection of unauthorized entry on
premises which generates an audible sound on the premises when it is actuated.
This audible alarm may or may not be combined with a method of transmitting a
signal to a remote point. Exemption: The provisions of this article are not
applicable to audible alarms affixed to motor vehicles.
   Automatic Dialing Device: An alarm system which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice
message or coded signal indicating the existence of the emergency situation
that the alarm system is designed to detect.
   Burglar Alarm System: A method of detecting and signaling the presence,
entry or attempted entry of an intruder into protected premises.
   Central Station System: A system or group of systems, usually operated from
its customers by a person, in which the operations of protected circuits and
devices are transmitted to, recorded in, maintained and supervised from a
central station having trained operators and guards in attendance at all times,
that have the duty to take appropriate action upon receipt of a signal or
message including the relaying of messages by a signal channel circuit to the
communications center of the police department.
   City: The city of Rock Island or its authorized employees or agents.
   Direct Alarm System: An alarm system which has the capability of
transmitting signals to and receiving them at the communications center of the
Rock Island police department.
   False Alarm: The intentional or unintentional activation of an alarm system
through mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation or the
negligence of the owner or lessee of an alarm system or of his employees or
agents which necessitates response by the Rock Island police department where
an attempted or actual burglary or holdup does not exist. Such terminology does
not include, for example, alarms caused by tornadoes, earthquakes or other
violent conditions.
   Holdup Alarm System: An alarm system signaling a robbery or attempted
robbery.
   Modified Central Station: An office to which remote alarm and supervisory
signaling devices are connected, where operators supervise the circuits and
relay the messages by a "signal channel circuit" to the communications center
of the police department.
   Police Chief: The chief of the police department of the city of Rock Island,
or his authorized representative.
   Primary Trunk Line: A telephone line leading into the communications center
of the police department, that is for the purpose of handling emergency calls
on a person to person basis, and which line is identified by a specific listing
among the emergency numbers in a telephone directory issued by the telephone
company serving the city.
   Protected Premises: That part of a building, structure or facility to which
protection is afforded by an alarm system.
   Signal Channel Circuit: A telephone service that only provides a two-way
telephone service from one location to another location. In the police station,
it will be used to report emergency signals from an "answering service", a
"central station" or from a "modified central station" to the police
communication center on a person to person basis.
   Subscriber: A person who buys and/or leases, or otherwise obtains an alarm
signaling system and thereafter contracts with or hires an alarm business to
monitor and/or service the alarm device. (Ord., § 3(A-V), 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-28. Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this article shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of this article and does not wish to contest said allegations prior
to the time a complaint is issued for said violation, the person accused may
pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) for and in full satisfaction of said violation. (Ord.
005-2011, 2-7-2011)
Sec. 8-29. Purpose:
The purpose of this article is to provide minimum standards and regulations
applicable to burglar and holdup alarm systems, alarm businesses, alarm agents
and alarm users; require permits therefor; establish fees; and provide for
punishment of violations of provisions as defined in this article. (Ord., § 2,
10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-30. Standards And Regulations Prescribed By Police Chief:
The police chief may prescribe reasonable minimum standards and regulations for
the construction and maintenance of all alarm systems installed within the
city. All devices shall meet or exceed such standards and regulations before
permits may be issued pursuant to this article. The police chief may require
inspection and approval of all alarm systems installed within the city. (Ord.,
§ 4, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-31. Audible Alarms:
All alarm systems that emit an audible signal that may be heard by persons
outside the protected building, structure or facility shall conform to the
following requirements:
   (1)   Every person maintaining an audible alarm shall provide the police
chief with the names and telephone numbers of the persons to be notified to
render repairs or service and secure the premises during any hour of the day or
night that the alarm system is activated. It is the responsibility of every
person maintaining an alarm system to assure that the names and telephone
numbers recorded with the police department are kept current.
   (2)   No person shall install an audible alarm system which creates a sound
similar to that of an emergency vehicle siren or a civil defense warning
system.
   (3)   No person shall install an audible alarm system which does not
automatically discontinue emitting an audible sound within one-half (1/2) hour
after it is activated. (Ord., § 5, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-32. Prohibited Systems:
   (a)   Automatic Dialing Devices: No alarm system using an automatic dialing
device will be allowed to send a prerecorded voice message or coded signal over
a primary trunk line or direct line into the communications center of the
police department.
   (b)   Panic Alarm: Panic or trouble alarms used to signal any type of fight,
disturbance or any other activity other than an actual or attempted burglary or
holdup will not be allowed. (Ord., § 6, 10-2-1978; Ord. 82-23, § 1, 8-9-1982)
Sec. 8-33. Automatic Dialing Device; Intermediary Services:
   (a)   Persons owning or leasing an automatic dialing device may have the
device interconnected to a telephone line transmitting directly to:
      (1)   A central station;
      (2)   A modified central station; or
      (3)   A licensed answering service.
   (b)   The relaying of messages by intermediate services to the police
department shall be over a signal channel circuit on a person to person basis.
   (c)   The police chief may limit the number of "signal channel circuits"
that come into the communications center of the police department. (Ord., § 7,
10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-34. Police Alarms:
No alarm system equipment, unless police owned and operated, shall transmit any
message on the police base radio frequency. (Ord., § 8, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-35. Responsibility For Alarm Response:
Every person who has on his premises under his control or ownership an alarm
system, audible or silent, shall, upon notification that the alarm system is
giving a signal, proceed within twenty (20) minutes to the premises and render
all necessary services. Provided, however, that the owner of the premises may
enter into an agreement with an alarm business to respond in his stead. Failure
to respond to an activated alarm shall be considered a violation of this
provision and shall result in a penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) ($25.00 if
paid within 30 days). (Ord., § 24, 10-2-1978; Ord. 91-17, § 1, 2-18-1991; Ord.
91-74, § 1, 6-17-1991; Ord. 93-65, § 1, 6-14-1993)
Sec. 8-36. Service Available:
Each alarm business shall have licensed alarm agents and supplies and equipment
so located as to be able to respond to a request for repair or adjustment on
any alarm system that such an alarm business sold, maintained, or inspected
within four (4) hours of the request for this service. They shall respond
within four (4) hours of the request, except that if the request occurs within
the hours that protected premises is open for business or otherwise
substantially occupied, repair or adjustment may be made at any time prior to
closing of the protected premises. (Ord., § 25, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-37. Liability Of City:
The city shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that alarm signals
received by the city are given appropriate attention and are acted upon with
dispatch. Nevertheless, the city shall not be liable for any defects in
operation of any alarm devices or signal lines system, for any failure or
neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an alarm from such a source,
nor for the failure or neglect of any person with a permit issued pursuant to
this article, in connection with the installation and operation of equipment,
the transmission of alarm signals or the delaying of such signals. In the event
the city finds it necessary to disconnect a defective automatic protective
device or signaling device, the city shall incur no liability by such action.
(Ord., § 27, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-38. Conflict Of Interest:
No employee of the police department nor member of any such employee's
immediate family shall have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any alarm
business within the limits of the city. No such employee or member of his
immediate family shall be employed by an alarm business, subject to the
provisions of this article. (Ord., § 28, 10-2-1978)
Secs. 8-39-8-50. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. PERMIT
Sec. 8-51. Generally:
   (a)   Alarm System Permit: No person shall possess or use an alarm system
without first applying for and receiving an alarm system permit therefor in
accordance with the provisions of this article. The permit shall be kept on the
premises where the alarm system is located. The police chief may issue an
appropriate identification number and establish requirements for its posting.
   (b)   Alarm Business Permit: No person shall engage in, conduct or carry on
an alarm business without first applying for and receiving an alarm business
permit therefor in accordance with the provisions of this article. This
includes a central station, modified central station and an answering service.
The permit shall be kept on the premises where the business is located. The
police chief may issue an appropriate identification number and establish
requirements for its posting.
   (c)   Agent Permit: No person shall engage in, conduct or operate as an
alarm agent without first applying for and receiving an alarm agent permit
therefor in accordance with the provisions of this article.
      (1)   Every person engaged in the business of repairing, servicing,
altering, replacing, removing, designing, selling, leasing, maintaining or
installing alarm systems shall carry on his person at all times while so
engaged a valid alarm agent permit and shall display the permit to any police
officer upon request.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this article for the applicant to
wilfully fail to return an identification card to the issuing agency or
business upon termination of his employment with an alarm business. It shall
also be a violation of this article for the alarm business to fail to return to
the police chief an identification card issued by the police chief upon
termination of the employment of the alarm agent.
   (d)   Direct Alarm System Permit: No direct alarm system shall be permitted
within the police department except such as is connected to an indicator panel
installed in uniform consoles with uniform operation within the communication
facilities of such department pursuant to a permit issued in accordance with
the provisions of this article.
      (1)   An owner or lessee of an alarm system may authorize an alarm
business or alarm agent to connect such system to an indicator panel installed
in the communication facilities of the police department in accordance with
this article, upon first obtaining a permit therefor.
      (2)   If the location of the communication facilities of the police
department shall be changed at any time, the cost of moving any alarm system or
parts thereof shall be borne by permittees.
      (3)   The police chief may limit the number of such permits and may set
standards and regulations governing direct alarm systems. (Ord., § 9, 10-2-
1978)
Sec. 8-52. Application-Form:
Applications for all permits required under this article shall be on a form
prescribed by the chief of police and may request such information as is
necessary to evaluate and act upon the permit application. Applications shall
be accompanied by a nonrefundable requisite fee. The fee is established to
cover part of the cost of investigating and processing the applications and
permits. (Ord., § 10, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-53. Application-Investigation; Denial:
   (a)   Alarm Business; Alarm Agent: Every application for an alarm business
or alarm agent permit shall require a picture and fingerprints of the
applicant. The police chief shall conduct an appropriate investigation of the
applicant to determine whether the permit shall be issued. The police chief may
require additional information of applicants which he deems necessary to
conduct his investigation. The permit shall be denied by the chief of police
if:
      (1)   The character or reputation of the applicant is determined to be
inimical to the safety or general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The applicant for the alarm business permit or alarm agent does not
comply with the standards and regulations adopted pursuant to this article;
      (3)   The applicant, his employee or agent has knowingly made any false,
misleading or fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a
permit; or
      (4)   The applicant has had a similar type permit previously revoked for
good cause within the past year unless the applicant can show a material change
in circumstances since the date of revocation.
   (b)   Alarm Systems; Direct Alarm Systems: The permit shall be denied by the
police chief if the alarm system does not comply with the standards and
regulations adopted pursuant to this article. The permit shall be issued to the
person owning, using or possessing the alarm system. If the permit is denied,
the reasons for denial shall be set forth in writing and provided to the
applicant. If the basis for denial can be corrected, the writing shall so state
and shall explain how these corrections may be made and set a reasonable time
limit for making such corrections. The notice of denial shall inform the
applicant that he may appeal the denial and set forth the procedure for appeal.
(Ord., § 15, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-54. Application-Notice Of Information Change:
Whenever any change occurs relating to the written information requested by
this article, the applicant or permittee shall give written notice thereof to
the services division of the police department within fifteen (15) days after
such change or at any hearing conducted under this article if such hearing is
conducted before the notice has been given. (Ord., § 11, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-55. Fees:
   (a)   Permit fees under this article shall be paid to the city collector.
Said fees are as follows:
      (1)   For an alarm system permit, sixty dollars ($60.00).
      (2)   For an alarm business, central station, modified central station or
telephone answering system permit, one hundred dollars ($100.00) annual fee
payable in advance of July 1 of each year.
   (b)   The city reserves the right to own all indicator panels and accessory
equipment for direct alarm systems located within the station. In such case,
each permittee, in addition to the annual permit fee, shall pay an initial
installation fee and an annual user fee, as the same may be established by
ordinance, and uniformly applied to cover the cost of the maintenance of such
facilities. In the event the city decides not to own the equipment within the
station, but to provide for its installation and maintenance by a third party,
it shall establish and regulate reasonable fees and charges which may be
charged permittees. All such fees provided for in subsection (a)(1) of this
section to be charged by the city shall be payable on the date of installation
and shall cover the system until the resident or occupant changes.
   (c)   Regardless of the status of an alarm permit, the members of the police
department will always respond as promptly and effectively as possible to any
and all alarm actuations. However, there will be a service charge for each
false alarm that the police department responds to while the alarm permit is
under suspension or revocation. A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) will be
assessed for each false burglary alarm and a fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) will be assessed for each false holdup alarm that the police
department responds to during this period. This service charge will be
deposited into the city's general citizens' fund. This service charge will not
exempt the permit holder from the violation penalty adopted pursuant to this
article. (Ord., §§ 12, 16, 10-2-1978; Ord. 82-23, § 2, 8-9-1982; Ord. 87-34, §§
8, 9, 4-6-1987; Ord. 91-17, §§ 2, 3, 2-18-1991; Ord. 91-74, §§ 2, 3, 6-17-1991;
Ord. 35-2003, § 1, 4-28-2003; Ord. 012-2009, § 1, 2-2-2009)
Sec. 8-56. Failure To Pay Ad Valorem Taxes:
No permit shall be issued or renewed pursuant to this article if any ad valorem
taxes upon any real property or personal property used directly or indirectly
in connection with the proposed business or service are delinquent. A receipt
of payment of ad valorem taxes shall be provided for inspection to the city
clerk at the time of issue or renewal of a permit. Where a permit has been
issued and ad valorem taxes on such property thereafter become delinquent, the
permit shall be subject to cancellation immediately without notice and without
right of appeal. (Ord., § 26, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-57. Issuance:
Upon approval by the chief of police of applications for a permit or for
renewal thereof, the chief shall endorse his approval thereon and transmit the
application to the city clerk, who shall be responsible for the issuance of
such permit or renewal thereof. (Ord., § 14, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-58. Suspension Or Revocation-Violation Of Article:
Any permit issued under this article may be suspended by the police chief for
violation of any of the provisions of this article. (Ord., §§ 16, 17, 10-2-
1978)
Sec. 8-59. Suspension Or Revocation-Additional Grounds:
The following shall constitute grounds for suspension and/or revocation of a
permit issued under this article:
      (1)   Where an alarm system is knowingly activated by a subscriber, his
employee or agent in a situation where no burglary or robbery is actually in
progress;
      (2)   Where the permittee, his employee or agent has knowingly made any
false, misleading or fraudulent statement of material fact in the application
for a permit or in any report or record required to be filed with any city
agency;
      (3)   Where any alarm business permittee or alarm agent is charged with a
crime involving moral turpitude or where the character, reputation or moral
integrity of the permit holder or his employee is determined inimical to public
safety or the general welfare of the community;
      (4)   Where the permittee has had a similar type permit previously
revoked for good cause within the past year, unless the applicant can show a
material change in circumstances since the date of revocation; or
      (5)   Where an alarm system, while under a valid permit, actuates
excessive false alarms, it shall constitute a public nuisance. There shall be
no penalty for the first two (2) false alarms by the system in any one calendar
year. Thereafter, there shall be a penalty for the third false alarm violation
in said year in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) each or
seventy five dollars ($75.00) if paid within thirty (30) days of the issuance
of the citation. For any additional false alarms in said year, there shall be a
penalty of two hundred dollars ($200.00) each or one hundred dollars ($100.00)
if paid within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the citation. (Ord., § 16,
10-2-1978; Ord. 91-17, § 5, 2-18-1991; Ord. 91-74, § 5, 6-17-1991; Ord. 93-102,
§ 1, 11-15-1993; Ord. 67-00, § 1, 9-11-2000; Ord. 01-2003, § 1, 1-6-2003)
Sec. 8-60. Suspension Or Revocation-Procedure:
   (a)   The police chief, in the case of suspension, shall serve the permittee
with a written order of suspension which shall state the reasons for such
suspension. The order shall be effective immediately if personally served, or
forty eight (48) hours after the same has been deposited in the course of
transmission in the United States postal service. Immediately upon such an
order becoming effective, the permittee shall discontinue the use of any alarm
system requiring a permit under this article and cease all operations conducted
under the authority of any permit issued pursuant to this article.
   (b)   The suspension shall become a revocation fifteen (15) days after the
order of suspension becomes effective unless the permittee files an appeal of
the order of suspension in the manner set forth in this article. Where an
appeal is filed, the order of suspension shall be stayed, pending a final
determination of the appeal. The suspension shall become a revocation if the
decision of the city manager upholds the suspension, unless said decision is
overruled by the city council. The suspension shall be dissolved immediately if
the decision of the city manager reverses the suspension. (Ord., §§ 18, 19, 10-
2-1978)
Sec. 8-61. Appeal Procedure:
   (a)   The permittee shall have a period of ten (10) days after the issuance
of a ticket in order to present to the chief of police or his designee as to
the circumstances surrounding the incident which the permittee considers to be
beyond the control of the permittee or its alarm agent. The chief shall have
the authority to dismiss the ticket upon good cause shown.
   (b)   Failure to file a letter of appeal within the said fifteen (15) days
shall constitute a waiver of appellant's right to review, but the city manager,
in his discretion, may nevertheless grant such review.
   (c)   If the city manager affirms the decision of the chief of police, the
appellant may have a hearing before the city council on said matter. If the
city manager does not approve the decision of the chief, he shall transmit this
decision to the chief, who will comply with same. (Ord., §§ 21-23, 10-2-1978;
Ord. 91-17, § 6, 2-18-1991; Ord. 91-74, § 6, 6-17-1991)
Sec. 8-62. Surrender Of Permit:
If any permit is revoked pursuant to this article, the permittee shall
surrender the permit to the services division of the police department. (Ord.,
§ 20, 10-2-1978)
Sec. 8-63. Renewal:
   (a)   Alarm business permits and alarm agent permits issued pursuant to this
article shall expire annually on June 30. All applications for renewal of such
permits shall be filed with the chief of police on forms provided for that
purpose. The fee for renewal of each permit required hereunder shall be the
same as the initial permit fee and shall be paid to the city collector prior to
the time the permit is issued.
   (b)   Alarm system permits need not be renewed. Any modifications of or
additions to an alarm system will require a new permit and may require an
inspection as determined by the chief. (Ord., § 13, 10-2-1978; Ord. 91-17, § 4,
2-18-1991; Ord. 91-74, § 4, 6-17-1991)
DIVISION 3. FIRE ALARM BUSINESSES, SYSTEMS, AND USERS
Sec. 8-64. Title:
This division shall be known and may be cited as the ROCK ISLAND CITY ORDINANCE
REGULATING FIRE ALARM BUSINESSES, SYSTEMS, AND USERS. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-
2002)
Sec. 8-65. Definitions:
   Alarm Agent: Any person who is employed by an alarm business, either
directly or indirectly, whose duties include selling, maintaining, leasing,
servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing on or in any
building, structure or facility, any alarm system. Exemption: The provisions of
this division do not apply to a person who engages in the manufacture or sale
of an alarm system from a fixed location and who neither visits the location
where the alarm system is to be installed, nor designs the scheme for physical
location and installation of the alarm system in a specific location.
   Alarm Business: The business by any individual, partnership or corporation
or other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, inspecting, servicing,
repairing, moving or installing any alarm system in or on any building,
structure or facility. Exemption: Said definition shall not apply to persons
engaged solely in the manufacture or sale of alarm system components from a
fixed location, and who do not install, alter, maintain, service or plan the
alarm system for a specific location.
   Alarm System: Any mechanic or electrical device which is designed or used
for the detection of fire or its byproducts in a building, structure or
facility or for alerting others of a fire hazard within a building, structure
or facility, or both; and which emits a sound or transmits a signal or message
when actuated and to which the fire department personnel are expected to
respond. In this division, the term "alarm system" shall include the terms
"audible alarm", "automatic dialing device" and "fire alarm system" as those
terms are hereinafter defined. Exemption: The provisions of this division shall
not apply to those detection devices and systems that are not monitored by an
alarm business.
   Answering Service: A telephone answering business providing among its
services receiving, on a continuous basis through trained employees, emergency
signals from alarm systems, and thereafter immediately relaying the message by
live voice over a signal channel circuit to the communications center of the
police and fire departments.
   Appellant: A person who perfects an appeal pursuant to this division.
   Audible Alarm: A device designed for the detection of fire or its byproducts
on premises, which generates an audible sound on the premises when it is
actuated. This audible alarm may or may not be combined with a method of
transmitting a signal to a remote point. Exemption: The provisions of this
division are not applicable to audible alarms affixed to motor vehicles.
   Automatic Dialing Device: An alarm system, which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice
message or coded signal indicating the existence of the emergency situation
that the alarm system is designed to detect.
   Central Station System: A system or group of systems, usually operated from
its customers by a person, in which the operations of protected circuits and
devices are transmitted to, recorded in, maintained and supervised from a
central station having trained operators and guards in attendance at all times,
that have the duty to take appropriate action upon receipt of a signal or
message including the relaying of messages by a signal channel circuit to the
communications center of the police and fire departments.
   City: The city of Rock Island or its authorized employees or agents.
   False Alarm: The intentional or unintentional activation of an alarm system
through mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation or the
negligence of the owner or lessee of an alarm system or of his employees or
agents which necessitates response by the Rock Island fire department where an
actual fire or emergency does not exist. Such terminology does not include, for
example, alarms caused by tornadoes, earthquakes or other violent conditions.
   Fire Chief: The chief of the fire department of the city of Rock Island, or
his authorized representative.
   Modified Central Station: An office to which remote alarm and supervisory
signaling devices are connected, where operators supervise the circuits and
relay the message by a "signal channel circuit" to the communications center of
the police and fire departments.
   Nuisance Alarm: An alarm caused by mechanical failure, malfunction, improper
installation, or lack of proper maintenance.
   Primary Trunk Line: A telephone line leading into the communications center
of the police and fire departments, that is for the purpose of handling
emergency calls on a person to person basis, and which line is identified by a
specific listing among the emergency numbers in a telephone directory issued by
the telephone company serving the city.
   Protected Premises: That part of a building, structure or facility to which
protection is afforded by an alarm system.
   Signal Channel Circuit: A telephone service that only provides a two-way
telephone service from one location to another location.
   Subscriber: A person who buys and/or leases, or otherwise obtains an alarm
signaling system and thereafter contracts with or hires an alarm business to
monitor and/or service the alarm device. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-66. Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this division, unless
otherwise provided, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is
issued a notice of a violation of this division and does not wish to contest
said allegations prior to the time a complaint is issued for said violation,
the person accused may pay to the city finance office a penalty in the sum of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of said violation. (Ord.
37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-67. Purpose:
The purpose of this division is to provide minimum standards and regulations
applicable to fire alarm systems, alarm businesses, alarm agents and alarm
users and to provide for punishment of violations of the provisions of this
division. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-68. Standards And Regulations Enforced By Fire Chief:
The fire chief shall enforce reasonable minimum standards and regulations for
the construction and maintenance of all fire alarm systems installed within the
city as provided in NFPA 72 (the national fire alarm code handbook). All
devices shall meet or exceed such standards, regulations and adopted codes
before their operation is allowed within the city. The fire chief may require
inspection and approval of all alarm systems installed within the city. (Ord.
37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-69. Audible Alarms:
All alarm systems that emit an audible signal that may be heard by persons
outside the protected building, structure or facility shall conform to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Every person maintaining an audible alarm shall provide the fire
chief with the names and telephone numbers of the persons to be notified to
render repairs or service and secure the premises during any hour of the day or
night that the alarm system is activated. It is the responsibility of every
person maintaining an alarm system to assure that the names and telephone
numbers recorded with the fire department are kept current.
      (2)   No person shall install an audible alarm system, which creates a
sound similar to that of an emergency vehicle siren or a civil defense warning
system. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-70. Prohibited Systems:
   (a)   Automatic Dialing Devices: No alarm system using an automatic dialing
device will be allowed to send a prerecorded voice message or coded signal over
a primary trunk line or direct line into the communications center of the
police and fire departments.
   (b)   Panic Alarm: Panic or trouble alarms used to signal the need for help,
medical assistance or any other activity other than an actual fire will be
allowed. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-71. Automatic Dialing Device; Intermediary Services:
   (a)   Persons owning or leasing an automatic dialing device may have the
device interconnected to a telephone line transmitting directly to:
      (1)   A central station;
      (2)   A modified central station; or
      (3)   A licensed answering service.
   (b)   The relaying of messages by intermediate services to the fire
department shall be over a signal channel circuit to the communications center
of the police and fire departments on a person to person basis.
   (c)   The police and fire chiefs may limit the number of "signal channel
circuits" that come into the communications center of the police and fire
departments. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-72. Fire Alarms:
No alarm system equipment, unless city owned and operated, shall transmit any
message on the fire base radio frequency. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-73. Responsibility For Alarm Response:
Every person who has on his premises under his control or ownership an alarm
system, audible or silent, shall, upon notification that the alarm system is
giving a signal, proceed within twenty (20) minutes to the premises and render
all necessary services, provided, however, that the owner of the premises may
enter into an agreement with an alarm business to respond in his stead.
      (1)   Failure to respond to notification of an activated alarm shall be
considered a violation of this provision and shall result in a penalty of fifty
dollars ($50.00).
      (2)   The members of the fire department shall respond as promptly as
possible to any and all alarm actuations. However, there will be a service
charge for excessive false alarms or nuisance alarms to which the fire
department is required to respond. There shall be no penalty for the first
false alarm by the system in any one fiscal year. Thereafter there shall be a
penalty for each false alarm in said fiscal year in the amount of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-74. Service Available:
Each alarm business shall have licensed alarm agents and supplies and equipment
so located as to be able to respond to a request for repair or adjustment on
any alarm system that such an alarm business sold, maintained, or inspected
within four (4) hours of the request for this service. They shall respond
within four (4) hours of the request, except that if the request occurs within
the hours that the protected premises is open for business or otherwise
substantially occupied, repair or adjustment may be made at any time prior to
closing of the protected premises. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-75. Permits:
There shall be no permit required of any alarm businesses, alarm agents or
subscribers for the purposes of this division. The provisions of this division
shall not affect the provisions of any other article within the code of
ordinances of the city of Rock Island and the required permitting as called for
under any other provisions contained therein. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-76. Notice Of Information Change:
Whenever any change occurs relating to the written information requested by
this division, the subscriber shall give written notice thereof to the fire
prevention division of the fire department within fifteen (15) days after such
change or at any hearing conducted under this division if such hearing is
conducted before the notice has been given. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Sec. 8-77. Appeals Procedure:
   (a)   The appellant shall have a period of ten (10) days after the issuance
of a complaint for violation in order to present to the chief of the fire
department or his designee as to the circumstances surrounding the incident,
which the appellant considers to be beyond the control of the system user or
its alarm agent. The chief shall have the authority to dismiss the complaint of
violation upon good cause shown.
   (b)   Failure to file a letter of appeal within the said fifteen (15) days
shall constitute a waiver of appellant's right to review, but the city manager,
in his discretion, may nevertheless grant such review.
   (c)   If the city manager affirms the decision of the chief of the fire
department, the appellant may have a hearing before the code hearing division
(see section
4-148 of this code) on said matter. If the city manager does not approve the
decision of the chief, he shall transmit this decision to the chief, who will
comply with same. (Ord. 37-2002, § 1, 4-22-2002)
Secs. 8-78-8-80. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. AMUSEMENT LICENSES 1 , 2
 
Notes
1 See also time of closing places of amusement, § 10-28 et seq., of this code.
2 65 ILCS 5/11-42-1, 5/11-42-5; 820 ILCS 205/7.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 8-81. Required:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, conduct, manage or exhibit for
gain, within the City, any circus, carnival, theater, game or amusement machine
where money is charged directly or indirectly for admission to see, hear or
operate the same, unless a license for the same shall have first been obtained
from the City. Provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to
any public entertainment given, the proceeds of which are for the benefit of
any religious, charitable or educational institution located in the City. (1963
Code art. 6-2(A); Ord. 16-2000, 3-13-2000)
Sec. 8-82. Issuance:
A license under this division may be issued by the City Clerk upon application
and the payment to the City Finance Department of such sum as the Council may
fix in each case, except where the amount of the license fee is specifically
designated herein. (1963 Code art. 6-2(A); Ord. 043-2017, 11-6-2017)
Sec. 8-83. Scope; Duration; Maintenance Of Order:
Every license issued under this division shall specify the object and length of
time for which it is issued. It shall be the duty of the person licensed to
keep good order about his place of entertainment. (1963 Code art. 6-2(A))
Sec. 8-84. Circuses, Carnivals, Etc.:
   (a)   For each circus, carnival or like exhibition, the license fee shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day.
   (b)   Proprietors of theaters in the City may be licensed for one year, upon
the payment to the City Finance Department as follows:
      (1)   Where the seating capacity is less than 500    $25.00
      (2)   Where the seating capacity is 500 to 1,000    50.00
      (3)   Where the seating capacity is over 1,000      75.00
(1963 Code art. 6-2(A); Ord. 91-14, 2-11-1991; Ord. 92-47, 3-23-1992; Ord. 043-
2017, 11-6-2017)
Sec. 8-85. Automatic Musical Instrument:
(Rep. by Ord. 16-2000, 3-13-2000)
Sec. 8-86. Youth Dance License:
   (a)   Definition; License Required: No person, firm or corporation, either
as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, shall operate or permit to be
operated on any premises, including any enclosed or unenclosed structure, and
the surrounding premises used for parking or any activity used for the dancing
operation in the City for a dance club where an admission is charged and where
any of the participants are under the age of twenty one (21) without first
obtaining a license for use of said premises for said purposes. Only patrons
twenty (20) years of age or younger are allowed on all premises during
operating hours unless they are employees of said club, or a parent or legal
guardian of a patron. Nonprofit organizations shall be excluded upon proof of
tax exemption.
   (b)   Application: To obtain a youth dance license, the applicant shall file
an application with the City Clerk upon a form provided by said Clerk, which
shall contain, among other information, a petition signed by a majority of the
property owners, representing at least a majority of the frontage within three
hundred feet (300') in each direction of the proposed location on both sides of
the street on which the proposed location shall front, signifying their
willingness to have a license issued hereunder; providing that in any case if
the property owners of at least forty feet (40') of the property immediately
adjacent to or abutting on any side of the proposed location shall not appear
as signers on said petition, no license shall be issued hereunder. The approval
requirement of property owners and/or abutting owners can be waived under the
procedure set forth in subsection (j) of this section.
   (c)   Investigation: The City Clerk upon receipt of such application shall:
      (1)   Cause the Police Department to investigate all the statements
contained in each application to determine if the matters and things therein
are true.
      (2)   Cause the City's building inspectors, health inspectors and Fire
Department to inspect the proposed licensed premises to determine that said
premises comply with all City codes and are safe for occupancy as a dance club.
      (3)   If upon investigation the City Clerk shall be satisfied that the
matters and things therein contained in said application are true, and that the
applicant has complied with all the requirements thereof, and that the premises
to be licensed has complied with all City codes and is safe for occupancy, she
shall approve the same and upon receipt by the City Collector of the required
license fee, issue a license in accordance with the provisions herein.
   (d)   Fee: An annual license fee for such license shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00), which shall be paid to the City Clerk. No license issued
herein shall be transferable or refunded.
   (e)   Term Of License: Youth dance licenses shall be in effect for a term of
one year and issued on May 1 of each year, expiring April 30 of the next year.
Prior to the reissuance of a license for an ensuing year, the requirements of
investigation as set forth in subsection (c) of this section shall again be
complied with by said licensee.
   (f)   Display Of License: Any person receiving a youth dance license under
the provisions of this section shall display said license prominently in the
licensed premises.
   (g)   Enforcement: The licensee or agent shall permit any police officer or
other official of the City free and unrestricted access to the licensed
premises for the purposes of inspecting the same.
   (h)   Violations And Penalties: The Chief of Police may suspend, or revoke
any youth dance license granted hereunder if, the operation of the licensed
premises is found to be detrimental to the health or safety of the
neighborhood, or if the licensee has been found to be guilty of the violation
of any City ordinance or State law in the operation of the licensed premises.
In addition thereto the Chief of Police may in lieu of a suspension or
revocation, impose a fine of up to one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for any violation of this section or the laws of the State of
Illinois.
In addition to all other requirements for operation of a youth dance club
contained herein, no licensee hereunder shall allow any loitering, gathering of
unruly individuals or crowds, or any unlawful or dangerous behavior whether
inside of the premises or in any parking lot or other adjacent areas serving
the premises; and the licensee shall have the primary responsibility of hiring
adequate numbers of supervisory personnel as identified in subsection (m) of
this section, and taking other appropriate measures to observe compliance with
this subsection. In the event of a violation of the law has taken place, the
licensee or his agents shall immediately notify the Police Department.
   (i)   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Police Chief to
suspend, fine or revoke a license under this article shall have the right of
appeal. An appeal must be filed within fifteen (15) days after notice of
revocation by filing with the City Manager a letter of appeal briefly stating
therein the basis for the appeal. Failure to file a letter of appeal within the
said fifteen (15) days shall constitute a waiver of appellant's right to
review, but the City Manager, in his discretion, may nevertheless grant such
review. If the City Manager does not approve the decision of the Chief, he
shall transmit his decision to the Chief, who will comply with same.
   (j)   Waiver Of Approval Of Signature Requirement: The City Council may
waive the approval requirements relating to property owners and/or adjacent
owners set forth in subsection (b) of this section after holding a public
hearing concerning said matter at the request of an applicant for a youth dance
license. In the event the City Council determines that it is in the best
interest of the City that said waiver be granted then, in that event, the City
Council shall take official action thereon and refer said matter to the City
Clerk, who then may issue said license if all other requirements for the
issuance of said license have been complied with.
   (k)   Procedure For Waiver Of Approval: Any person that wants a waiver of
approval shall submit an appeal in writing to the City Clerk who will determine
the date of the public hearing in conjunction with the City Council. After said
date is determined, the following procedure shall be followed:
      (1)   A letter will be mailed to all adjacent property owners whose
signatures would normally be required for the approval of a youth dance license
application and said letter shall contain the name of the person appealing the
decision, the date of the public hearing, and instructions for the recipients
to file written objections, if any, and/or attend the public hearing in person.
These letters will be signed and mailed by the City Clerk who will also be the
designated person to receive any written responses relating to the appeal
process.
      (2)   The notice of appeal letters described above shall be deposited in
the U.S. mail at least two (2) weeks prior to the public hearing date and a
copy of said letter shall be furnished to the applicant.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall provide the City Council with a list of
persons to whom the letters are addressed, along with a copy of the form letter
which was mailed to said persons. The Clerk shall also provide a copy of the
written appeal and information concerning the youth dance license requested and
the result of compliance efforts made by the applicant to obtain the required
property owner's signature as set forth in this section. The City Clerk, upon
receipt of written objection(s) to appeal, if any are received, shall furnish
copies of said written objection(s) to the City Council, the applicant, and the
Rock Island Police Department
      (4)   The public hearing, on an appeal, will be held during a regular
City Council meeting using the same procedures at said meeting as followed by
other public hearings held in said Council.
      (5)   At the completion of the public hearing, the City Council will then
consider a motion as to whether or not to make a recommendation to the City
Clerk to waive the signature requirement of subsection (b) of this section.
   (l)   Hours Of Operation: All premises licensed under the provisions of this
section shall be closed between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. each day. It shall be the obligation of the owner or
operator of said youth dance facility to clear all patrons from the premises
fifteen (15) minutes after closing.
   (m)   Supervision: It shall be the obligation of the owner, lessee, manager,
officer or agent of said youth dance facility offering a dance to minors under
the age of twenty one (21) to provide one person twenty five (25) years or
older per each twenty (20) patrons to ensure proper supervision of said
premises. The person or persons provided for supervision shall not be inclusive
of anyone employed to dispense food, beverages, or other operational duties.
All adults who will be on site in the capacity of security or supervisory
personnel shall wear clothing which identifies them as security or supervisory
personnel. The owners shall also provide to the City Clerk the names and
addresses of any managers who will be on the premises during the club's hours
of operation.
   (n)   Curfew: The owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent of any youth
dance facility shall cause any minor patrons to be removed from said premises
one-half (1/2) hour prior to curfew hours regulated by State law. For the
purposes of this section, "curfew" shall be defined as: "It is unlawful for a
person less than seventeen (17) years of age to be present at or upon any
public assembly, building, place, street, or highway at the following times
unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible companion at least twenty-one (21) years of age approved by a
parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which
the laws of this State authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age
to perform: (1) Between 12:01 A.M. and 6:00 A.M., Saturday. (2) Between 12:01
A.M. and 6:00 A.M., Sunday. (3) Between 11:00 P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and 6:00 A.M. on the following day". It is unlawful for a parent,
legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit a person in his custody or
control to violate this section.
   (o)   Insurance: All owners of a licensed youth dance club shall be required
to carry liability insurance with limits of liability in an amount of no less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). The City of Rock Island, Illinois,
must be named as an additional insured under said policy and identified on the
owners' certificate of insurance. Proof of insurance under these conditions is
a prerequisite for the issuance or renewal of any youth dance club license.
(Ord. 084-2010, 12-20-2010)
Secs. 8-87-8-95. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. GAMES 1
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-42-2.
Sec. 8-96. License-Required:
No person shall, within the corporate limits of the City, keep for public use
or let for hire, gain or profit any coin operated amusement or game machine,
including, but not limited to, pool table, dart game, video game, kiddie ride,
without a license issued by the City as set forth in this division. (Ord. 004-
2010, 1-18-2010; Ord. 070-2019, 12-9-2019)
Sec. 8-97. License - Duration; Fee:
   (a)   A license for each game or device set forth in section 8-96 of this
division may be granted for the term of the license year in which the same is
granted or any unexpired portion thereof upon payment by the licensee to the
City Clerk for the use of the City the following license fees: for each coin
operated amusement or game machine, sixty five dollars ($65.00) and for each
video gaming terminal, two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). No license shall be
issued for less than one year, and in no case shall any portion of the license
fee be repaid to the licensee. The license issued hereunder shall be posted in
a conspicuous place in the establishment for which it is issued.
      (1)   Fine; Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of these
sections shall be subject to a fine in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00)
upon the first violation within the license year. Upon each subsequent
violation within the same license year, a fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00)
will be imposed. For any noncompliance incurred within the license year, a
penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) per day will be imposed beginning June 1 of the
license year until such time as licensee has complied with these provisions.
      (2)   Payment Of Penalty: In the event a person is accused of a first
violation within the license year and does not wish to contest the allegation
prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so
accused may, within seven (7) days of the notice of violation, pay to the City
at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for and
in full satisfaction of the violation.
   (b)   The annual license fee for bowling alleys shall be as follows:
 
1 - 25 lanes     $250.00
26 - 50 lanes    500.00
51 or more lanes 750.00
 
No more than twenty one (21) total licenses for video gaming establishments
including licenses in existence at the time of passage of this section shall be
in existence at any time. Once twenty one (21) active licenses are in
existence, no new licenses shall be issued unless and until the number of
licenses falls below twenty one (21). (Ord. 070-2018, 12-10-2018; Ord. 070-
2019, 12-9-2019)
Sec. 8-98. Pool Halls:
   (a)   Definition; License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
conduct or manage a pool hall in the City without having first secured a
license to do so from said City. A "pool hall" for the purposes of this
section, shall be defined as any place or establishment that has on its
premises for public use, or let for hire, one or more pool tables, billiard
tables or bank pool tables. Any person who has a liquor license in the City may
have two (2) such tables on its premises without complying with the
requirements of this section.
   (b)   Application: To obtain a pool hall license, the applicant shall file
an application therefor with the City Clerk upon a form provided by said Clerk.
Said application form shall contain, among other information, a statement of
whether or not the property owners within two hundred feet (200') of the front
door of the proposed location of the pool hall in either direction and on both
sides of the street, object to the pool hall. The City Clerk, upon receipt of a
properly completed application, shall refer same to the City Council for
determination of the issuance of said license.
   (c)   Fee: An annual fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be charged
for a pool hall license.
   (d)   Term Of License: Pool hall licenses shall be in effect for a term of
one year and issued on May 1 of each year.
   (e)   Display Of License: Any person receiving a pool hall license under the
provisions of this section shall display said license prominently in the
licensed premises.
   (f)   Revocation Of License: The City Council may revoke any pool hall
license granted hereunder if, after a hearing before said Council, the
operation of the licensed premises is found to be detrimental to the health or
safety of the neighborhood, or if the licensee has been found to be guilty of
the violation of any City ordinance or State law in the operation of the
licensed premises.
   (g)   Hours Of Operation: All premises licensed under the provisions of this
section shall be closed between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. each day. Liquor licensees are exempt from this provision
based on their individual license option. (1963 Code art. 6-2(H); Ord., 6-2-
1980; Ord. 91-14, 2-11-1991; Ord. 16-2000, 3-13-2000)
Sec. 8-99. Reserved:
Sec. 8-100. Terms Defined:
   For purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meaning
ascribed to them:
   (1)   Gambling. Gambling: Wagering money or something of value on the
outcome of an event or activity where the outcome is uncertain, whether based
upon skill or luck, but with the intent of winning more money or more of
something of value. Examples of gambling include but are not limited to slots,
table gaming, digital and video gaming, sports betting, lotteries, sweepstakes,
and all forms of betting and wagering.
   (2)   Licensed Establishment.  Licensed Establishment shall mean any
licensed retail establishment where alcoholic liquor, wine or beer is drawn,
poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption on the premises, whether the
establishment operates on a nonprofit or for-profit basis. The following
classes of City of Rock Island liquor licenses are classified as Licensed
Establishments for purposes of this article and are eligible for a Video Gaming
Terminal license, if they meet the requirements of this article: Classes
D,E,F,G,I, and K.
   (3)   Digital and Video Gambling: A form of gambling that is facilitated by
a digital or video platform, or video display and microprocessors, often called
a video gaming terminal, that involves playing a video game or interacting with
a digital version of a more traditional form of gambling including but not
limited to slots and poker.
   (4)   Terminal Operator. An individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that is licensed under this ordinance and that owns,
services, and maintains video gaming terminals for placement in licensed
establishments.
   (5)   Video Gaming Terminal. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Board
utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may receive
free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include
a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement
purposes only. (Ord. 070-2019, 12-9-2019)
Sec. 8-101. License Required:
   (a)   No Video Gaming Terminals shall be placed in any Licensed
Establishment unless the owner of the Licensed Establishment holds all required
licensing from both the State of Illinois and the City pursuant to this
article. A Licensed Establishment may have the number of video gaming terminals
currently allowed by the State of Illinois on its premises if it meets all
rules and regulations for Video Gaming licensing through the State of Illinois
and the City. Video Gaming Terminals are not permitted in any other
establishment in the City.
   (b)   No person shall act as a Terminal Operator of Video Gaming Terminals
in the City unless said person holds a valid license for Video Gaming from the
Illinois Gaming Board and has obtained a Terminal Operator license from the
City pursuant to this article.
   (c)   No more than twenty-five (25) liquor license establishments (bars,
restaurants and clubs/fraternal organizations, including members only
establishments not open to the general public) shall be licensed for Video
Gaming at any time in the City. No new licenses shall be issued to a licensed
establishment until and unless the applicant / establishment has met the
following criteria:
      (1)   Been in operation and open to the public for a minimum of six (6)
months.
      (2)   Provides information to the satisfaction of the Liquor Commissioner
that the proceeds from video gaming machines would be secondary to the
applicant's combined proceeds from alcohol and food sales (less than 50% of
total revenue is from gaming revenue) for the location at which the applicant
is making an application for a video gaming license. This percentage shall be
monitored and verified by comparing the licensee's dollar amount indicated on
line 3 of their Illinois Department of Revenue's ST-1 form filed with the State
of Illinois, which indicates their amount of food and beverage taxable
receipts, with the dollar amount obtained from gaming revenues computed as
follows: Net Terminal Income as reported on the licensee's monthly Video Gaming
Report filed with the State of Illinois minus the Net Terminal Income Tax as
reported monthly on the Illinois Gaming Board Video Gaming Report.
      (3)   This subsection shall only apply to gaming licenses issued after
December 10, 2018 and shall not affect any licensed establishments seeking to
renew gaming licenses, which were acquired prior to that date. No new licenses
shall be issued until the number of Licensed Establishments falls below twenty-
five (25).
   (d)   All applicants who either apply for or renew their Video Gaming
License after the passage of this ordinance must file their local food and
beverage taxes at least quarterly with the City of Rock Island. Failure to do
so may result in the loss of the non-complying party's video gaming terminal
license.
   (e)   If no Video Gaming Terminal Licenses are available, applicants may
apply to be put on a "Waiting List" after they have received their City liquor
license. The application must be completed and returned to the Liquor
Commissioner's Office, where it shall be signed, date stamped and held until
such time the required waiting period has been met and a license becomes
available.
   (1)   The applications making up the waiting list shall be considered in the
order they are received, first come - first qualified - first served basis.
   (f)   The final determination on whether an applicant for a Video Gaming
License has satisfied these requirements rests with the sole discretion of the
City's Liquor Commissioner. (Ord. 070-2019, 12-9-2019; Ord. 09-2022, §§ 1, 2,
3-14-2022)
Sec. 8-102. Application; Inspection:
   A person desiring either license required by this article shall apply to the
City Liquor Commissioner's office therefore; the license shall be issued by the
Liquor Commissioner's office upon the certification of the building official
and zoning administrator that the premises for which the license is applied or
for which Video Gaming shall be located complies with all building construction
codes and the zoning and subdivision ordinances of the City of Rock Island, the
fee has been paid, and it has been determined by the Liquor Commissioner, in
his sole discretion, that the provisions of this article have been complied
with or that adequate provision has been made to cause such compliance. (Ord.
070-2019, 12-9-2019)
Sec. 8-103. Fee; Term, Late Penalty:
   (a)   Each Video Gaming Terminal located within the City shall be assessed
an annual fee of one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars ($1,250.00). The
Fee shall be split between the terminal operation and the licensed
establishment pursuant to statute.
   (b)   The term of each license shall be May 1 through April 30. A license
issued pursuant to this article is good only for the term of the license and
the City may, at any time, choose to prohibit Video Gaming within the City
entirely upon expiration of the current license term. A license issued in
accordance with this article shall not vest any type of interest with the
licensee other than for the term of the existing license.
   A license issued in accordance with this article shall terminate immediately
upon the voluntary surrender or revocation of the licensee's Video Gaming
License issued by the Illinois Gaming Board or the Licensed Establishment's
state or local liquor licenses. No license shall be issued or renewed where the
applicant owes a debt, fine, fee, or penalty to the City or has violated any
City ordinance, including, but not limited to, the liquor code, sign code, or
any other of the requirements of this article.
   Any licensee licensed pursuant to the Rock Island Code of Ordinances who
fails to renew applicable licenses by the due date shall be charged a
reinstatement fee equal to the amount of the licensing fee or two hundred
dollars ($200.00), whichever is less. If a licensee does not renew its license
within thirty (30) days after the renewal date, the license shall be considered
to be voluntarily surrendered and shall not be renewed. (Ord. 070-2019, 12-9-
2019; Ord. 09-2022, §§ 3, 4, 5, 3-14-2022)
Sec. 8-104 Transferability; Display:
   (a)   No license issued pursuant to this article shall be transferable from
one person to another or from one premises to another, however, licenses shall
be transferable from one Video Gaming Terminal to another. For licensees that
are a corporation, L.L.C. or partnership, if the percentage of ownership of any
shareholders in that corporation, membership in any L.L.C. or ownership
interest in a partnership changes by more than fifty percent (50%) or if more
than fifty percent (50%) of shares in the corporation are transferred to a new
shareholder or shareholders, then the license is considered to be transferred,
which is not permitted pursuant to this article and any Video Gaming License
owned by that business entity shall be forfeited as of the date of transfer.
   If an establishment that has gaming machines is sold and is re-opening under
new ownership, the new owners may be given priority and not have to enter into
the waiting list line if: 1) the current business is in good standing with all
licensing, all municipal bills, loans, City code requirements and any
delinquencies that exist regarding monies due from the licensed establishment
to the city; 2) the new business maintains the same liquor license
classification and otherwise fits the criteria for operating Video Gaming
Terminals; 3) the new owner applies for and is granted a new gaming license,
the licenses themselves are not transferable; 4) there is no more than a 30 day
period where the business is closed between the closing of the current business
and re-opening of the new business under new ownership.
   (b)   A Video Gaming Terminal license shall consist of a display certificate
describing the number of Terminals exhibited on the premises, the Licensed
Establishment's name and address, and the Terminal Operator's name and address,
and it must be signed by the Mayor and under seal of the City of Rock Island.
   (c)   A Terminal Operator license shall consist of a display certificate
listing by address, the name of the Licensed Establishment within the City
where Terminals are sold, leased, rented, serviced or otherwise placed or
distributed by said Terminal Operator and the number of terminals at each such
Licensed Establishment.
   (d)   In the event the number of terminals change after issuance of a
license, but before renewal thereof, the license shall be considered to have
been amended to a new license; provided, the licensee of the Licensed
Establishment and the Terminal Operator notify the Liquor Commissioner's office
in writing of the change within ten (10) days after the change in number of
terminals has occurred and pay any additional fees required by an increase in
the number of terminals. The license shall then be reissued; indicating the
amended number of terminals licensed. The renewal date of the license, however,
shall not be amended and will remain the same as originally issued. The act of
operation without the notification required herein and payment of fees required
herein shall constitute operation without holding a valid license.
   (e)   Each license issued pursuant to this article shall be displayed at all
times by the Licensed Establishment in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises and in an area accessible to business invitees during all hours of
operation. (Ord. 070-2019, 12-9-2019)
Sec. 8-105. Restrictions On Advertising:
   All Licensed Establishments, Terminal Operators, and Video Gaming shall be
subject to any and all restrictions listed in the City's Sign Ordinance,
Section 4. (Ord. 070-2019, 12-9-2019)
Sec. 8-106. Suspension; Revocation:
   (a)   The Liquor Commissioner in the City of Rock Island shall oversee all
aspects of the Video Gaming Terminal licenses and may fine, suspend or revoke
or refuse to renew a license issued hereunder for cause. The Liquor
Commissioner shall give written notice to the licensee of the cause of the
suspension or revocation or refusal to renew and provide the licensee at least
ten (10) days before such suspension or revocation or refusal to renew is to be
effective to request a hearing by filing such request in writing with the
Liquor Commissioner. If such a request is filed, the Liquor Commissioner shall
schedule a hearing as soon as practicable, but in no case later than thirty
(30) days after a request for hearing has been filed. Pending hearing, a
licensee may continue to operate as long as their licenses are still in good
standing.
   (b)   The City shall have the burden of proof by a preponderance of the
evidence meaning more likely than not that cause exists at any hearing to
suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew a license. The liquor commissioner shall
render any decision in writing and give the licensee a copy thereof.
   (c)   Service of notices and decision required in this section shall be
obtained by mailing same by certified mail or hand delivered. (Ord. 070-2019,
12-9-2019)
Sec. 8-107. Hearing Procedures:
   (a)   Notice of Hearing: Upon receipt of a request for a hearing regarding a
violation of this chapter, the liquor commissioner shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such
hearing and of the particular charge. Notice as herein required shall be served
in person at the licensed place of business at least three (3) days prior to
the date set for hearing. Such hearings shall be open to the public, and
written minutes of all proceedings shall be maintained.
   (b)   Witnesses: Witnesses shall be sworn; but in all respects, hearings
shall be informal, and the strict rules of evidence shall not apply.
   (c)   Record of Proceedings: A complete record of all evidence, testimony
and comments before the commission shall be taken by a certified court reporter
or certified shorthand reporter.
   (d)   Review of Proceedings: Review of the proceedings before the local
license control commission shall be limited to a review of the official record
of the proceedings. No new or additional evidence shall be admitted or
considered.
   (e)   Initial Cost: An hourly fee for the certified court or shorthand
reporter at attendance at the formal hearings before the local license control
commission shall be paid by the city.
   (f)   Costs of Preparation, Transcription of Record: All costs of preparing
and transcribing an official record on appeal to the state license control
commission shall be borne by the licensee requesting a review of the official
proceedings. (Ord. 91-91, 8-26-1991)
   (g)   A decision of a liquor commissioner regarding a parties' local gaming
license shall be considered final and subject to administrative review when the
decision is served on the party pursuant to the paragraph below. Every action
to review a final administrative decision shall be commenced by the filing of a
complaint and the issuance of summons within 35 days from the date that a copy
of the decision sought to be reviewed was served upon the party affected by the
decision, except that:
   The method of service of the decision shall be as provided in the Act
governing the procedure before the administrative agency, but if no method is
provided, a decision shall be deemed to have been served either when a copy of
the decision is personally delivered or when a copy of the decision is
deposited in the United States mail, in a sealed envelope or package, with
postage prepaid, addressed to the party affected by the decision at his or her
last known residence or place of business. (Ord. 070-2019, 12-9-2019)
Secs. 8-108 – 8-110. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. AUCTIONEERS 1
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-42-1.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 8-111. Definitions:
As used in this article:
   Auctioneer: Includes any person, firm, association or corporation that shall
engage in the conducting of auction sales or crying off property at auction
(except those who act by virtue of legal process). The term "auctioneer"
includes those who conduct an auction sale or cry off their own property at
auction, as well as those who conduct a sale of, or cry off, the property of
others.
   Legal Process: Any writ, process or order of any kind issued out of any
court.
   Property: Includes personal property of every kind but not real property,
except where a different meaning is specified.
   Selling At Auction: All sales of property within the City of Rock Island by
public outcry to the highest bidder, as well as to the public offer of property
at a price beyond its value, then lowering the price, or increasing the number
of articles till someone accepts the property offered as a purchase. (1963
Code, ch. VI, art. II(B))
Sec. 8-112. Penalties:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this article, or shall in any
particular wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any of its terms, conditions
or requirements, where no fine is otherwise particularly provided for herein,
shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (1963 Code, ch. VI, art. II(B))
Sec. 8-113. Excluded Sales:
The provisions of this article shall not extend to any officer or person
executing any process or order of any court in this State, selling any property
or effects directed by law to be sold at public vendue, auction or outcry; nor
shall this article apply to property or effects of any deceased person when
sold by order of the executor or administrator of such person; nor to the
property and effects of any bankrupt or insolvent debtor when sold by order of
any court of competent jurisdiction; nor to apply or in any way affect regular
merchants of the City in the sale of any goods, wares or merchandise in their
stores, by retail, wholesale or in any other manner, except by auction; nor to
apply or in any way to affect the sale of household furniture at the dwelling
of the owner, or real estate sold on the premises; nor to any sale had by
virtue of any bona fide mortgage or chattel mortgage. (1963 Code, ch. VI, art.
II(B))
Sec. 8-114. Hours Of Sale:
No auctioneer shall sell or offer for sale any goods, wares or merchandise
between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on
weekdays, and no selling at auction is permitted at any time on Sundays;
provided that the Mayor and City Council upon evidence that the peace and quiet
of the neighborhood will not be disturbed may allow auction sales between the
hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on weekdays,
and for certain designated hours on Sundays. (1963 Code, ch. VI, art. II(B);
Ord., § 2, 4-10-1972; Ord., § 1, 6-25-1973)
Sec. 8-115. Substitution Of Sale Articles:
Any auctioneer who shall exhibit and offer for sale any article, and induce its
purchase by any bidder, and who shall afterwards substitute any article in lieu
of that offered to and purchased by the bidder, shall forfeit his license and
be liable to a fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than fifty
dollars ($50.00). (1963 Code, ch. VI, art. II(B))
Sec. 8-116. False Bids:
No person shall act as a bidder or what is commonly known as a "capper",
"booster" or "shiller" at any auction or place regulated by this article, or
offer or make any false bid to buy or pretend to buy any article sold or
offered for sale at any auction. (1963 Code, ch. VI, art. II(B))
Sec. 8-117. Fraudulent presentations.
Any auctioneer or person being present when any article of property is offered
for sale, who shall knowingly, with intent to induce any person or persons to
purchase the same or any part thereof, make any false representation or
statement as to the ownership of, or the character or quality of the article or
articles so offered for sale, or as to the poverty or circumstances of the
owner or pretended owner of such article or articles, shall, on conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00); and if such false representation is made by
such auctioneer, or by any other person with such auctioneer's knowledge and
consent or connivance, the license of such auctioneer shall be forfeited.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 17)
Sec. 8-118. Advertising.
No bellman or crier, nor any drum or fife or other instrument of music, nor any
show signal, or means of attracting the attention of the public, other than a
sign or flag, shall be employed or suffered or permitted to be used in
connection with any auction sale at or near any place of such sale or at or
near any auction room.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 19)
Sec. 8-119. Sale book.
At every auction sale within the city there shall be kept a sale book in which
each purchaser shall immediately after making a purchase sign his true name and
address, opposite which the auctioneer shall write the name of the article
purchased as the same appears upon said tag and the sale price thereof, and
said article shall be delivered to said purchaser with said tag intact and
attached thereto.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 20)
Secs. 8-120--8-130. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
Sec. 8-131. Exceptions.
Sections
8-134--
8-138 shall not apply to an auction or livestock, used household furniture,
used farm machinery or used cars.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 22)
Sec. 8-132. Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to exercise the business or trade of an
auctioneer, or sell or offer for sale by way of public vendue, auction or
outcry, within the city, any goods, wares, merchandise or other effects
whatsoever, without first having obtained a license and executed a bond to the
city, as provided in this division.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 2)
State law reference--Authority of city to license auctioneers, Ill. Rev. Stat.
Ch. 24, § 11-42-1.
Sec. 8-133. Application--Generally.
An application for a license under this article shall be verified, stating the
name of the applicant; his residence; the street and number of the proposed
place of sale; the length of time for which the license is desired and the date
to begin; whether the applicant has been previously engaged in a like or
similar business; and the name of the owner or owners of the merchandise to be
auctioned.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 3)
Sec. 8-134. Same--Inventory.
The application shall be accompanied by a full and complete inventory of the
stock or merchandise to be sold. Three (3) copies of such inventory shall be so
furnished. The articles enumerated in said inventory shall be numbered, and
tags corresponding to the numbers so shown in the inventory shall be placed on
each article when offered for sale. No additional stock or merchandise (other
than so inventoried) shall be offered for sale or auctioned at any auction held
under any license granted upon such application.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 4)
Sec. 8-135. Same--Filing.
The application and inventory required in this division shall be filed with the
city clerk, by whom any license to be issued hereunder shall be authorized in
accordance with section
8-140, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the granting of the license. (Code
1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 5)
Sec. 8-136. Appointment of inspectors.
The mayor may, upon the ding of an application under this division, appoint an
inspector or inspectors, not to exceed three (3) in number, accordingly as the
requirements of the situation seem to demand, said inspector or inspectors to
be residents of the city and who may be city officials or employees or
otherwise, whose duty it shall be to inspect and investigate said inventory
submitted with said application as aforesaid, and the stock of goods or
merchandise offered for sale thereunder, and who shall either singly or as a
body, as directed by the mayor, attend the auction sales held under the license
when issued, and report to the mayor whether any goods not listed in the
inventory had been offered for sale, and whether the other requirements of this
article are being complied with. Such inspector or inspectors attending any
auction sale shall have with them a copy or copies of the inventory as
originally furnished with the application, and shall check or compare each
article as offered for sale with the inventory. For the purpose of such
inspection said inspector or inspectors shall have access to the place where
such sale is to be held at any time prior to the opening of any such sale. Such
inspector or inspectors shall not receive any compensation for duties performed
hereunder prior to the opening of any such sale, but shall each be compensated
at a rate determined from time to time by the city council for attendance at
any sale held under any license granted hereunder. Provided, however, that no
city employee attending any such sale hereunder shall be entitled to or receive
any extra compensation above his regular salary or wage.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 6)
Sec. 8-137. Sale of uninventoried goods.
Any licensee under this article who offers for sale at any auction sale any
goods or merchandise not included in the inventory filed with the application
for the license for such sale, shall upon conviction thereof be fined not less
than ten dollars ($10.00) or more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for every
such offence. Upon such conviction, the mayor shall immediately declare the
license forfeited, and no further sales shall be held thereunder. No refund
shall be made to any licensee on account of any license paid in advance upon
any such conviction and forfeiture of the license. No appeal taken from any
conviction hereunder shall stay any such forfeiture so declared pending the
final determination of such appeal.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 7)
Sec. 8-138. Period of ownership.
No merchandise shall be sold by any auctioneer licensed under this article,
which has not been the property of said auctioneer for a period of at least
thirty (30) days and which has not been stored or kept at the location at which
the auction is to be held, as set out in the application, for a similar period
of thirty (30) days next preceding the filing of said application, or if the
property to be sold is owned by a person other than the auctioneer, said
property must have been owned by said person for a similar period of time next
preceding the filing of said application for auctioneer's license.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 8)
Sec. 8-139. Bond.
No person shall receive a license to sell goods at auction in the city until he
shall first have executed to the city a bond in the penal sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) with corporate surety approved by the city clerk,
conditioned for the strict observance of all ordinances of the city respecting
auctions and auctioneers and for the indemnification of any purchaser at such
public auction who suffers any loss by reason of misrepresentation at such
auction. The above-mentioned bond shall be kept in full force and effect during
the period for which the license is granted, and shall in addition thereto be
kept in full force and effect for thirty (30) days after the expiration date of
such license.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 10)
Sec. 8-140. Fee.
Any person may become an auctioneer and be licensed to sell personal property
at public auction in this city upon complying with the provisions of this
division relating to the filing of an inventory and bond in the time and manner
herein prescribed, and the payment to the city collector of the sum of fifteen
dollars ($15.00) for each day said license is in force, or the sum of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a yearly license.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 11; Ord. of 2-23-76, § 1)
Sec. 8-141. Transfer.
No license issued under the provisions of this article shall be transferable or
be held to authorize any person other than the one named therein to sell or cry
goods at auction. In no case shall any license be issued to cover more than one
place of business or to authorize auction sales at any place of business other
than the one set out in the application for license. The license shall in all
cases be posted in a conspicuous place where the sale is to be held.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(B), § 12; Ord. of 4-10-72, § 1)
Secs. 8-142--8-155. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. BENCHES
Sec. 8-156. Installation.
It shall be lawful for any person to install or maintain public benches upon
public property for the accommodation of any person or persons awaiting
transportation and to place advertising matters and signs thereon.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(C), § 1)
Sec. 8-157. Size.
No bench, as provided for in this article, shall be more than forty-two (42)
inches high nor more than thirty (30) inches wide, nor more than seven (7) feet
long. No bench shall carry any advertising or sign containing any pictures or
words that would be deemed obscene under Ill. Rev. Stat. Chapter 38, section
11-20, and only such advertising matter shall be placed thereon as is
ordinarily displayed by other advertising media. No advertisement or sign on
any such bench shall mislead or distract traffic. Advertising shall be
displayed only on the front and rear surfaces of the backrest of said benches.
All benches shall be kept in a safe and sightly condition and shall be
inspected periodically by the owner thereof. All of such benches shall be
installed in a location approved by the city council.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(C), § 4)
Sec. 8-158. License--Required.
No bench or benches shall be installed or maintained under this article without
the consent of the city council therefor. Application for the installation and
maintenance of such bench or benches shall give the name of the applicant, the
location where the proposed bench or benches will be installed and such other
information as said city council shall require. All such applications shall be
referred to the chief building inspector and the director of public works for
investigation, and they shall report to the city council their recommendation
of such applications.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(C), § 2)
Sec. 8-159. Same--Fee.
The annual license fee for the installation of each bench under this article
shall be five dollars ($5.00), payable to the city collector on May 1 of each
year. Any license issued for such bench for a term of six (6) months or less
shall be two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50). All such licenses are issued
subject to and with the express agreement of the licensees that any or all of
such licenses may be summarily revoked by the city council in its sole
discretion.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(C), § 6)
Sec. 8-160. Bond.
Every applicant under this article, when the license for the installation of a
bench or benches shall be issued, shall file with the city clerk a public
liability bond, with suitable sureties thereon, to save and keep harmless the
city from any and all damages of any kind or nature through the installation
and maintenance of said bench or benches. The amount of such bond for death,
personal injury or property damage shall be determined by said city council.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(C), § 3)
Sec. 8-161. Removal.
The city council reserves the right to order the removal of any benches, in its
sole discretion, at any time when the interests of the public are best served
by the removal of same. If any such bench is ordered removed by said city
council, no remission of the license fees for the unexpired portion of the
license year shall be made.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(C), § 5)
Secs. 8-162--8-175. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS 1
 
Notes
  State law references--Community antenna television systems, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch.
1 24, § 11-42-11; cable television service offenses, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 38, §
  16-10; antitrust, as applied to cable television, Ch. 38, § 60-3;
  Communications Consumer Privacy Act, Ch. 38, § 87-1 et seq.
Sec. 8-176. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words,
abbreviations and their derivations shall have the meaning given in this
section:
   CATV: A "community antenna television system" as hereinafter defined.
   City: The City of Rock Island, a municipal corporation of the State of
Illinois, in its present incorporated form or in any later reorganized,
consolidated, enlarged or reincorporated form.
   Community antenna television system: A system of antennas, coaxial cables,
wires, wave guides or other conductors, equipment or facilities designed,
constructed or used for the purpose of providing television or frequency-
modulation radio service by cable or through its facilities as contemplated in
this article. CATV shall not mean or include the transmission of any special
program or event for which a separate and distinct charge is made to the
subscriber in the manner commonly known and referred to as "pay television."
   Council: The present governing body of the city or any future board
constituting the legislative body of the city.
   Grantee: The person, firm or corporation to whom or which a franchise, as
described in this article, is granted by the council under this article, and
the lawful successor, transferee or assignee of said person, firm or
corporation.
   Gross annual receipts: Any and all compensation and other consideration in
any form whatever and any contributing grant or subsidy received directly or
indirectly by a grantee from subscribers or users in payment for television or
frequency-modulation radio signals or service received within the city, and
also shall include any other revenues received by a grantee from the sale of
advertising or any other source. "Gross annual receipts" shall not include any
taxes on services furnished by the grantee imposed directly on any subscriber
or user by any city, state or other governmental unit and collected by the
grantee for such governmental unit.
   Street: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
road, highway, freeway, lane, path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway or drive,
now or hereafter existing as such within the city.
   Subscriber: Any person or entity receiving for any purpose the CATV service
of a grantee. (Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1(a--h))
State law reference--"Community antenna television system" defined, Ill. Rev.
Stat. Ch. 24, § 11-42-11.
Sec. 8-177. Franchise to operate.
A nonexclusive franchise to construct, operate and maintain a CATV system
within all or any portion of the city may be granted by the council to any
person, whether operating under an existing franchise or not, who offers to
furnish and provide such system under and pursuant to the terms and provisions
of this article.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-178. Uses permitted by grantee.
   (a)   Any franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this article shall
authorize and permit the grantee to engage in the business of operating and
providing a CATV system in the city, and for that purpose to erect, install,
construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain in, on, over,
under, upon, across and along any public street, such poles, wires, cable,
conductors, ducts, conduit, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant to the CATV
system; and in addition, so to use, operate and provide similar facilities or
properties rented or leased from other persons, including but not limited to
any public utility or other grantee franchised or permitted to do business in
the City. Any franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this article
shall prohibit the grantee thereof from selling, leasing or servicing of
television receivers within the corporate limits of the City.
   (b)   The grantee may make a charge to subscribers for installation or
connection to its CATV system and a fixed monthly charge as filed and approved
as herein provided. No increase in the rates and charges to subscribers, as set
forth in the schedule filed and approved with grantee's application, may be
made without the prior approval of the Council expressed by resolution. (Ord.,
9-28-1970)
Sec. 8-179. Duration Of Franchise:
No franchise granted by the Council under this article shall be for a term
longer than ten (10) years following the date of acceptance of such franchise
by the grantee or the renewal thereof. Any such franchise granted hereunder may
be terminated prior to its date of expiration by the Council in the event that
said Council shall have found, after thirty (30) days' notice of any proposed
termination and public hearing, that:
   (1)   The grantee has failed to comply with any provision of this article or
has, by act or omission, violated any term or condition of any franchise or
permit issued hereunder;
   (2)   Any provision of this article has become invalid or unenforceable and
the Council further finds that such provision constitutes a consideration
material to the grant of said franchise; or
   (3)   The City acquires the CATV system property of the grantee. (Ord., 9-
28-1970)
Sec. 8-180. Acceptance Fee:
The grantee shall, upon the acceptance of this franchise, pay to the City, in
consideration of the granting of this franchise, the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord., 9-28-1970)
Sec. 8-181. Franchise Payments:
   (a)   MCC Illinois LLC shall pay an annual service provider fee to the City
in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the annual gross revenues derived
from the provision of cable or video service to households located within the
City. The 12-month period for the computation of the service provider fee shall
be a calendar year.
   (b)   The service provider fee payment shall be due quarterly and payable
within forty five (45) days after the close of the quarter. Each payment shall
be accompanied by a brief report prepared by a representative of the grantee
showing the basis for the computation. If mailed, the fee shall be considered
paid on the date it is postmarked.
   (c)   For purposes of the calculation of the service provider fee, "gross
revenues" shall mean consideration of any kind of nature including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by MCC
Illinois LLC for the operation of its cable system to provide cable or video
service within the City, including the following: 1) recurring charges for
cable service or video service; 2) event-based charges for cable service or
video service, including but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand
charges; 3) rental of set-top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment; 4) service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including but not limited to, activation, installation, and
repair charges; 5) administrative charges related to the provision of cable
service or video service, including but not limited to service order and
service termination charges; and 6) late payment fees or charges, insufficient
funds check charges, and other charges assessed to recover the costs of
collecting delinquent payments; 7) a pro rata portion of all revenue derived by
the holder of its affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for
advertising or for promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived
from the operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video
service within the local unit of government's jurisdiction. The location shall
be based on the number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional or
national compensation arrangement; 8) compensation received by the holder that
is derived from the operation of the holder's network to provide cable service
or video service with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as
compensation for promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the
holder's network, such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to item
9 of this subsection; 9) in the case of a cable service or video service that
is bundled or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or
applications, the portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other
services, capabilities, or applications shall be included in gross revenue
unless the holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the
revenue from its books and records that are kept in the regular course of
business; 10) the service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   (d)   For purposes of the calculation of the service provider fee, "gross
revenues" shall not include: 1) revenues not actually received, even if billed,
such as bad debt, subject to item 6 of subsection (c) of this section; 2)
refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount of gross
revenues received by the holder of the State-issued authorization to the extent
the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is attributable to cable service or
video service; 3) regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunications
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing, or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or non-video service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders; 4) the sale of cable services
or video services for resale in which the purchaser is required to collect the
service provider fee from the purchaser's subscribers to the extent the
purchaser certifies in writing that it will resell the service within the local
unit of government's jurisdiction and pay the fee permitted under 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service; 5) any tax or fee of
general applicability imposed upon the subscribers or the transaction by a
city, state, Federal, or any other governmental entity and collected by the
holder of the state-issued authorization and required to be remitted to the
taxing entity, including Sales and Use Taxes; 6) security deposits collected
from subscribers; 7) amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service. (Ord. 020-2018, 5-14-2018)
Sec. 8-182. Limitations Of Franchise:
   (a)   Nonexclusive: Any franchise granted under this article shall be
nonexclusive.
   (b)   Privileges Specified: No privilege or exemption shall be granted or
conferred by any franchise granted under this article except those specifically
prescribed herein.
   (c)   Prior Occupancy Of Street, Etc.: Any privilege claimed under any such
franchise by the grantee in any street or other public property shall be
subordinate to any prior lawful occupancy of the streets or other public
property.
   (d)   Transfer: Any such franchise shall be a privilege to be held in
personal trust by the original grantee, and cannot in any event be sold,
transferred, leased, assigned or disposed of, in whole or in part, either by
forced or involuntary sale, or by voluntary sale, merger, consolidation or
otherwise, without the prior consent of the Council expressed by resolution,
and then only under such conditions as may therein be prescribed.
Any such transfer or assignment shall be made only by an instrument in writing,
a duly executed copy of which shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk
within thirty (30) days after any such transfer or assignment. The said consent
of the Council may not be arbitrarily refused; provided, however, the proposed
assignee must show financial responsibility and must agree to comply with all
provisions of this article; and provided further, that no such consent shall be
required for a transfer in trust, mortgage or other hypothecation as a whole,
to secure an indebtedness.
   (e)   Promptness: Time shall be of the essence of any such franchise granted
hereunder. The grantee shall not be relieved of his obligation to comply
promptly with any of the provisions of this article by any failure of the City
to enforce prompt compliance.
   (f)   Functions Of City: Any right or power in, or duty impressed upon, any
officer, employee, department or board of the City shall be subject to transfer
by the City to any other officer, employee, department or board of the City.
   (g)   Recourse Against City: The grantee shall have no recourse whatsoever
against the City for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising out of any
provision or requirement of this article or of any franchise issued hereunder
or because of its enforcement.
   (h)   Other Regulations: The grantee shall be subject to all requirements of
City ordinances, rules, regulations and specifications heretofore or hereafter
enacted or established. (Ord., 9-28-1970)
Sec. 8-183. Rights Reserved To City:
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed or construed to impair or
affect, in any way, to any extent, the right of the City to acquire the
property of the grantee, either by purchase or through the exercise of the
rights of eminent domain, at a fair and just value, which shall not include any
amount for the franchise itself or for any of the rights or privileges granted,
and nothing herein contained shall be construed to contract away or to modify
or abridge, either for a term or in perpetuity, the City's right of eminent
domain.
   (b)   There is hereby reserved to the City every right and power which is
required to be herein reserved or provided by any ordinance of the City, and
the grantee, by its acceptance of any franchise, agrees to be bound thereby and
to comply with any action or requirements of the City in its exercise of such
rights or power, heretofore or hereafter enacted or established.
   (c)   Neither the granting of any franchise hereunder nor any of the
provisions contained herein shall be construed to prevent the City from
granting any identical, or similar, franchise to any other person within all or
any portion of the City.
   (d)   There is hereby reserved to the City the power to amend any section or
part of this article so as to require additional or greater standards of
construction, operation, maintenance or otherwise, on the part of the grantee.
   (e)   Neither the granting of any franchise or any provision hereof shall
constitute a waiver to the exercise of any governmental right or power of the
city.
   (f)   The council may do all things which are necessary and convenient in
the exercise of its jurisdiction under this article and may determine any
question of fact which may arise during the existence of any franchise granted
hereunder. The city manager is hereby authorized and empowered to adjust,
settle or compromise any controversy or charge arising from the operations of
any grantee under this article, either on behalf of the city, the grantee or
any subscriber, in the best interest of the public. Either the grantee or any
member of the public who may be dissatisfied with the decision of the city
manager may appeal the matter to the council for hearing and determination. The
council may accept, reject or modify the decision of the city manager, and the
council may adjust, settle or compromise any controversy or cancel any charge
arising from the operations of any grantee or from any provision of this
article.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-184. Permits, installation and service.
   (a)   Within sixty (60) days after acceptance of any franchise under this
article the grantee shall proceed with due diligence to obtain all necessary
permits and authorizations which are required in the conduct of its business,
including but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment agreements,
microwave carrier licenses and any other permits, licenses and authorizations
to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over
the operation of CATV systems or their associated microwave transmission
facilities.
   (b)   Within ninety (90) days after obtaining all necessary permits,
licenses and authorizations, grantee shall commence construction and
installation of the CATV system.
   (c)   Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the commencement of
construction and installation of the system, grantee shall proceed to render
service to subscribers, and the completion of the construction and installation
shall be pursued with reasonable diligence thereafter, so that service to all
areas designated on the map accompanying the application for franchise, as
provided in section
8-193 hereof, shall be provided within one year from the date that service was
first provided.
   (d)   Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue
each of the foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters set
forth herein, shall be grounds for termination of such franchise, under and
pursuant to the terms of section 8-179 hereof; provided, however, that under
any circumstances the grantee shall complete construction and be in operation
eighteen (18) months after acceptance of franchise. The council in its
discretion may extend the time for the commencement and completion of
construction and installation for additional periods in the event the grantee,
acting in good faith, experiences delays by reason of circumstances beyond his
control.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-185. Location of property of grantee.
   (a)   Any poles, wires, cable lines, conduits or other properties of the
grantee to be constructed or installed in streets shall be so constructed or
installed only at such locations and in such manner as shall be approved by the
director of public works or his designated representative acting in the
exercise of his reasonable discretion.
   (b)   The grantee shall not install or erect any facilities or apparatus in
or on other public property, places or right-of-way, or within any privately-
owned area within the city which has not yet become a public street but is
designated or delineated as a proposed public street on any tentative
subdivision map approved by the city, except those installed or erected upon
public utility facilities now existing, without obtaining the proper written
approval of the director of public works or his designated representative.
   (c)   Any opening in or removal of any pavement, sidewalk or curbing,
street, alley or avenue and all other excavations made by the grantee shall be
made under the supervision and direction of the director of public works or his
designated representative, under permits issued for such work by the proper
officials of the city, and shall be accomplished in such a manner as to give
the least inconvenience to the inhabitants of said city, and the public
generally, and all such pavements, sidewalks, curbings and excavations shall be
replaced and repaired in as good condition as before, with all convenient
speed, by, and at the expense, of the grantee, which shall at all times make
and keep full and complete plats, maps and records showing the exact locations
of its facilities located within the public ways, streets and alleys of said
city. Grantee shall deliver to the city maps showing the locations of all its
underground facilities and shall keep such maps up to date at all times. Said
distribution lines of grantee shall be buried wherever any other utility
distribution lines are required to be, or are being, installed underground.
Wherever possible, both telephone lines and lines of grantee shall be buried
simultaneously in the future; and no additional street crossing with overhead
wires shall be permitted.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1; Ord. of 5-21-73, § 1; Ord. No. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-87)
Cross reference--
Subdivisions, App. B .
Sec. 8-186. Removal and abandonment of property of grantee.
   (a)   In the event that the use of any part of the CATV system is
discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, or
in the event such system or property has been installed in any street or public
place without complying with the requirements of grantee's franchise or this
article, or the franchise has been terminated, cancelled or has expired, the
grantee shall promptly, upon being given ten (10) days' notice, remove from the
streets or public places all such property and poles of such system other than
any which the director of public works or his designated representative may
permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such removal, the grantee
shall promptly restore the street or other area from which such property has
been removed to a condition satisfactory to the public works direct.
   (b)   Any property of the grantee remaining in place thirty (30) days after
the termination or expiration of the franchise shall be considered permanently
abandoned. The director of public works or his designated representative may
extend such time not to exceed an additional thirty (30) days.
   (c)   Any property of the grantee to be abandoned in place shall be
abandoned in such manner as the director of public works or his designated
representative shall prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of the property of
the grantee in place, the property shall become that of the city, and the
grantee shall submit to the director of public works or his designated
representative an instrument in writing, to be approved by the city attorney,
transferring to the city the ownership of such property.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1; Ord. No. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-87)
Sec. 8-187. Changes required by public improvements.
The grantee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect,
relocate in the same street or other public place or remove from the street or
other public place, any property of the grantee when required by the city
engineer by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation,
freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street grade,
installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines and
tracks of any other type of structures or improvements by public agencies;
provided, however, that the grantee shall in all such cases have the privileges
and be subject to the obligations to abandon any property of the grantee in
place, as provided in section
8-186 hereof.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-188. Failure to perform street work.
Upon failure of the grantee to commence, pursue or complete any work required
by law or by the provisions of this article or by its franchise to be done in
any street or other public place, within the time prescribed, and to the
satisfaction of the director of public works or his designated representative,
the director of public works or his designated representative may, at his
option, cause such work to be done and the grantee shall pay to the city the
cost thereof in the itemized amounts reported by the director of public works
or his designated representative to the grantee within thirty (30) days after
receipt of such itemized report. (Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1; Ord. No. 87-22, § 21,
3-23-87)
Sec. 8-189. Faithful performance bond.
   (a)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the filing of and acceptance of
award of any franchise granted under this article, file with the city clerk and
at all times thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of such
franchise or any renewal thereof, at grantee's sole expense, a corporate surety
bond in a company and in a form approved by the city attorney, in the amount of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) renewable annually, and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of grantee, and upon the further condition that in the
event grantee shall fail to comply with any one or more of the provisions of
this article, or of any franchise issued to the grantee hereunder, there shall
be recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of such bond
any damages or loss suffered by the city as a result thereof, including the
full amount of any compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or
abandonment of any property of the grantee as prescribed hereby which may be in
default, plus a reasonable allowance for attorney's fees and costs, up to the
full amount of the bond; said condition to be a continuing obligation for the
duration of such franchise and any renewal thereof and thereafter until the
grantee has liquidated all of its obligations with the city that may have
arisen from the acceptance of said franchise or renewal by the grantee or from
its exercise of any privilege therein granted. The bond shall provide that
thirty (30) days' prior written notice of intention not to renew, cancellation
or material change be given to the city.
   (b)   Neither the provisions of this section nor any bond accepted by the
city pursuant hereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder, shall
be construed to excuse faithful performance by the grantee or limit the
liability of the grantee under any franchise issued hereunder or for damages,
either to the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-190. Indemnification of city.
   (a)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the filing of an acceptance of
award of any franchise granted under this article, furnish to the city and file
with the city clerk, and at all times during the existence of any franchise
granted hereunder, maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and
expense, a liability insurance policy in the amount of three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00), in a company approved by the city manager and in a form
satisfactory to the city attorney, indemnifying and saving harmless the city,
its officers and employees from and against any and all claims, demands,
actions, suits and proceedings by others, against all liability for damages by
reason of or arising out of any failure by the grantee to secure consents from
the owners, authorized distributors or licensees of programs to be delivered by
the grantee's CATV system, and against any loss, cost, expense and damages
resulting therefrom, including reasonable attorney's fees, arising out of the
exercise or enjoyment of its franchise, irrespective of the amount of the
comprehensive liability insurance policy required hereunder.
   (b)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the filing of an acceptance of
award of any franchise granted under this article, furnish to the city and file
with the city clerk, and at all times during the existence of any franchise
granted hereunder, maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and
expense, a general comprehensive liability insurance policy, in protection of
the city, its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees, in a company
approved by the city manager and a form satisfactory to the city attorney,
protecting the city and all persons against liability for loss or damage for
personal injury, death and property damage, occasioned by the operations of
grantee under such franchise, with minimum liability limits of two hundred and
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for personal injury or death of any one
person and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for personal injury or
death of two (2) or more persons in any one occurrence, and fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) for damage to property resulting from any one occurrence.
   (c)   The policies mentioned in the foregoing paragraph shall name the city,
its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees as additional insured
and shall contain a provision that a written notice of cancellation or
reduction in coverage of said policy shall be delivered to the city ten (10)
days in advance of the effective date thereof; if such insurance is provided by
a policy which also covers grantee or any other entity or person other than
those above named, then such policy shall contain the standard cross-liability
endorsement.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-191. Inspection of property and records.
   (a)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit any duly authorized
representative of the city to examine all property of the grantee, together
with any appurtenant property of the grantee situated within or without the
city, and to examine and transcribe any and all maps and other records kept or
maintained by the grantee or under its control which deal with the operations,
affairs, transactions or property of the grantee with respect to its franchise.
If any such maps or records are not kept in the city, or upon reasonable
request made available in the city, and if the council shall determine that an
examination thereof is necessary or appropriate, then all travel and
maintenance expense necessarily incurred in making such examination shall be
paid by the grantee.
   (b)   The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the city engineer and the
city clerk at the times and in the form prescribed by either of said officers,
such reports with respect to its operations, affairs, transactions or property
as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the
rights, functions or duties of the city or any of its officers in connection
with the franchise.
   (c)   The grantee shall at all times make and keep in the city full and
complete plans and records showing the exact location of all CATV system
equipment installed or in use in streets and other public places in the city.
   (d)   The grantee shall file with the director of public works or his
designated representative, on or before the last day in March of each year, a
current map or set of maps drawn to scale, showing all CATV system equipment
installed and in place in streets and other public places of the city.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1; Ord. No. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-87)
Sec. 8-192. Filing generally; office of grantee; refusal of service.
   (a)   When not otherwise prescribed in this article, all matters herein
required to be filed with the city shall be filed with the city clerk.
   (b)   The grantee shall maintain an office within the city limits or at a
location which subscribers may call without incurring added message or toll
charges so that CATV maintenance service shall be promptly available to
subscribers.
   (c)   No person in the existing service area of the grantee shall be
arbitrarily refused service; provided, however, that the grantee shall not be
required to provide service to any subscriber who does not pay the applicable
connection fee or monthly service charge.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-193. Use of utility poles and facilities; agreement.
When any portion of the CATV system is to be installed on public utility poles
and facilities, certified copies of the agreements for such joint use of poles
and facilities shall be filed with the city clerk.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-194. Application for franchise.
   (a)   An application for a franchise under this article shall be in writing,
shall be filed with the city clerk and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is a
partnership, the name and address of each partner shall also be set forth. If
the applicant is a corporation, the application shall also state the names and
addresses of its directors, main officers, major stockholders and associates
and the names and addresses of parent and subsidiary companies.
      (2)   A statement and description of the CATV system proposed to be
constructed, installed, maintained or operated by the applicant; the proposed
location of such system and its various components; the manner in which
applicant proposes to construct, install, maintain and operate the same; and,
particularly, the extent and manner in which existing or future poles or other
facilities or other public utilities will be used for such system.
      (3)   A statement of the number of channels the grantee proposes to make
available in the system, including the number of educational channels to be
provided.
      (4)   A statement indicating the facilities to be given by the grantee to
schools within the city, and to the city government.
      (5)   A statement or schedule in a form approved by the city manager of
proposed rates and charges to subscribers for installation and services, and a
copy of proposed service agreement between the grantee and its subscribers
shall accompany the application.
      (6)   A copy of any contract, if existing, between the applicant and any
public utility providing for the use of facilities of such public utility, such
as poles, lines or conduits.
      (7)   A statement setting forth all agreements and understandings,
whether written, oral or implied, existing between the applicant and any person
with respect to the proposed franchise or the proposed CATV operation. If a
franchise is granted to a person posing as a front or as the representative of
another person and such information is not disclosed in the original
application, such franchise shall be deemed void and of no force and effect
whatsoever.
      (8)   A financial statement prepared by a certified public accountant, or
person otherwise satisfactory to the council, showing applicant's financial
status and his financial ability to complete the construction and installation
of the proposed CATV system.
The council may at any time demand, and applicant shall provide, such
supplementary, additional or other information as the council may deem
reasonably necessary to determine whether the requested franchise should be
granted.
   (b)   Upon consideration of such application, the council may refuse to
grant the requested franchise or the council may by ordinance grant a franchise
for a CATV system to any such applicant as may appear from said application to
be in its opinion best qualified to render proper and efficient CATV service to
television viewers and subscribers in the city. The council's decision in the
matter shall be final. If favorably considered, the application submitted shall
constitute and form part of the franchise as granted.
   (c)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this article shall include the
following condition:
"The CATV system herein franchised shall be used and operated solely and
exclusively for the purpose expressly authorized by Ordinance of the City of
Rock Island and no other purpose whatsoever."
Inclusion of the foregoing statement in any such franchise shall not be deemed
to limit the authority of the city to include any other reasonable condition,
limitation or restriction which it may deem necessary to impose in connection
with such franchise pursuant to the authority conferred by this article.
Sec. 8-195. Franchise renewal.
Any franchise granted under this article is renewable at the application of the
grantee, in the same manner and upon the same terms and conditions as required
herein for obtaining the original franchise, except for the amount of the
franchise acceptance fee payable by the grantee for the renewal of the
franchise, which said fee shall be negotiated with the city council existing at
that time, and except those which are by their terms expressly inapplicable;
provided, however, that the council may at its option waive compliance with any
or all of the requirements of section
8-194 hereof.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-196. Acceptance and effective date of franchise.
   (a)   No franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this article shall
become effective unless and until the ordinance granting same has become
effective and, in addition, unless and until all things required in this
section and sections
8-189,
8-190(a) and
8-190(b), hereof are done and completed, all of such things being hereby
declared to be conditions precedent to the effectiveness of any such franchise
granted hereunder. In the event any of such things are not done and completed
in the time and manner required, the council may declare the franchise null and
void.
   (b)   Within twenty-five (25) days after the effective date of the ordinance
awarding a franchise, or within such extended period of time as the council in
its discretion may authorize, the grantee shall file with the city clerk his
written acceptance, in form satisfactory to the city attorney, of the
franchise, together with the bond and insurance policies required by sections
8-189,
8-190(a) and
8-190(b) hereof, respectively, and his agreement to be bound by and to comply
with and to do all things required of him by the provisions of this article and
the franchise. Such acceptance and agreement shall be acknowledged by the
grantee before a notary public, and shall in form and content be satisfactory
to and approved by the city attorney.
(Ord. of 9-28-70, § 1)
Sec. 8-197. Rate adjustment.
   (a)   A franchisee under this article requesting a rate adjustment shall
give notice to the city clerk of the amount of the proposed rate adjustment and
the effective date of said adjustment. Said notice shall be given to the clerk
sixty (60) days before the effective date of the rate adjustment.
   (b)   The city council may, after consideration of said notice, within
fifteen (15) days of the effective date of the proposed rate adjustment,
request the franchisee to appear before the council to substantiate the basis
for the rate adjustment, and after a hearing on said matter, may either approve
or disapprove said adjustment.
   (c)   In the event the city council does not request the appearance of the
franchisee as provided in subsection (b), then the proposed rate adjustment
shall be effective in accordance with the provisions of the notice given under
subsection (a).
(Ord. of 11-3-79, §§ 2--4).
Sec. 8-198. Tampering with cable television equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an authorized representative of
the cable television franchise holder in the city to charge or supply any
person services from any cable television company with the intent to cheat or
defraud such cable television company by installing, rearranging, connecting or
tampering with any facilities or equipment or by any trick or contrivance or by
any other device or means whatsoever. Further it shall be unlawful for any
person to connect to the facilities or equipment of cable television franchise
holder in the city without authorization from the cable television franchise
holder.
(Ord. of 12-6-76, § 1)
State law reference--Cable television service offenses, 720 ILCS 5/16-10.
Secs. 8-199--8-220. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. RESERVED
Secs. 8-221 - 8-270. Reserved:
ARTICLE VIII. JUNKYARDS AND AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARDS 1 , 2
 
Notes
1 See also solid waste, § 13-21 et seq., of this code.
2 65 ILCS 5/11-2-3.
Sec. 8-271. Definition And Applicability:
   As used in this article, the terms "junkyard" and "automobile wrecking yard"
shall be defined as they are in the zoning code. All regulations contained
within this article shall be in addition to applicable regulations in the
zoning code. (1963 Code art. 6-2; Ord., 10-18-1976; amd. Ord. 37-2024, 6-10-
2024)
Sec. 8-272. License Required:
   All junkyards and automobile wrecking yards shall require a license issued
by the City Clerk's Office in order to operate. A separate license shall be
required for each parcel used as a junkyard and automobile wrecking yard
including when adjacent parcels share the same owner or are part of a single
business operation. Licenses shall be issued on an annual basis. Licenses shall
be issued to the operator and shall be nontransferable. (1963 Code art. 6-2;
amd. Ord. 37-2024, 6-10-2024)
Sec. 8-273. License Application And Fee:
   Applications for a junkyard and automobile wrecking yard license shall be
made to the City Clerk's Office. Said application shall be reviewed for
compliance with the zoning code and all other applicable regulations. If the
application is approved, an annual license fee shall be assessed using a
calculation of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per acre. This calculation shall
be made based upon the total acreage of a parcel and not a smaller section
thereof. This license fee shall be in addition to any other applicable fees or
taxes. (Ord. 043-2017, 11-6-2017; amd. Ord. 37-2024, 6-10-2024)
Sec. 8-274. Bond:
(Rep. by Ord. 043-2017, 11-6-2017)
Sec. 8-275. General Regulations:
   (a)   All junk yards and automobile wrecking yards shall be enclosed by
either a solid wall or fence at least ten feet (10') in height and shall
otherwise comply with fencing regulations found in the City's Zoning Ordinance
and all other applicable City ordinances.
   (b)   All entry points onto the subject property shall be controlled by a
gate so that no person or vehicle may enter without authorization being given
by the property owner or responsible party.
   (c)   No pile of salvage, scrap, junk, or similar materials shall exceed ten
feet (10') in height.
   (d)   No junkyard or automobile wrecking yard shall place or store any
equipment or material whatsoever that encroaches the public right-of-way or
upon publicly owned property of any kind. (1963 Code art. 6-2(K); amd. Ord. 37-
2024, 6-10-2024)
Secs. 8-276 Renewal:
   (a)   All licenses issued hereunder shall be renewed annually. Applications
for renewal shall be submitted to the Clerk's Office at least thirty (30) days
prior to the expiration date of the license.
   (b)   Payment Of License Fees: All license fees established hereunder shall
be paid to the city collector prior to the issuance of any license renewal.
   (c)   No license shall be renewed unless the licensee has paid the annual
license fee, as well as any taxes, fees, assessments, or penalties owed to the
City in connection with the operation of the junkyard or automobile wrecking
yard. (Ord. 37-2024, 6-10-2024)
Sec. 8-277. Denial Of License:
   (a)   If the City refuses to issue a license to an applicant, or refuses to
renew a license, the applicant shall be notified in writing with a statement
about the decision to refuse to issue a license, and a summary of the appeal
process.
   (b)   Upon any denial of issuance or renewal, the licensee/applicant may
request an administrative hearing before the Planning & Zoning Commission at
their next regularly scheduled meeting. Such request for appeal shall be made
within twenty-one (21) days of the issuance of the denial.
   (c)   The provisions of the administrative review law and all amendments and
modifications thereof and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to
and govern all proceedings for the judicial review of final administrative
decisions of the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 37-2024, 6-10-2024)
Secs. 8-278 – 8-290. Reserved:
ARTICLE IX. MASSAGE THERAPY BUSINESSES 3
 
Notes
3 See also ch. 7, “Health Generally”, of this Code.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 8-291. Purpose:
   The State of Illinois licenses massage therapists and their businesses in
accordance with the Illinois Massage Licensing Act. These licensed
professionals perform an important service in addressing the health and well
being of Rock Island residents. Unfortunately, there are businesses that
advertise they provide massage therapy and/or therapeutic services, but
actually engage in various illegal activities. This article is not intended to
discourage a legitimately licensed massage therapist or massage therapy
business from providing their services in the City of Rock Island. The purpose
of this article is to identify and address businesses that engage in the
practice of massage therapy without a license and/or are involved in illegal
activities. Businesses providing massage therapy yet conducting various types
of illegal activity are harmful to both the City of Rock Island and the massage
therapy profession. (Ord. 058-2019, 10-28- 2019)
Sec. 8-292. Definitions:
   Massage Therapy: A system of structured palpation or movement of the soft
tissue of the body. The system may include, but is not limited to, techniques
such as effleurage or stroking and gliding, petrissage or kneading, tapotement
or percussion, friction, vibration, compression, and stretching activities as
they pertain to massage therapy. These techniques may be applied by a licensed
massage therapist with or without the aid of lubricants, salt or herbal
preparations, hydromassage, thermal massage, or a massage device that mimics or
enhances the actions possible by human hands. The purpose of the practice of
massage, as licensed under the Illinois Massage Licensing Act, is to enhance
the general health and well-being of the mind and body of the recipient.
"Massage" does not include the diagnosis of a specific pathology. "Massage"
does not include those acts of physical therapy or therapeutic or corrective
measures that are outside the scope of massage therapy practice as defined in
the Illinois Massage Licensing Act.
   Massage Therapist: An individual who has been licensed by the State of
Illinois to perform massage therapy.
   Massage Therapy Business: A place of business where massage therapy is
practiced or administered. (Ord. 058-2019, 10-28-2019)
Sec. 8-293. Licensing:
   (a)   No person shall employ or contract with a person to perform massage
therapy unless the person is a licensed massage therapist. No person shall
perform massage therapy unless the person is a licensed by the State of
Illinois, unless exempted by the Illinois Massage Licensing Act. No person
shall engage in or offer to engage in the practice of massage therapy or use
the initial "LMT" or the words "licensed massage therapist", "massage
therapist", "masseur", "masseuse" or any other word or title that implies or
represents that a person practices massage therapy at the business, unless the
person possesses a state license.    
   (b)   Each massage therapist shall keep their license in possession at all
times while doing business in the city and shall, upon the request of
prospective customers or city staff, exhibit the license as evidence of
compliance with all requirements of this article.    
   (c)   A massage therapy business shall immediately produce upon request by
city staff the following information.    
      (1)   Name of the business.
      (2)   Names of the business owners.
      (3)   Names and mailing addresses of all individuals who have an
ownership interest in the business.    
      (4)   Names of all massage therapists employed or contracted by the
business and their State license numbers.    
      (5)   Names and addresses of all other persons who work on the business
premises whether employees or independent contractors of the business along
with a description of the work performed.
      (6)   Government issued photo identification card for all employees or
independent contractors of the business to verify and confirm identify of
individuals referenced above. (Ord. 058-2019, 10-28-2019)
Sec. 8-294. Hours of Operation:
Massage therapy businesses shall not be open for business nor shall patrons be
permitted on the premises between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and
five o’clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord. 058-2019, 10-28-2019)
Sec. 8-295. Penalties:
   (a)   If the requested business information described in Sec.
8-293  of this article is not immediately produced to city staff upon request,
the business premises may be placarded. If the business information that is
produced is either inaccurate or incomplete, the business may be placarded.
   (b)   The Chief of Police or their designee shall place in a highly
noticeable location a placard stating "Unlicensed Massage Therapy Business: It
is unlawful to provide or receive massage therapy services at this location.
Violators are subject to criminal and/or civil penalty per the Rock Island
Massage Business Ordinance." This notice shall remain posted until required
business information is obtained by the city or other legal use has been
established.    
   (c)   No person shall remove the placard without approval of the Police
Chief or their designee.
   (d)   No person shall continue to offer or receive "massage therapy"
services after a massage therapy business has been placarded unless the Police
Chief or their designee has approved the removal of the placard.
   (e)   Any person found continuing to offer or receive "massage therapy"
services after that establishment has been placarded may be subject to a simple
misdemeanor charge pursuant to state law. (Ord. 058-2019, 10-28-2019)
Secs. 8-296 – 8-355. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT
Sec. 8-316. Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the city, the operation of a massage establishment as defined in this article,
without first having obtained a permit from the chief of police, after approval
by the health officer.
(Ord. of 1-17-77, § 1)
Sec. 8-317. Application--Filing; fee.
   (a)   Every applicant for a permit to maintain, operate or conduct a massage
establishment shall file an application in duplicate under oath with the chief
of police under a form provided by said chief of police and pay a nonrefundable
filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to the city collector, who shall
issue a receipt which shall be attached to the application filed with the chief
of police.
   (b)   The chief of police shall within five (5) days refer copies of said
application to the health department, building inspection department, fire
department and planning department. These departments shall within thirty (30)
days inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage establishment
and make written recommendations to the chief of police concerning compliance
with the codes that they administer.
   (c)   Within ten (10) days of receipt of the recommendations of the
aforementioned departments, the chief of police shall notify the applicant that
his application is granted, denied or held for further investigation. The
period of such additional investigation shall not exceed an additional thirty
(30) days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the conclusion of
such additional investigation the chief of police shall advise the applicant in
writing whether the application is granted or denied.
   (d)   Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation,
the chief of police shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for
such action.
   (e)   The failure or refusal of the applicant to promptly give any
information relevant to the investigation of the application or his or her
refusal or failure to appear at any reasonable time and place for examination
under oath regarding the said application or his or her refusal to submit to or
cooperate with any inspection required by this article shall constitute an
admission by the applicant that he or she is ineligible for such permit and
shall be grounds for denial thereof by the chief of police.
(Ord. of 1-17-77, § 1)
Sec. 8-318. Same--Contents.
   (a)   The application for a permit to operate a massage establishment shall
set forth the exact nature of the massage to be administered and the proposed
place of business and facilities therefor.
   (b)   In addition to the foregoing, any applicant for a permit, including
any partner or limited partner of a partnership applicant, and any officer or
director of a corporate applicant and any stockholder holding more than ten
(10) percent of the stock of a corporate applicant shall furnish the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address.
      (2)   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years
of age.
      (3)   All residential addresses for the past three (3) years.
      (4)   The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair.
      (5)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the
three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application.
      (6)   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant;
whether such person, in previously operating in this or an other city or state
under license, has had such license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor
and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension
or revocation.
      (7)   All criminal or city ordinance violation convictions, forfeiture of
bond and pleadings of nolo contendere on all charges, except minor traffic
violations.
      (8)   The fingerprints and photograph of the applicant.
      (9)   If the applicant is a corporation, or a partner of a partnership is
a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown
in its articles of incorporation.
(Ord. of 1-17-77, § 1)
Sec. 8-319. Facilities.
No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the appropriate city inspectors reveals that the establishment
complies with each of the following minimum requirements:
   (1)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and showers
shall be made waterproof with approved waterproofed materials and shall be
installed in accordance with the city's building code. Plumbing fixtures shall
be installed in accordance with the city's plumbing code.
      a.   For toilet rooms, toilet room vestibules and rooms containing
bathtubs, there shall be a waterproof floor covering, which will be carried up
all walls to a height of at least six (6) inches. Floor shall be covered up on
base with at least three-fourth-inch cover. The walls of all toilet rooms and
rooms containing bathtubs shall be finished to a height of six (6) feet with a
smooth, non-absorbent finish surface of Keene cement, tile or similar material.
      b.   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have waterproof floors,
walls and ceilings approved by the inspector.
      c.   Floors or wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to one
(1) or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer. (Exception: Dry heat
rooms with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor
drains.
      d.   A source of hot water must be available within the immediate
vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to facilitate cleaning.
   (2)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When five
(5) or more employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the
same time, separate toilet facilities shall be provided. A single water closet
per sex shall be provided for each twenty (20) or more employees or patrons of
that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinal may be substituted for water
closets after one water closet has been provided. All toilet rooms shall be
equipped with self-closing doors opening in the direction of ingress to the
toilet rooms. Toilets shall be designates as to the sex accommodated therein.
   (3)   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running water
shall be installed in either the toilet room or the vestibule. Lavatories or
washbasins shall be provided with soap in a dispenser and with sanitary towels.
   (4)   All portions of massage establishments and baths shall be provided
with adequate light and ventilation by means of windows or sky lights with an
area of not less than one-eighth of the total floor area, or shall be provided
with approved artificial light and a mechanically operating ventilating system.
When windows or skylights are used for ventilation, at least one-half of the
total required window area shall be operable. To allow for adequate
ventilation, cubicles, rooms and areas provided for patrons' use not served
directly by a required window, skylight or mechanical system of ventilation
shall be constructed so that the height of partitions does not exceed seventy-
five (75) percent of the floor-to-ceiling height of the area in which they are
located.
   (5)   All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the city's electrical code.
(Ord. of 1-17-77, § 1)
Sec. 8-320. Issuance; duration.
Upon receipt of the recommendations of the departments referred to in section
8-317, and the certificate of the health officer that the establishment is in
compliance with all of the requirements of section 8-296, the chief of police
shall issue a permit to maintain, operate or conduct a massage establishment,
unless he finds:
   (1)   That the operation as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would
not have complied with all applicable laws, including but not limited to, the
building, health, planning, housing, zoning and fire codes of the city; or
   (2)   That the applicant and any other person who will be directly or
indirectly engaged in the management and operation of a massage establishment
has been convicted of:
      a.   A felony.
      b.   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children.
      c.   Prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, pandering, keeping a
place of prostitution, pimping or other offense opposed to decency and
morality.
The chief of police, at his discretion, may issue a permit to any person
convicted of any of the crimes in paragraph (2)(a)--c) if he finds that such
conviction occurred at least four (4) years prior to the date of application,
the applicant has had no subsequent convictions and the applicant has shown
evidence of rehabilitation sufficient to warrant the public trust. Every
massage establishment permit issued pursuant to this subdivision will terminate
at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner
suspended or revoked.
(Ord. of 1-17-77, § 1)
Cross references--Buildings and building regulations, ch. 4; fire prevention
and protection, ch. 6; health, ch. 7; planning and development, ch.11;
zoning, app. A .
Sec. 8-321. Transfer.
No permit for the operation of a massage establishment issued pursuant to the
provisions of this article shall be transferable except with the written
consent of the chief of police and approval of the health officer, provided,
however, that upon the death or incapacity of the permittee the massage
establishment may continue in business for a reasonable period of time to allow
for an orderly transfer of the permit.
(Ord. of 1-17-77, § 1)
Sec. 8-322. Revocation; suspension.
   (a)   Any permit issued for a massage establishment may be revoked or
suspended by the chief of police after a hearing for good cause or in any case
where any of the provisions of this article are violated or any employee of the
permittee, including a masseur or masseuse, is engaged in any conduct at
permittee's place of business which violates any of the provisions of this
article or any state law which provides for imprisonment, and permittee has
actual or constructive knowledge of such violation or the permittee should have
actual or constructive knowledge by due diligence, or where any applicant has
made a false statement on an application for a permit under this article or in
any case where the permittee or licensee refuses to permit any duly authorized
police officer or health inspector of the city and the county to inspect the
premises or the operations therein. Such permit may also be revoked or
suspended by the chief of police, after hearing, upon the recommendations of
the health officer that such business is being managed, conducted or maintained
without regard for the public health or health of patrons or customers or
without due regard to proper sanitation or hygiene.
   (b)   Any violation of this article by any employee of the permittee,
including a masseur or masseuse, shall be cause for suspension of the permit
for not more than thirty (30) days in the first instance. Any subsequent
violation of this article by any employee of the permittee, including a masseur
or masseuse, shall be cause for suspension or revocation of the permit.
   (c)   The chief of police, before revoking or suspending any permit, shall
give the permittee at least ten (10) days written notice of the charges against
him or her and the opportunity for a public hearing before the chief of police,
at which time the permittee may present evidence bearing upon the questions. In
such cases, the charges shall be specific and in writing.
(Ord. of 1-17-77, § 1)
Secs. 8-323--8-335. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. MASSEUR OR MASSEUSE PERMIT
Sec. 8-336. Required; fee.
Any person, including an applicant for massage establishment permit, who
engages in the practice of massage as defined in this article, shall file an
application for a masseur or masseuse permit with the chief of police upon a
form provided by said chief of police and shall pay a nonrefundable filing fee
of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for an original application and twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) for a renewal application, to the city collector, who shall
issue a receipt which shall be attached to the application filed with the chief
of police.
(Ord. of 1-7-77, § 1; Ord. No. 91-14, § 8, 2-11-91)
Sec. 8-337. Application form.
The application for a masseur or masseuse license shall contain the following:
   (1)   Name and residence address.
   (2)   Social security number and driver's license number, if any.
   (3)   Applicant's weight, height, color of hair and eyes.
   (4)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
   (5)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the three (3)
years immediately preceding the date of application.
   (6)   Whether such person has ever been convicted of any crime, except
misdemeanor traffic violations. If any person mentioned in this paragraph has
been so convicted, a statement must be made giving the place and court in which
such conviction was had, the specific charge under which the conviction was
obtained and the sentence imposed as a result of such conviction.
   (7)   The name and address of the recognized school attended, the date
attended and a copy of the diploma or certificate of graduation awarded the
applicant showing that the applicant has completed not less than seventy (70)
hours of instruction.
   (8)   The chief of police shall have the right to take fingerprints and a
photograph of the applicant and the right to confirm the information submitted.
(Ord., 1-17-1977)
Sec. 8-338. Issuance:
The chief of police may issue a masseur or masseuse permit within twenty one
(21) days following a hearing unless he finds that the applicant for a masseur
or masseuse permit has been convicted of an offense involving the use of force
and violence on the person of another that amounts to a felony. (Ord., 1-17-
1977)
Sec. 8-339. Revocation:
A masseur or masseuse permit issued by the chief of police shall be revoked or
suspended where it appears that the masseur or masseuse has been convicted of
any offense which would be cause for denial of a permit upon an original
application, has made a false statement on an application for a permit or has
committed an act in violation of this article. The chief of police in revoking
or suspending a masseur or masseuse permit shall give the permit holder a
written notice specifying the grounds therefor. Such person may within ten (10)
days of such revocation or suspension file a written request with the chief of
police for a public hearing before the chief, at which time the masseur or
masseuse may present evidence at the hearing upon the question. The decision of
the chief of police upon such hearing shall be a final appealable order. (Ord.,
1-17-1977)
Secs. 8-340 - 8-355. Reserved:
ARTICLE X. PAWNBROKERS 1
 
Notes
1 205 ILCS 510/1; 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5 et seq.
Sec. 8-356. Definition:
Any person who lends money on deposit or pledge of personal property, bonds,
notes or other valuable things or securities, or who deals in the purchasing of
personal property on condition of selling the same back again at a stipulated
price, is, for the purposes of this article, a pawnbroker. (1963 Code § 6-2(L)-
2)
Sec. 8-357. License - Required:
No person shall exercise or carry on the business of pawnbroker within the city
without being duly licensed therefor. (1963 Code § 6-2(L)-1)
Sec. 8-358. License - Duration; Bond; Fee:
The city clerk with the approval of the city council shall grant a pawnbroker's
license to any person of good character who may apply therefor, upon said
person giving bond with approved security in the sum of five hundred dollars
($500.00), conditioned upon the faithful observance of all ordinances of the
city applicable to the business so licensed and paying to the city collector
the sum required for said license. Said license may be issued for six (6)
months or for one year, but not beyond the end of the municipal year, and the
applicant shall pay therefor, for one year, two hundred dollars ($200.00) and
for six (6) months, one hundred dollars ($100.00). (1963 Code § 6-2(L)-3; Ord.,
2-23-1976)
Sec. 8-359. Hours Of Business:
No person licensed under this article shall receive on deposit or pledge any
personal property or other valuable thing before six o'clock (6:00) A.M. nor
after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. during January, February, March, April,
October, November and December of each year, nor before five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. nor after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. during the months of May, June, July,
August and September of each year. (1963 Code § 6-2(L)-9)
Sec. 8-360. Time Of Redemption Or Removal Of Pledge:
No personal property received in deposit or pledge by any person licensed under
this article shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed or removed from the
place of business of such licensed person for twenty four (24) hours after a
report required to be delivered to the chief of police shall have been
delivered as required by 205 Illinois Compiled Statutes 510/7. (1963 Code § 6-2
(L)-8)
Sec. 8-361. Dealings With Minors 2 :
No person licensed under this article shall take or receive in pawn or purchase
any article, property or effects from any minor, or claimed by any minor. (1963
Code § 6-2(L)-10)
 
Notes
2 755 ILCS 5/11-1.
Secs. 8-362 - 8-375. Reserved:
ARTICLE XI. PEDDLERS 3
 
Notes
3 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5, 5/11-53-2, 5/11-53-3; 815 ILCS.
Sec. 8-376. Ordinances Not Affected By Code:
Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance relating to peddlers, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized
as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at
length in this code. (1963 Code art. 6-2)
Secs. 8-377 - 8-395. Reserved:
ARTICLE XII. TAXICABS 4 , 5
 
Notes
4 See § 9-34, cab stands, of this code.
5 65 ILCS 5/11-42-4, 5/11-42-6.
Sec. 8-396. License - Required:
No automobile, autocar, cab or other similar vehicle shall be used for the
transportation of persons for hire within the city, whether said vehicle
secures its passengers from a public stand or stands upon the street or whether
the same is kept in a private garage, unless every such vehicle is licensed as
provided in this article. (1963 Code § 6-2(T)-1)
Sec. 8-397. License - Application; Fee; Term; Bond; Insurance 6 :
   (a)   The owner of any automobile, autocar, cab or other similar vehicle for
which it is desired to secure a license under this article shall make
application to the city clerk setting forth therein the name of such owner or
owners, a description of the vehicle for which it is desired to secure a
license and the place where such vehicle is kept, if the same is kept in a
private garage. The applicant shall be provided the application form by said
city clerk. The city clerk, upon receipt of such application, shall issue or
cause to be issued a license for such vehicle upon payment by the applicant of
a license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum. Such license fee shall be
paid to the city collector, and upon payment thereof, a license shall be
issued, attested by the city clerk, authorizing the use of such vehicle in
accordance with the provisions of this article until the expiration of such
license. And each license when granted shall expire at the end of the municipal
year following the issuance of such license.
   (b)   Provided, however, that the owner of any such automobile, autocar,
cab, motor vehicle or other similar vehicle shall first exhibit to the city
clerk a certificate issuing from the office of the secretary of state of
Illinois, or an affidavit of said owner certifying that he, his agent, servant
or operator has fully complied with the requirements of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes governing chauffeurs engaged in driving automobiles, motor vehicles or
similar vehicles for hire, and further certifying that said owner, his agent or
operators have posted good and sufficient bond or policy of insurance to the
office of the secretary of state of Illinois pursuant to the requirement of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes governing the same. Said requirements of said
Illinois Compiled Statutes are incorporated as requirements of this section by
reference thereto. Failure of any owner or operator licensed hereunder to file
such certificate or affidavit with the city clerk, after ten (10) days' notice
given to him by said clerk to so file, shall be deemed sufficient ground for
revocation of any license issued hereunder. Failure to perform the requirements
of this section shall be deemed an offense and shall subject any such offender
to the penalties provided for a violation of this code. (1963 Code § 6-2(T)-2;
Ord., 2-23-1976)
 
Notes
6 See § 2-2, "Municipal Year", of this code.
Sec. 8-398. Limitation Of Licenses:
   (a)   The total number of taxicab licenses which shall be issued by the city
shall not exceed fifty (50).
   (b)   Prior to the granting of a license to new applicants for licenses
under the provisions of this article, the application shall be referred to the
city council for its investigation and recommendation. All new applicants shall
submit their fingerprints to the Rock Island police department and submit the
required, nonrefundable processing fee for the purpose of conducting a criminal
history check prior to the issuance of a taxicab license. (1963 Code § 6-4(T)-
4; Ord. 006-2017, 2-13-2017)
Sec. 8-399. Taxicab Drivers - Investigation:
At the time a taxicab driver is hired by any licensee under this article, said
licensee shall submit to the chief of police the name of said driver and any
background information said licensee has concerning said driver and also an
authorization in writing from said driver authorizing the police department to
make a background check of said driver, including checking of any available
criminal record, along with the required, nonrefundable processing fee for the
purpose of conducting said criminal history check. Upon receipt of said
information, authorization and the required fee, the chief of police shall make
or cause to be made a careful and diligent inquiry as to the character and
record of said driver for honesty, sobriety and capability, and if it shall be
found that such applicant is lacking in any of such respects, the chief of
police shall notify the licensee of the information that resulted from said
investigation. (Ord. 006-2017, 2-13-2017)
Sec. 8-400. Taxicab Drivers - License Fee:
The annual license fee for a taxicab driver shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) or
ten dollars ($10.00) if purchased after October 31 of the same license year,
and such annual licensing period shall commence on May 1 of each year. (1963
Code § 6-2(T)-14; Ord., 8-10-1981; Ord. 87-34, 4-6-1987)
Sec. 8-401. Taxicab Drivers - Record:
   (a)   The chief of police shall keep at his office a record in which shall
be kept the name and residence of each licensed driver or operator together
with the names of persons endorsing his application, and shall carefully note
opposite each such licensed driver's name such information as he may gain
concerning said licensee and as may be necessary to provide a complete record
of said licensee's conduct and qualifications as a driver or operator.
   (b)   The chief of police may suspend or revoke any taxicab driver's license
when in his opinion the licensee does not have the qualifications specified in
this article for said license. (1963 Code § 6-2(T)-13)
Sec. 8-402. Taxicab Drivers - Transfer Of License:
It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer any taxicab driver's license
from one person to another. (1963 Code § 6-2(T)-15)
Sec. 8-403. Safety Inspection:
   (a)   All vehicles used and licensed as taxicabs shall at all times be
maintained in proper mechanical condition. It shall be necessary to present the
city clerk an affidavit that the particular vehicle used has a license to
operate as a taxicab for said vehicle.
   (b)   The chief of police shall have the authority to order the owners of
any vehicles used as taxicabs in the city to take said vehicles out of
operation if said vehicles are found to be in unsafe mechanical condition. Said
vehicles shall remain out of operation until proper repairs on said vehicles
are made to place said vehicles in proper mechanical condition. (1963 Code § 6-
2(T)-3)
Sec. 8-404. Public Stands:
   (a)   Use: Any automobile, autocar, cab or other similar vehicle licensed
under the provisions of this article may stand at such places, and at no other
places, as may from time to time be designated by the council for that purpose.
   (b)   Location:
      (1)   General: The following places are public stands where taxicabs,
autocars and all other vehicles let to hire or used for transporting persons or
property for hire shall stand while waiting for such employment:
         a.   One parking space on the west side of Seventeenth Street between
Second and Third Avenues immediately north of the Sheraton Hotel driveway.
         b.   One parking space on the south side of Third Avenue between
Nineteenth and Twentieth Streets.
         c.   Two (2) parking spaces on the north side of Second Avenue between
Nineteenth and Twentieth Streets.
         d.   Two (2) parking spaces on the south side of Second Avenue
immediately west of Nineteenth Street.
The chief of police shall assign the above spaces to the respective taxicab
companies or concerns. When such spaces or stands have been so assigned, no
other taxicab company or concern shall use any other taxicab space, except the
space or spaces to which they have been assigned as aforesaid.
      (2)   Public Places: Public stands shall also be deemed to exist at
hotels, theaters and other public places at such times and for such length of
time as may be reasonably necessary for the receiving and discharging of
passengers at such places.
   (c)   Parking - Distance From Corner: No automobile, autocar, cab or other
similar vehicle entitled to use such stands shall be permitted to stand
anywhere thereon in such manner as to obstruct the entrance to any building,
structure or place, nor shall any automobile, autocar or other similar vehicle
entitled to use stands be permitted to stand within twenty feet (20') of any of
the intersecting streets or avenues upon which any of the stands are located.
   (d)   Parking - Off Street Facilities: No automobile, autocar, cab or other
similar vehicle licensed under the provisions of this article shall park in or
occupy any of the off street parking facilities of the city. (1963 Code § 6-2
(T)-5; Ord. 85-19, 6-24-1985; Ord. 88-73, 12-19-1988)
Sec. 8-405. Designation Of Car:
Every automobile, autocar, cab or other similar vehicle licensed under the
provisions of this article shall have the name of the owner thereof plainly
painted in letters at least one and one-half inches (11/2") in height, and the
number at least four inches (4") in height, in a conspicuous place on the
outside of each side of such vehicle, and such name and number shall be kept so
painted plainly and distinctly at all times while such vehicle is in use during
the continuance of such license. Upon the expiration of such license (unless
same is forthwith renewed) such name and number shall be at once erased from
such vehicle and such vehicle shall not thereafter be used with such name or
number thereon. (1963 Code § 6-2(T)-6)
Sec. 8-406. Property Left In Car By Passenger:
Whenever any package, article or baggage or goods of any kind shall be left in
or upon any vehicle licensed under the provisions of this article, the operator
of such vehicle shall, upon discovery of such package, baggage or goods,
forthwith deliver the same to the shift commander at the police station in the
city.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(T), § 7)
Sec. 8-407. Posting of rates; overnight parking.
   (a)   Number of passengers, rates posted. No operator or person in charge or
control of any automobile, autocar, cab, motor vehicle or other similar vehicle
licensed hereunder shall contemporaneously convey more than five (5) passengers
scheduled for more than five (5) destinations, and no charge for any additional
passengers in excess of one and not in excess of five (5) shall be made where
all said passengers board the vehicle licensed hereunder at the same place of
origin and all are discharged at the point of termination of any one trip. A
copy of the schedule of rates herein provided to be charged in the said zones
herein established shall be placed and kept in each vehicle licensed hereunder
in a conspicuous place in each of the said vehicles as to be at all times
openly visible to any or all of the public using said vehicles for public
transportation.
   (b)   Overnight parking. Between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.,
each taxicab company operating in the city may have one (1) cab parked at each
of the following locations:
      (1)   Zone No. 1, which shall be on Second Avenue between Eighteenth and
Nineteenth Streets.
      (2)   Zone No. 2, which shall be Sixteenth Street between Second and
Third Avenues.
      (3)   Zone No. 3, which shall be Seventeenth Street between Second and
Third Avenues.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(T), § 8; Ord. of 12-6-65, § 1; Ord. of 12-11-72, §
1; Ord. of 1-21-74, §§ 1--3; Ord. of 8-11-75, § 1; Ord. of 9-12-77, §§ 1, 2;
Ord. of -15-79, § 1; Ord. of 5-21-79, § 1; Ord. of 2-9-81, § 1; Ord. No. 83-49,
§§ 1, 2, 12-19-83)
Sec. 8-408. Seating of passengers.
No person operating under a taxicab license, shall, as principal, agent or
employee, permit any person to stand or sit upon the runningboard, fender or
hood of the automobile, autocar or other similar vehicle while said vehicle is
in operation. (Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(T), § 9)
Sec. 8-409. Advance payment; giving information.
Any person licensed under this article may demand his legal fare to be paid in
advance by any person seeking to employ him, and may refuse to convey any
person who shall fail to comply with such demand. Any person so licensed shall
give to any person requesting the same, his name and the number of his license.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(T), § 10)
Sec. 8-410. Records.
Each operator of a licensed vehicle used and operated as a taxicab shall keep
records on a daily basis indicating on said records the time and place each
passenger is picked up and delivered and the amount charged for each fare.
These records shall be kept by owners of said vehicle for one (1) year.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(T), § 11)
Sec. 8-411-8-415. Reserved.
ARTICLE XIII. TRANSIENT MERCHANTS 1
 
Notes
1 State law reference--Authority of city to license and regulate itinerant
  merchants, 65 ILCS 5/11-42-5.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 8-416. Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation of this article:
   Residence: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes, by
one (1) or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   Transient merchant: Any person, the nature of whose business activity
indicates the intent to remain in business in the city for less than one (1)
year, who:
      (1)   Offers for sale tangible personal property or personal services, or
      (2)   Takes or attempts to take orders for the sale of tangible personal
property or services, including advertising or subscriptions to be furnished or
performed in the future.
(Code 1963, Ch. VI, Art. II(R), § 2; Ord. No. 82-44, § 1, 10-25-82)
Sec. 8-417. Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction, be subject to imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days, or a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each sale or solicitation of
a sale made without a license or bond in violation of this article shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 82-44, § 14, 10-25-82)
Sec. 8-418. Sales.
   (a)   No person shall engage in activities regulated under this article on
public property without first procuring special authorization from the city
council.
   (b)   No person shall shout, or use any sound device upon any of the public
places of the city or upon any private premises in said city, where sound of
sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being
plainly heard from the public places, for the purpose of attracting attention
to any goods, wares, merchandise or services which such person proposes to
sell.
   (c)   No person shall engage in business as a transient merchant in defiance
of any notice exhibited at a residence or business indicating that peddlers or
solicitors are not welcome or not invited.
   (d)   No person shall engage in the activities regulated under this article
from door to door prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. of any weekday or at
any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(Ord. No. 82-44, § 4, 10-25-82)
Sec. 8-419. Fixed location.
   (a)   No transient merchant shall engage in business at a fixed location
without the written permission, by lease or otherwise, of the owner or person
in control of the property. This written agreement shall be signed by the
parties and shall include the dates the transient merchant shall be conducting
business. This agreement shall be displayed by the transient merchant at such
fixed location when he is doing business there.
   (b)   A transient merchant doing business at a fixed location shall provide
sufficient off-street parking space for his employees and customers.
   (c)   Any display of tangible personal property, or signs or advertisements
therefor, shall be at least fifteen (15) feet from the curbline. All signs and
advertisements used in connection with the business licensed in this article
shall comply with the appropriate sections of this Code.
   (d)   The owner or person in control of the property shall furnish bathroom
facilities for the use of the transient merchant.
   (e)   A transient merchant doing business at a fixed location shall do so
only in areas properly zoned for business activity. A transient merchant
selling food items shall comply with all applicable provisions of the city's
health code.
(Ord. No. 82-44, § 5, 10-25-81)
Sec. 8-420. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
Sec. 8-421. Required; Application:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
transient merchant in the city without first obtaining a license as provided in
this division.
   (b)   An application for a transient merchant license shall give the
following information:
      (1)   The name or names of the person having the management or
supervision of applicant's business, whether such person will act as
proprietor, agent, consignee or employee, during the time that it is proposed
it will be carried on in the city; the local address or addresses of such
person while engaged in such business.
      (2)   The permanent address or addresses of such person; whether such
person will act as proprietor, agent, consignee or employee and the credentials
establishing such relationship; the name and address of the person for whose
account the business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under
the laws of what state the same is incorporated.
      (3)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business and the length of time during which it is proposed that
said business shall be conducted.
      (4)   The place or places other than the permanent place of business of
the applicant, where applicant within three (3) years next preceding the date
of said application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof
and giving the post office box number and street address of any building or
office in which said business was conducted.
      (5)   A statement of the nature and character of the tangible personal
property or service to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the
city; whether the goods are new, damaged or rejects; whether the same are
proposed to be sold from stock in possession or by sample; where the goods or
property proposed to be sold are manufactured or produced and where goods or
products are located at the time said application is filed.
      (6)   Whether or not the person having management or supervision of the
applicant's business, whether such person will act as proprietor, agent,
consignee or employee, has been convicted of a felony within the five (5) years
immediately preceding the date of said application or of the violation of any
law or ordinance relating to the same or similar business to be conducted by
applicant, the nature of such offense and the punishment therefor.
         a.   All applicants, whether such person will act as proprietor,
agent, consignee or employee, shall submit their fingerprints to the Rock
Island police department and submit the required, nonrefundable processing fee
per submission for the purpose of conducting a criminal history check prior to
the issuance of a transient merchant license.
      (7)   Whether the applicant has ever applied for a license under this
article, which has been denied.
      (8)   Whether the applicant has ever held a license under this article,
which has been revoked. (1963 Code §§ 6-2(R)-1, 6-2(R)-3; Ord. 82-44, 10-25-
1982; Ord. 006-2017, 2-13-2017)
Sec. 8-422. Bond:
   (a)   Except as provided in this article, each applicant for a transient
merchant license or a blanket license hereunder shall file with the city clerk
a bond running to the city, in the penal sum therein set forth, executed by
applicant as principal, and by a corporate surety upon which service of process
may be made in the state, the bond to be approved by the city attorney,
conditioned that the applicant shall comply with the provisions of all of the
ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state, regulating and concerning
the sale of goods, subscriptions, wares, merchandise or personal property of
any nature, including foodstuffs, or for services, including advertising, and
will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of
ordinances or statutes or any of them together, with all judgments and costs
that may be recovered against applicant by any person or persons for damage
growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person
transacting such business with applicant, whether said misrepresentation or
deception was made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents or
employees, either at the time of making the sale, or the solicitation of the
sale, or through any advertisements of any character whatsoever, printed or
circulated with reference to the subject matter of such sale or any part
thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use
of the aggrieved person. Such bond shall be further conditioned to indemnify
and pay the city for any penalties or costs occasioned by the enforcement of
this article and shall not be retired until after a lapse of one year from the
expiration of each license.
   (b)   The following persons shall be exempt from the requirement of posting
bond: Transient merchants selling subscriptions, tangible personal property or
services, where each sale does not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) to any person
or to any member of any purchaser's immediate family within any consecutive
three (3) month period and where, in addition, no payment, down payment or
deposit whatsoever is required to be made or paid until the property is
actually delivered or the services are actually performed.
   (c)   Any person claiming an exemption under the provisions of this section
shall make request therefor in writing and shall state in said request that the
applicant shall not make any sales in violation of the provisions of this
section.
   (d)   All licenses issued where the transient merchant is exempt from the
posting of bond under this section shall contain the following language: "No
bond has been furnished the city of Rock Island by the holder of this license".
   (e)   The penal sum of the bond required under the provisions of this
article is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or two (2) times the value of the
tangible personal property or service to be sold or offered for sale or the
average inventory to be carried by the transient merchant as shown by the
application, whichever amount is greater.
   (f)   The applicant for a blanket license shall in all cases furnish a bond
described in subsection (a) of this section in the penal sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 82-44, § 9, 10-25-1982)
Sec. 8-423. Duplicate And Individual Licenses:
A transient merchant license may be issued to a person carrying on the business
of transient merchant in this city through employees. Such employees shall
carry a duplicate license issued to the person, which license shall be obtained
at the city clerk's office. If the business of transient merchant in this city
is carried on through agents who are not employees or by consignees, or by an
unincorporated firm or association, each person so conducting the business of
transient merchant in this city shall be required to have a separate license,
but not post a separate bond if one is posted by the corporation. (Ord. 82-44,
§ 10, 10-25-1982)
Sec. 8-424. Blanket License:
   (a)   The owner or person in control of any real property located in the
city, upon which a permanent business and building is located, who conducts
events regulated and required to be licensed under this article, or who leases
the premises to transient merchants for such regulated events, may procure a
blanket annual license, and the individuals conducting the various concessions
there will not be required to obtain individual licenses, under the following
conditions:
      (1)   The owner or person in control of such real property shall be
required to submit in writing to the city clerk, on forms provided by the
clerk, the locations of the premises upon which such activities are to be
conducted, the names and addresses of the officers and directors or other
governing body of the owner of the premises and the name, permanent address and
business address of the person in charge of managing such property. Said person
shall also sign a statement that, in the event the license is granted, he will
comply with all the provisions of this article and that he guarantees that the
transient merchant leasing property from him shall also comply with all the
provisions of this article.
      (2)   The licensee shall make the provisions of this article a part of
any agreement for the use of the premises for any purpose to which the
provisions of this article are applicable.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of licensee not to permit any person
to operate or conduct a business on the premises as transient merchant who is
not entitled to conduct such business under the blanket license.
   (b)   Any person conducting or sponsoring an activity described in
subsection (a) of this section may secure a single event blanket license for
the same uses and purposes and on the same terms and conditions as the annual
blanket license. A single event blanket license shall be valid for a period of
six (6) months and may be used for fourteen (14) cumulative days during said
six (6) month period. (Ord. 82-44, § 11, 10-25-1982; Ord. 82-74, § 1, 2-28-
1983)
Sec. 8-425. Exemptions:
Persons engaged in the following described activities are exempt from the duty
of applying for a transient merchant license:
   (1)   Persons selling at wholesale to merchants for the purpose of resale.
   (2)   Persons selling or distributing newspapers.
   (3)   Persons selling tangible personal property or services to business
enterprises.
   (4)   Persons who sell, at their permanent residence in the city, works of
art or craft made or created by such person or a member of such person's
immediate family.
   (5)   Persons licensed by the state to sell real estate or insurance or
licensed as transient vendors of drugs.
   (6)   Persons selling or distributing livestock feeds as defined by the laws
of the state 1 .
   (7)   Persons selling or delivering tangible personal property or services
through a permanent business licensed by the city.
   (8)   Persons selling at events for which a blanket license has been
obtained.
   (9)   Persons selling or distributing on their property fresh fruit or
vegetables cultivated by such person.
   (10)   Persons selling tangible personal property at a garage, basement or
yard sale held at one of the person's premises.
   (11)   Persons conducting and selling admissions to or for theatricals,
shows, rides, sports and games, concerts, circuses, carnivals or any other
public amusement where no sales of other products are involved and such sales
are made on the premises where the event is to be conducted.
   (12)   Persons selling food and beverages at a food service establishment
regulated pursuant to the health code of the city.
   (13)   A religious, charitable, patriotic, social service, civic or
political nonprofit organization. (Ord. 82-44, § 12, 10-25-1982)
 
Notes
1 505 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
Sec. 8-426. Issuance; Fees; Display:
   (a)   If an application for a license under this article contains a complete
statement of the information required and all material required to be submitted
therewith is filed with the city clerk, the clerk, subject to the provisions of
section
8-421 of this chapter, shall issue within twenty one (21) days, upon posting of
the bond required by section
8-422 of this chapter, the license. The license issued hereunder shall not be
transferable. There shall be no refund of the license fee.
   (b)   Before a license shall be issued, applicant shall pay to the city
collector a license fee according to the following schedule:
      (1)   Blanket License:
         a.   Single event blanket license, fifty dollars ($50.00).
         b.   Blanket annual license, three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      (2)   Transient Merchant's License:
         a.   For one day, twenty five dollars ($25.00); for each additional
day, five dollars ($5.00).
         b.   For one month, one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
         c.   For three (3) months, two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         d.   For six (6) months, two hundred seventy five dollars ($275.00).
         e.   For one year, four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00).
      (3)   Duplicate License: Five dollars ($5.00).
   (c)   Each transient merchant shall at all times while doing business in the
city keep in the possession of such person the license required by this article
and shall, upon request, display the license as evidence of compliance with the
requirements of this article. (Ord. 82-44, §§ 3, 7, 8, 10-25-1982; Ord. 007-
2013, 3-4-2013)
Sec. 8-427. Denial; Revocation:
   (a)   The city manager may deny, within twenty one (21) days, a license to
any applicant under this article who has:
      (1)   Held a license under this article that has been revoked within two
(2) years of the date of the present application.
      (2)   Failed to make a complete application.
      (3)   During the past two (2) years, a history of:
         a.   Fraudulent applications for similar licenses.
         b.   Misrepresentation of the quality of merchandise or services
offered for sale.
         c.   Crimes involving personal injury.
   (b)   The city manager may revoke any license issued under the provisions of
this article by sending a notice of revocation by certified mail to the license
holder at his last known address, return receipt requested, or by personal
service on the license holder or its officers for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Information showing that the license was erroneously issued
initially.
      (2)   For any violation of the provisions of this article.
      (3)   For any violation of any city or state law regulating the sales
activities of the license holder.
   (c)   The license shall stand denied or revoked unless within five (5) days
after denial or receipt of the notice of revocation from the city manager the
applicant or holder files a written request for a public hearing on the city
manager's action. A public hearing shall be conducted before the city council
on whether a license should be denied, reinstated or revoked, as the case may
be. The city council may order the license issued or reinstated either
conditionally or unconditionally, or revoke the license. Ten (10) days' notice
of the time and place of the public hearing shall be given to the license
holder, who shall have an opportunity to appear before the city council and
present any evidence or arguments he may have why the action taken by the city
manager should not be approved by the city council. (Ord. 82-44, § 13, 10-25-
1982)
Secs. 8-428--8-430. Reserved.
ARTICLE XIV. TREE REMOVERS, TREE TRIMMERS, ETC. 1
 
Notes
1 State law reference--Tree experts, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 111, § 6701 et seq.
Sec. 8-431. Definitions:
As used in this article:
   Tree Remover: Any person, firm or corporation that, for profit, removes a
tree stump or a tree standing in any street, alley, parkway, boulevard or other
public or private place in the city of Rock Island.
   Tree Trimmer: Any person, firm or corporation that, for profit, diagnoses
the condition of a shade, forest or ornamental tree and recommends or
supervises the treatment of any such tree, by feeding or fertilizing, or by
pruning, trimming, bracing, treating cavities or other methods, or protects or
attempts to protect any such trees from damage by insects or disease by
spraying or any other method. (1963 Code, ch. VI, art. II(U), §§ 1, 3; Ord., §
1, 2-11-1965)
Sec. 8-432. Tree Remover Generally:
   (a)   No person engaged in the business of removing trees shall remove any
tree standing in any street, alley, parkway, boulevard or other public or
private place in the city without first obtaining a tree remover's license from
the city clerk. No tree remover's license shall be issued by the city clerk to
any person until said clerk is shown evidence that said person has in effect
insurance by a reputable insurance company authorized to do business in the
state, covering public liability of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
per person and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per accident, and also
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) liability coverage for property damage. In
addition thereto said applicant shall show sufficient evidence of insurance
coverage for workers' compensation claims. Said insurance coverage shall be
kept in effect at all times while said licensee is engaged in the business as
aforesaid in the city. The license fee for such business or occupation shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.
   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The United States Of America, the state, the county or the city,
any department, bureau or agency of any of the foregoing or any official
representative of any of the foregoing in the pursuit of his official duties.
      (2)   Any person who engages in tree removing as defined above on his own
premises.
      (3)   Any public utility, including its authorized employees and agents,
when engaged in tree removal for the purpose of line clearance and in order to
ensure the continuity of utility service to the public.
      (4)   Any person holding a valid city tree trimming license. (1963 Code,
ch. VI, art. II(U), § 4; Ord. 87-34, § 5, 4-6-1987; Ord. 004-2011, 2-7-2011)
Sec. 8-433. Tree Trimmer Generally:
   (a)   No person engaged in the business of trimming trees shall trim, feed
or treat in any manner any trees standing in any street, alley, parkway,
boulevard or other public or private place in the city without first obtaining
a tree trimmer's license from the city clerk. The license fee for such business
or occupation shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year. Any person being
issued a tree trimmer's license shall show the city clerk sufficient evidence
that said person has in effect insurance by a reputable insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, covering public liability of twenty
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per person and fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) per accident, and also twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00)
liability coverage for workers' compensation claims. Said insurance coverage
shall be kept in effect at all times while said licensee is engaged in the
business as aforesaid in the city.
   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The United States Of America, the state, county or city, any
department, bureau or agency of any of the foregoing or any official
representative of any of the foregoing in the pursuit of his official duties.
      (2)   Any person who engages in tree trimming as defined above on his own
premises.
      (3)   Any public utility, including its authorized employees and agents,
when engaged in tree trimming for the purpose of line clearance and in order to
ensure the continuity of utility service to the public. (1963 Code, ch. VI,
art. II(U), § 2; Ord., § 1, 10-12-1981; Ord. 87-34, § 6, 4-6-1987; Ord. 004-
2011, 2-7-2011)
Sec. 8-434. Reserved:
Sec. 8-435. Tree Trimmings Removed By Licensee:
Any person having a license as provided in this article shall immediately and
at his own expense remove all tree trunks, limbs, branches, twigs or brush and
dispose of same at a place designated by the chief building inspector or at
such other place as is provided for the disposal of same. (1963 Code, ch. VI,
art. II)
Sec. 8-436. Planting And Maintenance Of Trees On Public Property - Permit 1 :
   (a)   Required: No person shall plant or set out any trees in any street,
alley, parkway, boulevard or other public place without first procuring a
permit therefor from the director of public works or his designated
representative.
   (b)   Application: Any person desiring to acquire a permit as aforesaid
shall make application to the director of public works or his designated
representative therefor and include therein the number of trees to be planted
or set out; the location, grade and variety of each tree, the method of
planting and such other information as the director of public works or his
designated representative shall find reasonably necessary to determine whether
a permit shall issue.
   (c)   Conditions For Issuance: Upon proper application being made as
aforesaid, the director of public works or his designated representative shall
issue the permit provided for herein, when he finds that the proposed planting
conforms to the specifications and general regulations set forth hereunder.
      (1)   No trees shall be planted in a boulevard where sewer or water lines
presently exist or where future plans indicate the need of said lines.
      (2)   Trees shall be set out so as not to cause undue maintenance and so
as not to interfere with any utilities.
      (3)   The director of public works or his designated representative may
require the applicant to furnish a detailed planting plan which shall
accurately show:
         a.   The proposed street, together with its subdivision of pavement,
curb, gutter, parking strip and sidewalk areas to a definite indicated scale.
         b.   The variety of each tree proposed to be planted and of those
already existing within the proposed street lines.
         c.   The distance between trees in any one row. (1963 Code, ch. XII,
art. I; Ord., 4-9-1964; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-72-1.
Sec. 8-437. Planting And Maintenance Of Trees On Public Property - Procedures:
   (a)   Generally: All work done under a permit issued under section 8-436 of
this chapter shall be performed in strict accordance with the terms thereof and
with the following regulations:
      (1)   The trunks of all trees planted must not be less than two and one-
half inches (2 1/2") in diameter, when measured one foot (1') above the ground.
      (2)   No tree shall be placed in such a location where, in the opinion of
the city engineer, said tree shall cause a traffic hazard when planted, or in
the future.
      (3)   All trees shall be planted at least thirty feet (30') apart. Trees
of the larger growing varieties shall be spaced more than thirty feet (30')
apart if considered desirable by the director of public works or his designated
representative.
      (4)   No tree shall be planted where the space between the curb and
sidewalk is less than six feet (6'). Trees of the large growing varieties shall
be permitted only where the space between the sidewalk and the curb is adequate
to appropriately accommodate them.
      (5)   No tree shall be planted nearer than three feet (3') from the curb
line or the outer line of the sidewalk.
      (6)   No tree shall be planted on any street or public place except the
following varieties: sugar maple, pin oak, red oak, ginkgo, honey locust
(thornless varieties), columnar maple, littleleaf linden, hopa crab, Washington
hawthorne and any other varieties specifically approved by the director of
public works or his designated representative; provided, however, that Chinese
elm, box elder, willow, poplar, and similar fast growing, brittle wood species,
which may be subject to attack by insects or diseases, are prohibited.
   (b)   Duties Of Owners: All persons planting trees under authority of
section 8-436 of this chapter and this section shall assume the following
duties:
      (1)   To trim said trees so as to prevent a traffic hazard or
interference with the proper lighting of public highways by any streetlights
and so that the clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be a minimum
of twelve feet (12').
      (2)   To treat or remove any tree so diseased or insect ridden as to
constitute a safety hazard or a hazard to other trees or plants planted on
public property.
   (c)   Compliance: When the director of public works or his designated
representative shall find it necessary to order the trimming, preservation or
removal of trees which constitute a hazard under subsection (b) of this
section, he shall serve a written order to correct the dangerous condition upon
the person to whom a permit to plant has been issued. Said notice shall be
given by mailing a copy of said order, by registered mail, to the owner of the
abutting property as indicated by the property tax assessment records of the
county. When a person to whom an order is directed shall fail to comply within
the time specified in the order, the director of public works or his designated
representative shall remedy said condition or contract with others for such
purpose and charge the cost thereof to the person to whom the order is
directed. (Ord., 4-9-1964; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987)
Secs. 8-438-8-440. Reserved:
ARTICLE XV. RAFFLES 1
 
Notes
1 Prior ordinance history: Ord. 82-64, 1-10-1983; Ord. 82-68, 1-24-1983; Ord.
  82-73, 2-28-1983; Ord. 91-14, 2-11-1991; Ord. 97-31, 4-14-1997.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 8-441. Definitions:
When used in this article and unless otherwise distinctly expressed, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings set out herein:
   Net Proceeds: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   Nonprofit, Charitable, Educational, Religious, Fraternal, Veterans And
Labor: Shall have the same meaning ascribed to them in 230 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 15/2(b).
   Raffle: A form of lottery, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
28-2(b) conducted by an organization licensed under this article, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   Rock Island County Model Raffle Ordinance: An ordinance in substantially the
same form, and containing the same provisions and limitations as are set forth
in this subject ordinance to be enacted by any municipality located within Rock
Island County, Illinois, and intended to regulate the conduct of raffles within
the jurisdiction of the respective municipality. (Ord. 078-2011, 10-10-2011)
Sec. 8-442. Penalty:
Violation of any provision of this article shall subject the person, firm, or
organization to a fine in a sum not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 97-68, 7-28-1997)
Sec. 8-443. Conduct Of Raffles, Generally:
The conducting of raffles licensed under this article is subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted
to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
      (2)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      (3)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle; however, this shall not prohibit
the payment of rent or a permit fee for use of facilities to hold a raffle if
said rent or fee is not dependent upon the raffle proceeds and is binding upon
the parties at the time made.
      (4)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
      (5)   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age may
participate in the conducting of raffles or chances only with the permission of
a parent or guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be
within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian. (Ord. 97-68, 7-28-1997)
Sec. 8-444. Manager:
All operations of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of
a single raffle manager designated by the organization. (Ord. 97-68, 7-28-1997)
Sec. 8-445. Records:
   (a)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose,
amount, and date of payment.
   (b)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor, issued by the department of revenue of the state,
and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records
of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (c)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership, and to the licensing local unit of government, its receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from raffles and the distribution of net proceeds
itemized as required in this section.
   (d)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 97-68, 7-28-1997)
Secs. 8-446-8-450. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
Sec. 8-451. License Required:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conduct a raffle or
chance in the city without having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to
this article or in violation of the terms of such license. (Ord. 97-68, 7-28-
1997)
Sec. 8-452. Reciprocity With Other Municipalities In County:
Any person, firm or corporation who has in his immediate possession a valid
license issued to the person, firm or corporation by another municipality or
political subdivision located in Rock Island County, Illinois, which
municipality or political subdivision has enacted the Rock Island County model
raffle ordinance (this article), shall be exempt from the requirements of this
division to have obtained a license from the city. (Ord. 97-68, 7-28-1997)
Sec. 8-453. Eligibility:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable, labor,
fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations that operate without profit
to their members and which have been in existence continuously for a period of
five (5) years immediately before making application for a license and which
have had during that entire five (5) year period, a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objectives. Licenses shall be issued to a
nonprofit fundraising organization that the licensing authority determines is
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster. (Ord.
97-68, 7-28-1997)
Sec. 8-454. Restrictions On Issuance:
No such license shall be issued to:
   (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (3)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection (1) or
(2) of this section, has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest or in
which such a person is active or employed;
   (4)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (1) or (2) of
this Section, is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
   (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection (1) or (2) of
this Section, is to participate in the management or operation of a "raffle" as
defined in this Article. (Ord. 97-68, 7-28-1997)
Sec. 8-455. Applications:
   (a)   Application for such licenses shall be made to the City Clerk no later
than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of sales or advertisement of
sale of raffle chances.
   (b)   The application for license must specify the area or areas within the
City in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of determination
of winning chances and the location or locations at which winning chances will
be determined.
   (c)   The application for license must contain a sworn statement attesting
to the not-for-profit character of the prospective license organization and
shall be signed by the presiding officer and secretary of the organization.
   (d)   The application for license must state the residence of the applicant
and all addresses of offices within the licensing municipality and, if the
raffle drawing is to be conducted within the licensing municipality, the
address of the location of the drawing.
   (e)   Prior to approval, any application which indicates that the sale of
raffle chances would be in an area outside the corporate limits of the City, or
which indicates that the location or locations of determining winning chances
is outside the corporate limits of the City, shall be referred to the licensing
authority of such jurisdiction for comment as to zoning status, licensed status
of location, and compliance with licensing regulations.
   (f)   The City Clerk shall act on a license application within thirty (30)
days from the date of application and shall notify all jurisdictions affected
thereby of said action. (Ord. 97-68, 7-28-1997)
Sec. 8-456. Fee:
Fees shall be charged for the making of application and the issuance of a
raffle license as follows:
   (1)   Five dollars ($5.00) for a temporary raffle license for a single
raffle;
   (2)   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for an annual raffle license as defined in
Section
8-457 of this Article;
   (3)   No fee will be charged for the making of application and the issuance
of a raffle license for the medical emergency/financial hardship. (Ord. 97-68,
7-28-1997)
Sec. 8-457. Validity; Duration:
A license authorizes the licensee to conduct "raffles" as defined in this
Article. Licenses issued pursuant to this Article shall be valid for one raffle
or for a specified number of raffles to be conducted during a specified period
not to exceed one year, and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of
this Article. (Ord. 97-68, 7-28-1997)
Secs. 8-458-8-465. Reserved:
ARTICLE XVI. WATERPROOFING OF BUILDINGS 1
 
Notes
1 See also
  Chapter 4 of this Code.
Sec. 8-466. Permit Required:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of waterproofing
basements, interiors or exteriors, or cause the same to be done without first
obtaining a separate permit for each building or structure to be waterproofed
from the Building Official. (Ord. 87-91, 10-12-1987)
Sec. 8-467. Obtaining A Permit:
To obtain a permit, the contractor shall have on file in the office of the
Building Official, a general contractor's bond in the amount of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00). Notification of the construction for each year, or the
cancellation of this bond, must be confirmed by the office of the Building
Official.
   (1)   Application For A Permit: To obtain a permit, the applicant shall file
an application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the Building Official
for that purpose. Every application shall:
      a.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
      b.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
      c.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      d.   Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations and specifications
if required by the Building Official. The Building Official may require plans,
computations and specifications to be prepared and designated by an engineer or
architect licensed by the State to practice as such.
      e.   State the value of the waterproofing measure.
      f.   Be signed by permitter, or his authorized agent, who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (2)   Permit Issuance: The application, plans and specifications and other
data filed by an applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the Building
Official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of the City to verify
compliance with any applicable ordinances under their jurisdiction. If the
Building Official finds that the work described in an application for a permit
and plans, specifications and other data filed therewith conform to the
requirements of this Code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that the
fees specified in section 304 of the Uniform Building Code have been paid, he
shall issue a permit therefor to the applicant. (Ord. 87-91, 10-12-1987)
ARTICLE XVII. PEDICABS
Sec. 8-468. Definitions:
   City: The City of Rock Island, Illinois.
   Pedicab: Any vehicle that is a manually operated bicycle-type vehicle
pulling a cart for two (2) passengers equipped with handles and other equipment
required by State law by slow-moving vehicles to operate on the street.
   Pedicab Operating License: A license granted to a person and authorizing a
person to operate a pedicab on the streets of the City. (Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-469. Licenses Required:
The operation of any pedicab vehicle upon the streets of the City for
transporting persons for hire or as a contractual service is a violation of
this Article unless operating in accordance with a valid license issued
pursuant to this Article. (Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-470. Application For License:
Applications for pedicab business licenses shall be made to the City Clerk on a
form provided by the City Clerk. In addition to other information required by
this Article, the application shall contain the following information:
   (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
   (2)   The applicant's work or corporate history for the past five (5) years.
If the applicant is a corporation, the information shall also be given for the
chief administrative officer who will be in charge of the Rock Island
operations. The corporation shall list all its officers and all other
businesses operated by the corporation. If the corporation is a foreign
corporation, a copy of the certificate to do business in the State shall be
provided.
   (3)   A list of all felony and misdemeanor convictions including traffic
violations by the applicant for the past ten (10) years. If the applicant is a
corporation, such information shall be given for the chief administrative
officer in charge of the Rock Island operations.
   (4)   The number of pedicabs to be operated pursuant to the license and the
seating capacity of each.
   (5)   A schedule of rates and charges to be made to passengers, which rates
shall not be changed without ten (10) days' prior notice to the City Clerk.
The applications shall be verified under oath and include a written agreement
by the applicant to operate the business, if licensed, strictly in accordance
with this Article, and indemnify and hold harmless the City for all judgments,
liens and expenses arising out of the operations permitted by the license.
(Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-471. Pedicab Routing And Operations Schedules:
   (a)   Pedicab business shall operate only within the area of the City
located within 1st Avenue to 7th Avenue and 11th Street to 26th Street and also
the City bicycle path. For any special events that the pedicab business wishes
to service, said business shall contact the City Clerk at least four (4) days
before said special events and submit a temporary route to be used by the
pedicab business during said special events. The City Clerk will then review
the temporary route with the City Traffic Engineering Committee and the Police
Department prior to authorizing same.
   (b)   The pedicab business in the City shall operate only between the hours
of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of each day.
(Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-472. Operation Of Pedicab Businesses:
Pedicab businesses shall be operated only with the regulations given in this
Section.
   (1)   A copy of the pedicab license shall be displayed on all pedicabs used
in such business. The City Clerk, upon issuance of the license, shall issue
that number of duplicates as requested in the application identifying each
pedicab identified in the application.
   (2)   Each pedicab used in such business shall have a valid pedicab license
issued pursuant to this Article.
   (3)   Each pedicab shall be operated by the holder of a valid coach
operator's license issued pursuant to this Article, who shall have such license
on his/her person at all times when operating such vehicle.
   (4)   When carrying persons for hire or by contract, the vehicle shall be
operated only in the approved area of operations.
   (5)   Pedicabs shall pick up and discharge passengers only upon the curb
lane, while lawfully parked at designated stands.
   (6)   Pedicab vehicles, when in motion, shall be operated only in the curb-
most traffic lane on any public street; and the driver shall obey all
applicable State and local traffic laws, ordinances and regulations.
   (7)   No pedicab vehicle shall be operated on a public street unless a valid
liability insurance policy as specified in this Article is on file with the
City Clerk.
   (8)   It shall be the duty of the driver of the pedicab to inform any person
hiring the carriage of all the rates and charges before any service is
rendered, which shall be the same as those on file with the City Clerk.
   (9)   Drivers shall carry rate cards and exhibit them on demand.
   (10)   Occupancy of the pedicab shall not exceed the rated seating capacity
of the vehicle.
   (11)   No passenger shall be allowed to ride on any part of the vehicle when
in motion except seated inside the vehicle.
   (12)   Drivers shall not solicit patronage in a loud tone of voice or in any
manner to annoy or obstruct the movement of a person, or follow any person for
the purpose of soliciting patronage.
   (13)   Drivers are prohibited from smoking while carrying passengers.
   (14)   No person may drink any alcoholic liquor while such person is
operating a pedicab. (Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-473. Insurance:
Before any permit for a pedicab shall be issued, the owner shall file with the
City Clerk an insurance policy issued by an insurance company licensed to do
business in this State, providing insurance coverage for each and every pedicab
owned, operated or leased by the applicant with a minimum of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for the injury or death of any one person; and
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for the injury or death of any
number of persons in any one accident, and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
for property damage resulting from any one accident, regardless of whether the
pedicab was being driven by the owner, his/her agent, employee, lessee or
permittee.
The policy shall contain a provision requiring the City to be named as an
additional insured for the sole purpose of the City being notified by the
insurance company of any cancellation, termination, or expiration of the policy
thirty (30) days prior to that event. The cancellation or other termination of
any insurance policy issued for or in compliance with the provisions of this
Section shall automatically terminate any license issued for the pedicab
covered by such insurance policy unless another policy complying with the
provisions of this Section shall be provided and in full force and effect at
the time of such cancellation or termination. (Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-474. Issuance Of License:
Upon receipt of the completed application for the pedicab business license,
approval of the route and operations schedule, filing of insurance as required,
and payment of the application and license fees, the City Clerk shall issue a
pedicab business license to the applicant. (Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-475. Operation On The Streets Of The City:
   (a)   No pedicab shall be operated upon the streets of the City for
transporting person(s) for hire or by contract unless licensed by the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Each pedicab will be equipped with a slow-moving vehicle sign approved
by the State and attached to the rear of the vehicle. (Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-476. Pedicab Operator's License:
   (a)   No person shall drive a pedicab carrying persons, for hire or by
contract, unless he/she is the holder of a valid pedicab operator's license
issued pursuant to this Section.
   (b)   The application for the pedicab operator's license shall be made under
oath to the City Clerk and shall verify, or establish that the applicant:
      (1)   Possesses a valid, current operator's license issued by the State.
      (2)   Is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      (3)   Is free of defective vision, defective hearing, and any other
infirmities that would render him/her unfit for safe operation of a public
vehicle.
      (4)   Is free of alcohol or drug addition.
      (5)   Has not, within the ten (10) years immediately preceding his/her
application, been convicted of any felony, or operating a motor vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol or a drug.
      (6)   Has not received more than three (3) moving traffic violations in
the immediately preceding twelve (12) months or five (5) moving traffic
violations in the immediately preceding twenty four (24) months of application.
      (7)   Has delivered to the City Clerk a certificate signed by the pedicab
licensee or other sufficient evidence that such person is qualified to operate
a pedicab.
   (c)   Upon approval of the application and payment of the necessary fee, the
City Clerk shall issue a pedicab operator's license to the applicant.
   (d)   Any person not having been duly issued a pedicab operator's license or
a person whose license as such driver has been revoked, any person whose
license has been suspended, or any person who has had his/her state driver's
license suspended or revoked (even if he/she has restricted driver's permit),
and who during the time of such suspension or revocation drives a pedicab upon
the streets shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
(Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-477. Denial, Suspension Or Revocation:
   (a)   Any violation of this Article by the holder of a license issued
hereunder shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the license by the
City Clerk.
   (b)   Any denial of license application may be appealed within fourteen (14)
days to the City Council. (Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Sec. 8-478. Annual License Fees:
The annual fee for a pedicab business license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
Each additional pedicab shall be licensed for fifty dollars ($50.00). A pedicab
operator's license shall be issued for an annual fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. 96-58, 9-9-1996)
Secs. 8-479-8-485. Reserved:
ARTICLE XVIII. SALE/POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, TOBACCO ACCESSORIES,
VAPE DEVICES, SMOKING HERBS AND ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS
Sec. 8-486. Definitions:
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   Alternative nicotine product: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. Alternative nicotine product does not include:
cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act [35 ILCS 130/1] and
tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 [35 ILCS 143/10-5] of the Tobacco
Products Tax Act of 1995; tobacco product and electronic cigarette as defined
in this Section; or any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
   Electronic cigarette:
      (1)   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a
solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
      (2)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to
be used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
      (3)   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine
intended for use in the device. Electronic cigarette includes, but is not
limited to, any electronic nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar
product or device, any components or parts that can be used to build the
product or device, and any component, part, or accessory of a device used
during the operation of the device, even if the part or accessory was sold
separately. Electronic cigarette does not include: cigarettes as defined in
Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act; tobacco product and alternative nicotine
product as defined in this Section; any product approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a
tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any asthma inhaler
prescribed by a physician for that condition and is being marketed and sold
solely for that approved purpose; any device that meets the definition of
cannabis paraphernalia under Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act [410 ILCS 705/1-10]; or any cannabis product sold by a dispensing
organization pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act [410 ILCS 705/1-
1 et seq.] or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act [410 ILCS
130/1 et seq.].
   Minor: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   Nicotine: Any form of the chemical nicotine, including any salt or complex,
regardless of whether the chemical is naturally or synthetically derived.
   Smoking herbs: All substances of plant origin and their derivatives,
including but not limited to broom, calea, California poppy, damiana, hops,
ginseng, lobelia, jimson weed and other members of the Datura genus, passion
flower and while lettuce, which are processed or sold primarily for use as
smoking materials.
   Tobacco accessories: Cigarette papers, pipes, bongs, holders of smoking
materials of all types, cigarette rolling machines, and other items, designed
primarily for the smoking, inhaling, or ingestion of tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products or other substances.
   Tobacco product: Any product containing or made from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing
tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product
which contains tobacco that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and
intended to be placed in the oral cavity. Tobacco product includes any
component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product, whether or not sold
separately. Tobacco product does not include: an alternative nicotine product
as defined in this Section; or any product that has been approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as
a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
   Vape Devices: Vapes, Vape Pens, or alternative vapor transmission modalities
that are electronically-operated devices which contain a cartridge or open
space filled with nicotine and/or other chemicals which are turned into vapor
or steam that inhaled and exhaled.
    Vending Machine: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service
device which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment,
dispenses tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or any electronic
nicotine device.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 59-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 8-487. License Generally:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give
away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at retail, giving away
or delivering any products regulated by this Chapter. No license shall be
issued for the sale of tobacco products, vaping devices, tobacco accessories or
alternative nicotine products at any location within one hundred feet (100')
from the property boundaries of any school. It shall be unlawful to permit
smoking, vaping, or otherwise ingesting any tobacco, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine products on the premises at an establishment which also
sells tobacco, electronic cigarettes, vaping devices, tobacco accessories or
alternative nicotine products without first obtaining a Class A or Class B
license.
   (b)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution; nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 59-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 8-488. Types Of Licenses And Fees:
   There shall be two (2) categories of tobacco dealer's licenses, Applications
are available with the Office of the City Clerk. The license shall expire on
April 30 each year. If a license fee is received late, the license holder may
be subject to a late fee of ten percent (10%) of the invoiced license fee and
may be subject to renewal license being denied.
   (1)   Class A License (Incidental): Class A licenses are required in order
to engage in the retail sale and/or display of tobacco products, tobacco
accessories, electronic cigarettes, vaping devices or alternative nicotine
products where such sales and displays are incidental to the principal use of
the premises, such as a grocery store or convenience store, which devotes less
than twenty percent (20%) of its floor space or display area to such products
and which derives less than fifty percent (50%) of its gross revenue from the
sale of tobacco products, tobacco accessories, electronic cigarettes, vaping
devices or alternative nicotine products. The annual license fee for Class A
shall be one hundred seventy-five dollars ($175.00), payable in accordance with
this Chapter. The total number of Class A licenses to be issued is thirty (30).
   (2)   Class B (Retail Tobacco Shop/Store). Class B licenses are required in
order to engage in the retail sale and/or displace of tobacco products, tobacco
accessories, electronic cigarettes, vaping devices or alternative nicotine
products where such sales and displays are a primary use of the premises such
as a tobacco shop, which devotes more than twenty percent (20%) of its floor
space or display area to such products OR which derives more than fifty percent
(50%) of its gross revenue from the sale of tobacco products, tobacco
accessories, electronic cigarettes, vaping devices or alternative nicotine
products. The annual license fee for Class B shall be three hundred dollars
($300.00), payable in accordance with this Chapter. The total number of Class B
licenses to be issued is two (2).
   The restrictions on the number of licenses shall not limit the right to
renewal of any existing license nor to the issuance of a license to the
purchase of an established licensed business as an going concern, but as
licenses are revoked, expire without renewal, or for any other reason cease to
exist, the total number of tobacco licenses in that class will be reduced until
the cap on the class is met.
   Exceptions to Limits: The City Council may, in their discretion, grant the
creation of an additional license in either class, if, it is found that the
creation of such license is necessary for the public convenience of the
residents of Rock Island and is in the best interest of the City of Rock
Island.
(Ord. 043-2017, 11-6-2017; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 59-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 8-489. Responsibility For Agents And Employees:
   (a)   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation
of any of the provisions of this article by an officer, director, manager or
other agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act
of such licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as
if such act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023)
Sec. 8-490. Suspension; Revocation Of License; Fines, Costs:
   (a)   Once a licensee has been notified of a violation of this article, they
shall have five (5) days to file a written notice of appeal. If no hearing is
requested, the Mayor or designee may suspend, revoke, or issue a written
reprimand to any license issued under the provisions of this chapter, if the
Mayor or designee determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of this article. In lieu of suspension or revocation of a license,
the Mayor or designee may instead levy a fine on the licensee. The fine imposed
shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each
day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (b)   If no hearing is requested by the licensee and the Mayor determines
that a letter of reprimand is warranted or the license should be suspended or
revoked, he shall issue a written order within five (5) days stating the
reasons for the determination, and shall cause a copy of such order to be
served upon the licensee within ten (10) days. In the event a penalty is
imposed, the order shall specify the date by which the penalty shall be paid.
If the penalty is not paid by the specified date, the license shall be
suspended for a time determined by the Mayor or designee. All penalties shall
be paid at police headquarters.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 59-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 8-491. Hearing Procedures:
   (a)   If a hearing is requested, in writing, before the Code Hearing Officer
the Code Hearing Officer shall schedule a hearing on said matter within thirty
(30) days. Said hearing shall be open to the public and a Court Reporter shall
transcribe the proceedings.
   (b)   If the Code Hearing Officer determines that the licensee has violated
any of the provisions of this chapter, the Code Hearing Officer may suspend,
revoke or issue a written reprimand to any license issued under the provisions
of this chapter or, in lieu of suspension or revocation of a license, impose a
fine on the licensee not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each violation. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (c)   The Code Hearing Officer shall determine the costs incurred by the
City for said hearing, including, but not limited to: Court Reporter fees, the
cost of transcript records, attorney fees, the cost of preparing the mailing
notices and orders and all other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the City or
such lesser sum as the Code Hearing Officer may allow.
   (d)   The licensee shall pay said costs to the City within thirty (30) days
of notification of the costs by the Code Hearing Officer. Failure to pay said
costs within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this article
and may be cause for license suspension or revocation, or the levy of
additional fines.
   (e)   Witnesses shall be sworn; but the hearing shall be informal, and the
strict rules of evidence shall not apply.
   (f)   In the event the licensee wishes to appeal a decision of the Code
Hearing Officer, said licensee shall pay the cost of the preparation and
transcription of the record of the hearing and shall appeal to the Circuit
Court under the provisions of the Administrative Review Act.(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-
1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023)
Sec. 8-492. Use Of Premises After Revocation:
   (a)   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license
shall be granted to said licensee for the period of six (6) months thereafter
for the conduct of the business of selling “any products” as defined in this
Chapter. (Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023)
Sec. 8-493. Prohibited Sales, Delivery - Signs:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell,
offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products, tobacco accessories, or
alternative nicotine products to any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years.
   (b)   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for herein
shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display of tobacco products,
tobacco accessories, or alternative nicotine products and on or upon every
vending machine which offers tobacco products for sale. Each such sign shall be
plainly visible and shall state:
THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, VAPING DEVICES, TOBACCO ACCESSORIES and
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW.
   The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background, said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 59-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 8-494. Age Limits:
   (a)   Minimum Age To Sell Tobacco Products, Vaping Devices Tobacco
Accessories, or Alternative Nicotine Products: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee
of such licenses, to engage, employ or permit any person under twenty-one (21)
years of age to sell Tobacco Products, Vaping Devices, Tobacco Accessories, or
Alternative Nicotine Products in any licensed premises.
   (b)   Purchase Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty-one (21) years to possess any Tobacco Products, Vaping Devices,
Tobacco Accessories, or Alternative Nicotine Products, or to misrepresent their
identity or age, or to use any false or altered identification for the purpose
of purchasing tobacco products.
   (c)   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under
twenty-one (21) years of age to possess any Tobacco Products, Vaping Devices
Tobacco Accessories or Alternative Nicotine Products.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 59-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 8-495. Certain Free Distributions Prohibited:
    (a)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business
of selling or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco
products, vaping devices, tobacco accessories, smoking herbs or alternative
nicotine products, or any employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in
the course of such licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or
deliver tobacco products, vaping devices, tobacco accessories, smoking herbs or
alternative nicotine products free of charge to any person on any right of way,
park, playground or other property owned by the city or the school district.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 59-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 8-496. Vending Machines-Locking Devices:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give
away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away or
delivering tobacco products or alternative nicotine products by use of a
vending machine, unless such vending machine is equipped with a manual,
electric or electronic locking device controlled by the licensee so as to
prevent its operation by persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   (b)   Any premises where access by persons under the age of twenty-one (21)
years is prohibited, shall be exempt from the requirements of subsection (a) of
this section.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 59-2025, 6-9-2025)
Sec. 8-497. Remedies For Violation:
   Any violation of the provisions of this article, except as otherwise
provided in this section, shall be punishable by a minimum fine of two hundred
dollars ($200.00). In the event any person is accused of a violation hereof and
does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued
for the violation, that person so accused may pay to the city at police
headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for and in
full satisfaction of said violation.
(Ord. 96-67, 9-16-1996; Ord. 96-83, 10-28-1996; Ord. 006-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord.
59-2025, 6-9-2025)
ARTICLE XIX. TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS AND TATTOO ARTISTS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 8-498. Definitions:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   Aseptic Technique: A practice that prevents and hinders the transmission of
disease-producing microorganisms from one person or place to another person or
place.
   Certificate Of Inspection: Written approval from the health authority that
said tattooing establishment has been inspected and meets all of the terms of
this article relating to physical facilities, equipment and layout for
operation of such business. Said writing shall be on a form designated by the
health authority for such purpose.
   City: The city of Rock Island, Illinois.
   Facial Tattoo: Any tattoo applied above the jawline, anterior to the ear and
frontal hairline including the eyelids, eyebrows or lips.
   Health Authority: The health inspector or authorized representative.
   Operator: Any individual, firm, partnership, company, corporation or
association that owns or operates an establishment where tattooing is
performed.
   Sanitize: To treat a clean surface and destroy pathogenic microorganisms.
   Single Service Items: Articles intended for one time, one person use and are
to be discarded after use.
   Tattoo Artist: Any individual who performs or practices the art of
tattooing, on the person of another.
   Tattoo, Tattooed, Tattooing: An indelible mark or decorative design created
by the introduction of dyes or pigments beneath the surface of the skin with
the aid of needles or other devices. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
Sec. 8-499. License Required; Fees:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
operating a tattooing establishment within the city without first paying an
annual license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and payable to the city
clerk's office upon written approval from the health authority and to engage in
such business in accordance with the provisions hereof.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any tattooing within
the city without a tattoo license, respectively, which shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of this article, or to employ any person as a tattooer, who
has not paid for such tattoo artist's annual license fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) for each artist, and payable to the city clerk's office, upon written
approval from the health authority.
   (c)   No tattoo artist shall practice tattooing in any place other than a
tattoo parlor having a valid license.
   (d)   No tattoo artist shall apply a tattoo to any person who appears to be
or admits to being under the influence of intoxicating substances, including,
but not limited to, alcohol, drugs, paints and glues.
   (e)   No tattoo artist shall apply a tattoo in violation of section 12-10 of
the Criminal Code of 1961.
   (f)   Immediately after tattooing, the tattoo artist shall advise the
client, in writing, on the care of the tattoo and instruct the client to
consult a physician at the first sign of infection. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-
2000)
Sec. 8-500. Display Of License:
Every person to whom a license shall have been granted shall display said
license in a conspicuous place. Failure to display said license shall be
grounds for revocation. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-501. Exceptions To Provisions Of Article:
The requirements of this article shall have no application and no effect upon
and shall not be construed as applying to any person, firm or corporation
licensed by the state to practice medicine or licensed by the state to practice
any of the healing arts. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-502. Application:
Any person desiring to obtain or renew a license to operate a tattooing
establishment or a tattoo artist's license shall make application to the city
clerk who shall refer all such applications to the health inspector for an
appropriate investigation. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-503. Contents Of Application:
   (a)   The application for a tattooing license required by this article shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Full name and current address;
      (2)   The two (2) previous addresses of the applicant immediately prior
to the current address;
      (3)   Written proof that the applicant is over the age of eighteen (18)
years;
      (4)   Applicant's height, weight and color of eyes and hair;
      (5)   The tattooing license history of the applicant, including whether
such person in previous operation in this or another area has had his license
revoked or suspended, the reason thereof, and any business activity or
occupation subsequent to the action of suspension or revocation;
      (6)   A certificate of a medical doctor designating that the applicant
has recently been examined and is free of any contagious or communicable
disease which in the opinion of the medical doctor can be transmitted during
the tattooing process. Immunization for hepatitis B is strongly recommended.
(Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-504. Reserved:
DIVISION 3. REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
Sec. 8-505. Tattooing Hygiene Procedure:
   (a)   All tattoo artists shall comply with the following:
      (1)   No employee, while infected with a disease in a communicable form,
or who is a carrier of a disease which can be transmitted during the tattooing
process; and no employee while affected with a boil, infected wound or acute
respiratory infection shall provide tattooing to a client.
      (2)   No employee shall provide tattooing to any skin surface that shows
evidence of any rash, boils, infections or other unhealthy conditions or
disease.
      (3)   Employees shall thoroughly wash their hands and the exposed
portions of their arms with soap and warm water before starting work, during
work as often as is necessary to keep them clean, and after smoking, eating,
drinking and using the toilet. Employees shall keep their fingernails clean and
trimmed.
      (4)   Employees providing tattooing shall, in addition to thoroughly
washing, use single-use latex or vinyl examination gloves, as a barrier to
potentially infective blood.
      (5)   Employees shall not use tobacco in any form, or eat or drink while
tattooing a client. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-506. Tattooing Procedure:
   (a)   The tattoo artist shall explain in writing the following to each
client before a tattoo application and maintain a copy of the informed consent
signed by the client for at least five (5) years:
      (1)   The application procedure.
      (2)   Possible tissue reactions, infections and dye reactions following
application.
      (3)   Importance of after-application care.
   (b)   The area of skin to be worked on shall first be thoroughly washed and
scrubbed for a period of two (2) minutes with warm water to which has been
added an antiseptic liquid soap. A sterile single-use sponge shall be used to
scrub the area. After shaving and before the tattooing is begun, a solution of
seventy percent (70%) alcohol or other effective germicidal solution shall be
applied to the area with a single-use sponge used and applied with a sterile
instrument;
   (c)   For tattooing, single-service or individual containers of dye or ink
shall be used for each patron, and the container therefor shall be discarded
immediately after completing work on a patron; any dye in which the needles
were dipped shall not be used on another person;
   (d)   Whenever a new sterile tube is used that contains a different color of
dye or ink, a separate or new sterile needle shall also be used. Excess dye or
ink shall be removed from the skin with an individual single-use sterile sponge
or a disposable paper tissue which shall be used only on one person and then
immediately discarded. After completing work on any person, the tattooed area
shall be washed with sterile gauze saturated with an antiseptic soap solution
approved by the health officer, or a seventy percent (70%) alcohol solution.
The tattooed area shall be allowed to dry and petroleum jelly from a
collapsible or plastic tube shall be applied, using sterile gauze. A sterile
gauze dressing shall then be fastened to the tattooed area with adhesive;
   (e)   Only clean single-service stencils may also be used;
   (f)   Only sterilized needles and tubes or tips, in good condition, shall be
used for tattooing;
   (g)   Persons tattooed shall be provided with printed instructions regarding
tattoo care during the healing process and shall be instructed to consult a
physician if signs and symptoms of an infection develop;
   (h)   Single-use needles, razors or other sharp materials must be disposed
of immediately upon completion of tattooing within EPA and OSHA approved sharps
disposal containers.
   (i)   Used tattoo needles and other infectious waste shall be stored,
treated, and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of title XV of the
environmental protection act 1 which regulates the management and disposal of
infectious waste. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
 
Notes
1 415 ILCS 5/56 et seq.
Sec. 8-507. Facial Tattoos:
(Rep. by Ord. 089-2005, § 1, 10-17-2005)
Sec. 8-508. Physical Facilities:
All tattoo parlors shall comply with all of the following requirements in order
to qualify for a license:
      (1)   The tattooing room and waiting areas shall be separated by a solid
partition or barrier that prevents unauthorized entry into the tattooing room
and provides privacy for clients.
      (2)   All floors, walls, ceilings, and procedure surfaces shall be
constructed from materials that are easily cleanable, smooth, nonabsorbent,
durable, light colored, and in good repair. The tattoo establishment shall be
maintained in a sanitary condition.
      (3)   A separate, readily accessible hand sink with hot and cold running
water, shall be provided at each workstation, for the exclusive use of the
tattoo artist for hand washing and preparing the client for tattooing. The hand
sink will be under pressure with a mixing valve or combination faucet. Soap, an
approved hand drying device such as disposable paper towels, and a refuse
container with a cover shall be provided at each hand sink.
      (4)   All tattooing establishments shall be provided with at least one
utility sink or curbed cleaning facility with a floor drain for the cleaning of
mops or similar wet floor cleaning equipment and for the disposal of mop water
or similar liquid waste.
      (5)   Adequate lighting and ventilation shall be provided within the
tattoo establishment.
      (6)   No animals of any kind shall be allowed in a tattoo establishment
except for canine accompanying the visually disabled.
      (7)   Effective measures shall be taken by the tattoo operator to prevent
and maintain the tattoo establishment free of pest and/or rodent infestations.
      (8)   An adequate number of lockers or other suitable facilities shall be
provided and used for orderly storage of employees' clothing and other
belongings.
      (9)   Smoking and the use of tobacco in any form shall be prohibited in
the tattooing room.
      (10)   Any other business or dwelling shall be completely separated from
the tattoo parlor by at least a solid partition from the floor to the ceiling.
Only tattooing shall be permitted in a tattooing room. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-
14-2000)
Sec. 8-509. Equipment:
   (a)   All service table surfaces shall be constructed of nonporous, easily
cleanable material, and sanitized after each client.
   (b)   All inks, dyes, needles and equipment shall be specifically
manufactured for performing body art procedures and shall be used according to
the manufacturer's instructions. All dyes or pigments used in tattooing shall
be nontoxic, free from adulteration and made from materials generally regarded
as safe.
   (c)   Sterile single-service or sterile individual containers of dye or ink
shall be used for each patron. Ink cups shall be for single patron use with the
ink cup holder constructed from material that is easily cleanable and
nonabsorbent.
   (d)   All tubes, needle bars and instruments used in the tattoo procedure
that are not sterile single patron use and disposable shall be thoroughly
cleaned and steam sterilized or dry-heat sterilized between patrons. After
sterilization, equipment used in the tattoo procedure shall be stored in a dry,
clean cabinet or other tightly covered container reserved for the storage of
such instruments. Each tattoo artist will be provided with a storage cabinet
for the exclusive storage of instruments, dyes, pigments, carbon, stencils, and
other paraphernalia used in the parlor.
   (e)   Needles shall be disposable, sterile, single patron use or shall be
reusable needles and shall be thoroughly cleaned and steam sterilized or dry-
heat sterilized between patrons. Needles, tubes, and tips shall be constructed
in a manner that permits easy cleaning and sterilization. Needles and
assemblies designed to be disposable shall be used one time, on one person
only, and then discarded in accordance with subsection 8-506(i) of this
division.
   (f)   Razors shall be single patron use and disposable, or shall have the
handle of the razor sterilized with a new blade used for each patron. Alum or
other material used to stop the flow of blood shall be used only in liquid or
powder form.
   (g)   Topical ointment or medications shall be packaged for single patron
use. All bandages and dressings shall be sterile and single use.
   (h)   All instruments used for tattooing shall remain stored in sterile
packages until just prior to the performance of the tattoo procedure. All
instruments, equipment and facilities shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition. When assembling instruments used for the tattoo procedure,
the artist shall wear disposable medical gloves and use medically recognized
techniques to ensure that the instruments and gloves are not contaminated.
(Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-510. Sterilization Procedure:
   (a)   Each tattoo parlor engaged in the practice of tattooing shall utilize
sterilization equipment adequate in size to accommodate needles, tubes, tips
and other related utensils and equipment and only sterilization equipment with
the capacity to make a permanent record of the temperatures and pressures in
the machines may be used. All records shall be permanently retained by the
licensee and made available for inspection by the health authority on demand.
   (b)   After each use, the needles and assemblies shall be cleansed to remove
protein residue (blood and tissue) and sterilized.
   (c)   One of the following methods of sterilization shall be used:
      (1)   Autoclave - steam under pressure.
         a.   One hundred twenty one degrees Celsius (121°C) (250°F) at greater
than ten (10) psi for not less than thirty (30) minutes after the chamber of
the autoclave has been evacuated of air and has reached temperature; or as
specified in the manufacturer's operator's manual.
      (2)   Dry heat sterilization.
         a.   One hundred seventy degrees Celsius (170°C) (338°F) for not less
than two (2) hours after the sterilizer has reached temperature; or
         b.   As specified in the manufacturer's operator's manual.
      (3)   Other methods approved by the health authority.
   (d)   Sterilization shall be monitored by the use of chemical and heat
sensitive (color change) indicators with each batch of equipment sterilized or
by other methods approved by the department.
   (e)   Sterilized equipment shall be stored wrapped or covered in a manner
that ensures the equipment will remain sterile until used. Each batch shall be
labeled with the date of sterilization. If exposed to any potential source of
contamination, the equipment shall be resterilized before use.
   (f)   Sterile equipment stored, in an approved manner and not used within
thirty (30) days after sterilization, shall no longer be considered sterile and
shall be resterilized before use.
   (g)   An equipment fault manual shall be kept by licensee and made available
at all times to the health authority containing a record of all sterilization
equipment failures and the remedies taken to correct the failure.
   (h)   Sterilizers shall be monitored monthly by an independent testing
laboratory. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-511. Inspections:
During the business hours of the tattooing establishment, the health authority
may conduct periodic inspections for the purpose of determining whether or not
said establishment and the persons performing the art of tattooing thereon are
in compliance with all applicable health provisions contained within this
article and other pertinent ordinances. It shall be unlawful for any person or
operator of a tattooing establishment wilfully to prevent or restrain the
health officer from entering any licensed establishment where tattooing is
being performed for the purpose of inspecting said premises, after proper
identification is presented to the operator. Where the health authority has
reasonable grounds to believe that a communicable disease has possibly been
transmitted at a licensed tattoo parlor it may require testing of the tattoo
artist and employees. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-512. No Guarantee Or Warranty:
The purpose of this article is to protect the public interest by reducing the
dangers involved in unregulated practice of tattooing. Neither the issuance of
a license, the making of an inspection without finding violations, or any other
act by the health officer or by any other city official shall constitute a
guarantee or warranty that any equipment or any treatment is safe or effective,
or that any tattooing establishment will perform without making errors. (Ord.
12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
DIVISION 4. REVOCATION OF LICENSE
Sec. 8-513. Hearing Prerequisite To Revocation Of License; Notice:
No license shall be revoked until after due notice and a hearing shall have
been held before the administrative hearing officer to determine just cause for
such revocation. Notice of such hearing shall be given in writing and served at
least ten (10) days but not more than twenty (20) days prior to the date of the
hearing thereof. The notice shall state the grounds of the complaint against
the holder of such license and shall designate the time and place where such
hearing will be had. Said notice shall be served upon the license holder by
delivering the same personally or by leaving such notice at the place of
business or residence of the license holder in the custody of a person of
suitable age and discretion. In the event the license holder cannot be found,
and the service of such notice cannot be otherwise made in the manner herein
provided, a copy of such notice shall be mailed, registered and postage fully
prepaid, addressed to the license holder at his place of business or residence
at least ten (10) days prior to the date of such hearing. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1,
2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-514. Grounds Of Revocation:
The license of a tattooing establishment may be revoked for any legitimate
reason, including, without limitation, any one or more of the following
grounds:
      (1)   That the holder is addicted to the habitual use of intoxicating
liquors, narcotics or stimulants to such an extent as to incapacitate such
person for the performance of his professional duties for any period of time.
      (2)   That the holder is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading or
deceptive advertising.
      (3)   That the holder is guilty of wilful negligence in the practice of
tattooing or has been guilty of employing, allowing or permitting any
unlicensed person to perform tattooing in his establishment.
      (4)   That liquor is being sold or consumed within the establishment.
      (5)   That the establishment has abandoned the practice of tattooing or
that the individual licensee has abandoned the same practices. For the purposes
of this subsection, "abandonment" shall mean that the activities regulated
hereunder, or any of them, have ceased or otherwise not conducted for a period
of sixty (60) days at the establishment in question, or where an individual
licensee has abandoned the activities regulated hereunder, or any of them, for
a like period.
      (6)   That the licensee, whether an establishment or individual, has
violated any provision of this article, whether or not an action has been
commenced in circuit court.
      (7)   Any licensee, whether an establishment or individual, who has had
its license revoked three (3) times shall be ineligible for any license
hereunder for a period of five (5) years beginning with the effective date of
the third revocation. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-515. Tattooing Establishments Practicing When Provisions Of Article
Become Effective:
Any person, firm or corporation who is actually engaged in the practice of
tattooing at the time of final passage of ordinance 12-2000 and meets all the
requirements except as to adequacy of facilities, and upon payment of the
prescribed fee, shall be granted a license. Such person shall have thirty (30)
days from the effective date of ordinance 12-2000 from which this article is
derived to bring his facilities into compliance with this article. (Ord. 12-
2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
DIVISION 5. REGULATION; PENALTY
Sec. 8-516. Federal, State And Local Regulation:
Wherever federal, state, or local laws, ordinances, rules or regulations
conflict with the provisions of this article, then the law, ordinance, rule or
regulation which is most strict shall apply, and it shall not be a defense to
an action under this article, or to a request for suspension or revocation of
the license(s) provided herein, that this article does not specifically
enumerate the proscribed, prohibited or regulated conduct. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1,
2-14-2000)
Sec. 8-517. Penalty:
In addition to the revocation and suspension of any license, any person
violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less then twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. Complaints for violation of
provisions of this article may be brought to the administrative hearing
officer. (Ord. 12-2000, § 1, 2-14-2000)
ARTICLE XX: RECREATIONAL CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Sec. 8-518.   Purpose:
   It is the intent and purpose of this article to provide regulations
regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of adult-use cannabis
occurring within the corporate limits of the City of Rock Island. Such
facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended from time-
to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided
below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state
or local regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 055-2019, 10- 28-2019; Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Sec. 8-519.   Definitions:
   Cannabidiol (CBD): A chemical derived from cannabis that is used primarily
for medical purposes. CBD has less pronounced psychoactive effects than THC.
   Cannabis: Any species of the family Cannabaceae including but not limited to
Cannabis sativa, Cannabis indica, and Cannabis ruderalis used for recreational,
medicinal, or industrial purposes. This term shall refer to marijuana, hashish,
and other substances that are identified as including any parts of the plant,
whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of
the plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC) and all other naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction or independently by chemical synthesis or
by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; however, "cannabis" does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil
or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the
resin extracted from it), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the
plant that is incapable of germination. "Cannabis" does not include industrial
hemp as defined and authorized under the Illinois Industrial Hemp Act.
"Cannabis" also means concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
   Cannabis Business Establishment: An adult-use cannabis cultivation center,
consumption business, craft grower, processing organization, infuser
organization, dispensing organization, or transporting organization.
   Cannabis Craft Grower: A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry,
cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Cannabis Cultivation Center: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Cannabis Dispensing Organization: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Cannabis Infuser Organization Or Infuser: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Cannabis Processing Organization Or Processor: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Compliance Inspection: An on-site or remote inspection conducted by the City
or its authorized agents to ensure compliance with applicable City ordinances,
regulations, and state laws.
   Dispensary License: A license issued by the City authorizing the operation
of a Cannabis Dispensing Organization within City limits.
   Hemp: Otherwise known as "industrial hemp," this material is made from
Cannabis with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) concentration of not more
than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis that has been cultivated under a license
issued under the Illinois Industrial Hemp Act or is otherwise lawfully present
in the State of Illinois, and includes any intermediate or finished product
made or derived from industrial hemp. Hemp shall not be subject to this
article.
   On-Site Consumption Dispensing Business: Any premises wherein cannabis is
sold at retail for consumption on the premises as the principal use. Such
businesses include but are not limited to cannabis cafes, cannabis smoking
lounges, cannabis vaping lounges, and cannabis clubs. These facilities may also
engage in packaged cannabis sales.
   Packaged Product Dispensing Business: Any premises where sale of packaged
cannabis products is the principal use. Consumption of cannabis at these
premises is prohibited.
   Provisional Dispensary License: A temporary, conditional license issued to
allow an applicant to conduct due diligence in preparation for a potential
cannabis dispensing organization, including but not limited to zoning, land
use, and state licensure requirements.
   Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): A chemical derived from cannabis that is used
primarily for recreational purposes. THC is the principal psychoactive chemical
in cannabis.
   Transportation Organization Of Transporter: An organization or business that
is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to transport cannabis on
behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a community college licensed
under the Community College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from
time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 055-2019, 10-28-2019; Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Sec. 8-520.   Zoning Regulations:
   (a)   Cannabis craft growing facilities and cultivation centers shall be a
permitted use in all agricultural and industrial zoning districts.
   (b)   Cannabis infuser organizations, processing organizations, and
transportation organizations shall be a permitted use in all industrial zoning
districts.
   (c)   Packaged product dispensing businesses shall be a permitted use in all
industrial and business zoning districts.
   (d)   On-site consumption dispensing businesses shall be a permitted use in
all industrial zoning districts and all business zoning districts except the B-
1: Neighborhood Business District.
   (e)   Co-Location of a Dispensing Organization and a Craft Grower Center or
an Infuser Organization, or both, shall be permitted. In such case, the floor
space requirements of Section
8-521, Subsection (b) shall not apply, but the co-located establishments shall
be the sole use of the tenant space. Such co-located establishments shall be a
permitted use in all agricultural and industrial zoning districts.
   (f)   All cannabis business establishments shall be located at least one
hundred feet (100') in distance from any residential zoning district.
(Ord. 055-2019, 10-28-2019; Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Sec. 8-521.   General Regulations:
   (a)   Packaged cannabis sales shall be permitted only at licensed packaged
product dispensing businesses. Consumption of cannabis shall be permitted only
at licensed on-site consumption businesses or elsewhere as authorized by the
Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   (b)   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a cannabis business establishment shall be devoted to the
activities of said business as authorized by the Illinois Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act. A facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   (c)   Cannabis Business Establishments shall install building enhancements,
such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements to ensure the safety
of its employees and customers as well as its environs. Said improvements shall
be determined based on the specific characteristics of the building floor plan
and the site on which it is located and shall be consistent with the
requirements of the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   (d)   Cannabis Business Establishments shall keep their State issued license
and registration documents in a conspicuous location in an area of the business
accessible to consumers and/or state and city officials at all times.
   (e)   Cannabis Business Establishments shall immediately produce upon
request by city staff the following information.
      (1)   Name of the business.
      (2)   Names of the business owners.
      (3)   Names and mailing addresses of all individuals who have an
ownership interest in the business.
      (4)   Names and addresses of all other persons who work on the business
premises whether employees or independent contractors of the business along
with a description of the work performed.
      (5)   Government issued photo identification card for all employees or
independent contractors of the business to verify and confirm identify of
individuals referenced above.
   (f)   All Cannabis Business Establishments shall comply with the Illinois
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
the regulations therein.
(Ord. 055-2019, 10-28- 2019; Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Sec. 8-522. Dispensary Licenses:
   (a)   Every Cannabis Dispensing Organization shall obtain a Dispensing
License from the City of Rock Island prior to operation within City limits.
   (b)   No more than two (2) Dispensary Licenses shall be issued and in effect
within the City at any given time.
   (c)   Provisional License required: An applicant must obtain a Provisional
Dispensary License before becoming eligible for consideration for a Dispensary
License.
   (d)   No entity shall be awarded a Dispensary License without first holding
a valid and active Provisional Dispensary License.
   (e)   Authority to Issue or Deny Licenses: The decision to issue, deny, or
renew a Provisional Dispensary License or a Dispensary License shall be made by
the City Manager or their designee, at their full and sole discretion. Issuance
of any license is not guaranteed and may be denied even if the applicant meets
all technical requirements.
   (f)   Fee: Each holder of a Dispensing License or Provisional Dispensing
License shall pay an annual fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) payable upon
application, and every year thereafter on May 1st.
(Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Sec. 8-523. Provisional Dispensary License:
   (a)   Purpose: A Provisional Dispensary License allows an entity to perform
necessary due diligence, including satisfying zoning, land use, and state
regulatory requirements, prior to becoming eligible for a Dispensary License.
Provisional licenses are non-transferable.
   (b)   Term and Renewals:
      (1)   Initial Term: Two (2) years;
      (2)   Renewals: Up to five (5) two-year renewals;
      (3)   Renewals are discretionary and based on demonstrated good faith
progress.
   (c)   Good Faith Efforts: Applicants must show active efforts toward
establishing a dispensary, such as:
      (1)   Evidence of site control;
      (2)   Progress with IDFPR licensing;
      (3)   Zoning and land use filings;
      (4)   Engagement of legal, financial, and regulatory advisors;
   (d)   Non-Renewal: A renewal may be denied if the City Manager or designee
determines insufficient progress has been made.
   (e)   Holding a Provisional License does not guarantee future approval of a
Dispensary License.
   (f)   A Provisional Dispensary License will only be issued if the City has
not met its cap on Dispensary Licenses. If there is one active Dispensary
License than no more than one Provisional Dispensary License will be awarded.
If there are no active Dispensary Licenses, the City may award two (2)
Provisional Licenses.
(Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Sec. 8-524. Dispensary License Evaluation Criteria:
   The City Manager or designee may consider the following factors in
evaluating a Dispensary License Application:
   (1)   Zoning and land use compliance;
   (2)   Suitability of the proposed location;
   (3)   Security and operational planning;
   (4)   Applicant's experience and qualifications;
   (5)   Financial readiness and business planning;
   (6)   Community impact and engagement;
   (7)   Regulatory compliance history;
   (8)   Public safety and traffic concerns; and
   (9)   Any other relevant factors in the City's interest.
(Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Sec. 8-525. Appeals Process:
   Any applicant denied a Provisional Dispensary License, renewal, or
Dispensary License may file an appeal with the City Clerk within thirty (30)
days of the date of the denial notice. The appeal shall state the grounds and
include supporting documentation.
   The City Council shall hear and decide the appeal. It may affirm, reverse,
or modify the City Manager's decision.
   The decision of the City Council shall be final and binding.
(Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Sec. 8-526. Dispensary License Terms, Renewals, And Compliance:
   (a)   Term: Each Dispensary License shall be valid for a period of one (1)
year from the date of issuance, unless either suspended or revoked.
   (b)   Annual Renewal Required: Dispensary Licenses must be renewed annually
with the City Clerk. The licensee shall submit a renewal application no less
than sixty (60) days prior to expiration. Renewal shall be subject to:
      (1)   Demonstrated compliance with all City ordinances and applicable
state laws;
      (2)   Satisfaction of all fees and taxes owed to the City; and
      (3)   No outstanding violations or unresolved citations.
   (c)   Grounds for Revocation: The City Manager or designee may suspend or
revoke a Dispensary License at any time for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of any City ordinance, zoning restriction, or regulation;
      (2)   Violation of applicable state cannabis laws or regulations;
      (3)   Submission of false or misleading information to the City;
      (4)   Operating in a manner that constitutes a public nuisance or risk to
public health or safety.
   (d)   Revocation Procedure: Prior to revocation, the City shall issue a
written notice stating the grounds of the proposed revocation and provide the
licensee with the opportunity to respond in writing within ten (10) business
days. The City Manager may, at their discretion, hold an informal hearing.
After review, the City Manager may issue a final decision. The licensee may
appeal the decision under the process described in Section
8-525.
(Ord. 62-2025, 6-24-2025)
Secs. 8-527 – 8-535. Reserved:
ARTICLE XXI: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
(Rep. by Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
Secs. 8-536 – 8-560. Reserved:
ARTICLE XXII. COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL REVOLVING LOAN FUND (CIRLF) COMMITTEE
Sec. 8-561. Purpose:
   There is hereby created a Commercial Industrial Revolving Loan Fund (CIRLF)
Committee to oversee the CIRLF Program as described in the Program policies and
procedures as approved by the City Council. The City Council delegates final
decision-making authority to the Committee for the purposes of fulfilling its
duties as herein described. (Ord. 007-2022, § 1, 2-28-2022)
Sec. 8-562. Duties and Powers:
   The Committee shall have the following duties and powers:
      (1)   Reviewing loan packets and making determinations of loan awards.
      (2)   Approving or denying foreclosure actions, waivers, and/or
modifications of loan terms.
      (3)   Recommendation of program policy that is not related to, or does
not change the regulatory requirements of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD).
      (4)   Advising and consulting with the Mayor, City Council, City Manager,
and department staff on all matters involving the Program and loans approved
through the Program objectives and outcomes.
      (5)   Providing an annual summary report to the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 007-2022, § 1, 2-28-2022)
Sec. 8-563. Membership:
   The Committee shall consist of five (5) voting members who are required to
be residents of the City of Rock Island. The Committee membership shall consist
of:
      (1)   City of Rock Island Council member (serves a two-year term).
      (2)   A representative of a local lending institution.
      (3)   Rock Island CEO or CPA member.
      (4)   A Rock Island business owner.
      (5)   A citizen with financial back ground to represent the community.
(Ord. 007-2022, § 1, 2-28-2022)
Sec. 8-564. Compensation:
   Committee members shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 007-2022, § 1, 2-
28-2022)
Sec. 8-565. Terms:
   The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the City Council. Special appointments to the Committee shall be made by the
Mayor and approved by the City Council as vacancies may occur. Committee
members shall serve terms of three (3) years. Each committee member shall not
serve more than two consecutive, three-year terms. (Ord. 007-2022, § 1, 2-28-
2022)
Sec. 8-566. Officers:
   (a)   Generally: Officers shall consist of a Chair and Vice Chair elected by
the Committee who shall each serve a term of one (1) year and shall be eligible
for reelection. Elections shall be held annually.
   (b)   Chair: The Chair shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the
Chair, the Vice Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair. If both are
absent, a temporary Chair shall be elected by those present.
   (c)   Staff Liaison: The Community Economic Development Department's
Economic Development Manager shall be assigned as a staff liaison to the
Committee. The liaison will ensure that the CIRLF Policies and Procedures are
adhered to. The liaison shall also:
      (1)   Take minutes of each Committee meeting, originals of which shall be
kept in the Office of Community and Economic Development Department and make
these available to the public;
      (2)   Provide administrative and technical assistance to the Committee to
assist it in making the decisions and findings as provided herein;
      (3)   Publish and distribute to the Committee members copies of the
minutes, reports, and decisions of the Committee;
      (4)   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all meetings conducted
by the Committee;
      (5)   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Committee and expiring terms
of Committee members;
      (6)   The liaison shall have no vote. (Ord. 007-2022, § 1, 2-28-2022)
Sec. 8-567. Meetings:
   The Committee shall meet no less than four (4) times each year at City Hall
and such further times as meetings are called by the Chair or a majority of the
members of said Committee. A quorum shall consist of a simple majority of the
voting members of the committee. A majority vote shall be required for loan
approval. One Committee member with financial experience will be required to be
present at any meeting in which a loan application is being reviewed for loan
approval. All meetings shall conform to the Open Meetings Act. (Ord. 007-2022,
§ 1, 2-28-2022)
Chapter 9
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC 1 , 2
 
Notes
  See also § 4-2, "House Movers"; § 4-54, "Signs Not To Constitute A Traffic
  Hazard"; § 7-56 et seq., recreational vehicle parks; § 7-81 et seq., mobile
1 home parks; § 8-234(d), vehicles on Great River Plaza; § 10-12, getting on or
  holding onto vehicles; § 10-58, "Criminal Trespass To Vehicles"; § 15-5,
  "Automobile Renting Occupation Tax"; and § 15-6, "Automobile Renting Use Tax",
  of this code.
2 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., 5/11-207, 5/11-208.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 9-1. Definitions:
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   Loading Zone: That space or area defined by ordinance as being reserved for
the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or
materials.
   Parkway: That part of the street which lies between the property line and
the curb.
   Property Line: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   Public Building: A building used by the city or by any park district, school
district, the state of Illinois or the United States government. (1963 Code,
ch. XI, art. I)
Sec. 9-2. Penalty 3 :
Except as otherwise provided herein:
Any individual violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or imprisoned for not more than six (6)
months for any offense.
Any firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined
not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (1963 Code, ch.
XI, art. X)
 
Notes
3 625 ILCS 5/6-601, 5/16-101 et seq.
Sec. 9-3. Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted 4 :
The provisions of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to the city, are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter with the same force
and effect as if set forth at length herein. It shall be unlawful for any
person to violate any of the provisions of the Illinois vehicle code.
Any person charged with any of the following violations:
Illinois Vehicle Code Section Offense
Illinois Vehicle Code Section Offense
3-402                         No valid registration
3-413(r)                      Operation of vehicle with expired registration,
                              plates or registration sticker
3-416                         Failure to notify secretary of state of change of
                              address/name
3-703                         Improper use of registration or title
6-101                         No valid driver's license (expired less than 6
                              months)
12-201(b)                     Taillights-none
12-201(b)                     No red taillights
12-201(b)                     Only one red taillight
12-211                        Improper lighting-one headlamp
 
shall have the option at arraignment of pleading "no contest" and paying a
penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00). At that time, the state charge shall
be dismissed by the office of the city attorney. (Ord. 87-41, 4-20-1987)
 
Notes
4 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., 5/20-204.
Sec. 9-4. Miscellaneous Ordinances Not Affected By Code:
Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance establishing or eliminating stop intersections, yield right of way
intersections, bus stops, through streets, cab stands or other motor vehicle or
traffic restrictions at specific locations, or authorizing traffic signals, or
prohibiting a right turn on a red light, or relating to a mass transit
district; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. This
chapter is intended to and shall be in addition to all other ordinances, rules
and regulations concerning traffic, parking and the use of the streets, and
shall not be taken to repeal any other ordinance or part of any ordinance
unless in direct conflict therewith. (1963 Code, ch. XI, art. XII)
Sec. 9-5. Tickets:
For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving, police
officers, after making note of the license number of the vehicle (and name of
the offender where possible), may issue a traffic violation ticket notifying
the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing such cases.
Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if the offender
does not appear at the time and place so specified. (1963 Code, ch. XI, art. X)
Sec. 9-6. Riding On Fenders, Etc.:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, hood, top,
running boards or outside step of any vehicle. (1963 Code, ch. XI, art. IV)
Sec. 9-7. Toy Vehicles Generally:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates or a coaster, sled or other toy
vehicle to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk. (1963 Code, ch. XI,
art. IV)
Sec. 9-8. Vehicles Prohibited On Certain Streets:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any truck, except for the purpose
of making a delivery and then for one block only, on any street so designated
by ordinance and properly signposted. For the purposes of this section the term
"truck" refers to any truck required to have a class "D" license under the
provisions of the Illinois vehicle code. (1963 Code, ch. XI, art. VII; Ord. 88-
57, § 1, 9-1-1988)
Sec. 9-9. Scene Of Fire:
The fire department officer in command, or any fireman designated by him, may
exercise the powers and authority of a policeman in directing traffic at the
scene of any fire or where the fire department has responded to any emergency
call for so long as fire department equipment is on the scene, in the absence
of or in assisting the police. (1963 Code, ch. XI, art. I)
Sec. 9-9.1. Sound Amplification Systems:
   (a)   Prohibited: No driver of any motor vehicle within the city of Rock
Island shall operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification system
which can be heard outside the vehicle from seventy five feet (75') or more,
when the vehicle is present upon a highway, unless such system is being
operated to request assistance or warn of a hazardous situation. This section
does not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (b)   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) and not more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00). In the event a person accused with a
violation of this section does not wish to contest the allegation, said person
may pay to the city of Rock Island police headquarters, within seven (7) days
of the issuance of the notice of violation, a penalty in the sum of seventy
five dollars ($75.00), which payment shall be in full satisfaction of the
violation. (Ord. 98-87, § 1, 10-26-1998; Ord. 98-90, § 1, 11-2-1998; Ord. 72-
2001, § 1, 9-17-2001)
Sec. 9-9.2. Unlawful Use Of Electronic Communication Devices:
   (a)   As used in this section "electronic communication device" means an
electronic device, including, but not limited to, a handheld wireless
telephone, handheld personal digital assistant, or a portable or mobile
computer, but does not include a global positioning system or navigation system
or a device that is physically or electronically integrated into the motor
vehicle.
   (b)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle on a roadway while using an
electronic communication device.
   (c)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer or operator of an emergency vehicle while
performing his or her official duties;
      (2)   A driver using an electronic communication device for the sole
purpose of reporting an emergency situation and continued communication with
emergency personnel during the emergency situation;
      (3)   A driver using an electronic communication device in hands free or
voice operated mode, which may include the use of a headset;
      (4)   A driver of a commercial motor vehicle reading a message displayed
on a permanently installed communication device designed for a commercial motor
vehicle with a screen that does not exceed ten inches tall by ten inches wide
(10" x 10") in size;
      (5)   A driver using an electronic communication device while parked on
the shoulder of a roadway;
      (6)   A driver using an electronic communication device when the vehicle
is stopped due to normal traffic being obstructed and the driver has the motor
vehicle transmission in neutral or park;
      (7)   A driver using two-way or citizens band radio services;
      (8)   A driver using two-way mobile radio transmitters or receivers for
licensees of the federal communications commission in the amateur radio
service;
      (9)   A driver using an electronic communication device by pressing a
single button to initiate or terminate a voice communication; or
      (10)   A driver using an electronic communication device capable of
performing multiple functions, other than a handheld wireless telephone or
handheld personal digital assistant (for example, a fleet management system,
dispatching device, citizens band radio, or music player) for a purpose that is
not otherwise prohibited by this section.
   (d)   A person who violates this section shall be fined a maximum of seventy
five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is accused of a violation and does
not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for
the violation, then the person so accused may pay to the city, at police
headquarters, a penalty in the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for and in
full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord. 029-2014, 3-24-2014)
Sec. 9-10. Bicycles-Bicycle Sales-Registration:
   (a)   Bicycle Dealer's License: It shall be unlawful to deal in sales of
three (3) or more bicycles within any calendar year without a bicycle dealer's
license. "Bicycle", for the purpose of this section, is any bicycle twenty
inches (20") or more in size.
   (b)   License Procedure:
      (1)   License Application: The application for a license hereunder shall
be made in writing to the City Clerk on a form provided by the City Clerk's
Office. Licenses are nontransferable.
      (2)   License Fee: The license fee for a bicycle dealer's license shall
be free and the license shall remain in effect from the date of issue until the
business is closed, sold, or ownership is transferred.
   (c)   Mandatory Registration Of Bicycles: It shall be mandatory for all
bicycle dealers dealing in the retail sale of bicycles within the City, to
register all bicycles size twenty inches (20") and over at the time of sale.
The registration forms and bicycle license plates shall be made available to
the businesses at no cost through the Police Department. The completed
registration forms shall be picked up twice a month by a member of the Police
Department. It shall be the responsibility of the business owner and/or manager
to notify the Police Department if they are in need of additional registration
forms and/or license plates. Persons registering a bicycle at the bicycle
dealer or at police headquarters shall not be charged a fee.
   (d)   Fine: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of these ordinances relating to bicycle dealer's license and procedures shall
be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (e)   Operation Of A Bicycle Without A License: No person who resides within
this City shall ride or propel a bicycle on any street, highway, road, etc., or
upon any public way set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles unless such
bicycle has been licensed and a license plate is attached thereto as provided
herein. That in the event a bicycle has been purchased outside the corporate
limits of the City or was sold within the City and has not been processed for a
license plate as set forth above, the bicycle shall be licensed through the
procedure set below:
      (1)   Registration Agency: Applications for registration should be issued
by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   Application Form: The application for a bicycle license shall be on
a form provided by the City.
      (3)   Proof Of Ownership: The Chief of Police shall refuse to issue a
license where he has reason to believe the applicant is not the owner of, or
entitled to possession of, the bicycle.
      (4)   Inspection: The Chief of Police or an officer assigned such
responsibility shall inspect each bicycle before licensing the same and shall
refuse a license for any bicycle which he determines is in unsafe mechanical
condition.
      (5)   Registration Plate Or Tag: Upon issuing a bicycle license, the
Chief of Police must also issue a plate or tag, which shall be firmly attached
to the bicycle in a manner as to be plainly visible from the rear.
      (6)   Records: The Chief of Police shall keep a record of the number of
each license, the date issued, the name and address of the person to whom
issued and the number on the frame of the bicycle for which issued.
      (7)   Duration-Transfer Of Ownership; Renewal: A bicycle license shall
remain valid as long as it remains the property of the initial owner. If sold,
traded, given away, etc., the new owner shall reregister the bicycle in their
name.
      (8)   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event a person accused with a violation
of this section who does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time
that complaint is issued for said violation, said person may pay to the City at
the Rock Island police headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifteen dollars
($15.00) for and in full satisfaction of said violation. In the event a person
is found guilty of violating the provisions of this section a second or more
time, he or she shall be fined in an amount equal the minimal fine. (1963 Code
art. 11-8; Ord., 2-23-1976; Ord., 8-14-1978; Ord. 96-64, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-69,
7-28-1997)
Sec. 9-11. Car Owner Responsibility Assignment:
This chapter is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and welfare of the people of the City, and is intended to
address a public nuisance created by individuals operating motor vehicles upon
the streets and highways of this City. (Ord. 96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-
14-1997)
Sec. 9-12. Public Nuisance:
   (a)   A motor vehicle that is used in the violation of any of the offenses
contained in this section shall be declared a public nuisance and the owner of
record shall be subject to having said vehicle impounded for lengths of
impoundment described in section 9-13 of this article and shall also be liable
to the City for the penalties indicated in section 9-13 of this article to
include the fees for the towing and storage of the vehicle and fines.
      (1)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle who
is in violation of section 9-9.1 of this article.
      (2)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle
where the windows of the motor vehicle are obstructed in violation of the
Illinois Vehicle Code 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-503(a) and (b).
      (3)   The driver of a motor vehicle who is in violation of the Illinois
Vehicle Code 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101 entitled "Drivers Must Have
Licenses and Permits" and the violator has an invalid driver's license or the
violator's driver's license has been expired for more than six (6) months.
      (4)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle is
in violation of section 10-90, "Truancy Prohibited", of this Code.
      (5)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle is
in violation of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 555/1 - Child Curfew Act and/or
subsection 10-59(a) of this Code, entitled "Curfew for Persons Under Seventeen
Years of Age".
      (6)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle
while being twenty (20) years of age or younger is in possession of alcohol in
violation of subsection 3-10(c), "Purchase And Consumption By Minors
Prohibited", of this Code.
      (7)   The driver of a motor vehicle who is in violation of the Illinois
Vehicle Code 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303 entitled "Driving While
Driver's License, Permit Or Privilege to Operate a Motor Vehicle Is Suspended
Or Revoked".
      (8)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle is
in violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 550/4(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e), entitled "Possession of Cannabis" and/
or Illinois Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/5(a), (b),
(c), (d) and (e), entitled "Manufacture Or Delivery of Cannabis". Possession of
cannabis up to ten grams (10 g) shall not be subject to this section.
      (9)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle who
is in violation of the Illinois Vehicle Code 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-501 entitled "Driving While Under the Influence of Alcohol, Other Drug Or
Drugs, Intoxicating Compound Or Compounds Or Any Combination Thereof".
      (10)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle is
in violation of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1(a)(4), entitled "Unlawful Use of Weapons".
      (11)   The motor vehicle is used in the commission of, or attempt to
commit a violation of Illinois Criminal Code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2, entitled "Aggravated Discharge of a Firearm" and/or Illinois Criminal
Code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.5, entitled "Reckless Discharge of
a Firearm".
      (12)   The driver or any other person in possession of a motor vehicle is
in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 570/402, entitled "Possession Unauthorized by This Act".
      (13)   The motor vehicle unlawfully flees or attempts to flee and elude a
peace officer in violation of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-204 or 5/11-204.1.
   (b)   The driver or other person in possession of the motor vehicle shall be
arrested or cited for the violations of the State Statute(s) or City ordinance
(s) as indicated in subsections (a)(1) through (a)(13) of this section. (Ord.
96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-14-1997; Ord. 98-88, 10-26-1998; Ord. 72-2001,
9-17-2001; Ord. 18-2004, 2-2-2004; Ord. 051-2012, 7-23-2012; Ord. 024-2018, 6-
11-2018)
Sec. 9-13. Length Of Impoundment And Fines:
   (a)   Whenever a vehicle is used in violation of subsections 9-12(a)(1)
through (a)(13) of this chapter the registered owner's vehicle shall be
impounded for the following lengths of time and a penalty imposed against the
registered vehicle owner as indicated herein:
      (1)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
chapter, motor vehicle impounded for three (3) days and a fine of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
      (2)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(4) or (a)(5) of this chapter, motor
vehicle impounded for seven (7) days and a fine of two hundred dollars
($200.00).
      (3)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(6) or (a)(7) of this chapter, motor
vehicle impounded for fourteen (14) days and a fine of five hundred eighty
dollars ($580.00).
      (4)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(8) or (a)(9) of this chapter, motor
vehicle impounded for twenty (20) days and a fine of five hundred eighty
dollars ($580.00).
      (5)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(10) or (a)(11) of this chapter,
motor vehicle impounded for thirty (30) days and a fine of five hundred eighty
dollars ($580.00).
      (6)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(12) of this chapter, motor vehicle
impounded for thirty (30) days and a fine of five hundred eighty dollars
($580.00).
      (7)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(13) of this chapter, motor vehicle
impounded for thirty (30) days and a fine of five hundred eighty dollars
($580.00). (Ord. 96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-14-1997; Ord. 18-2004, § 2, 2-
2-2004; Ord. 24-2004, § 1, 2-16-2004; Ord. 051-2012, 7-23-2012)
Sec. 9-14. Fines And Subsequent Violations:
All lengths of impoundment and fines imposed shall double upon any subsequent
violation of this article. (Ord. 96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-14-1997)
Sec. 9-14.1. Impoundment With Respect To Sound Amplification Systems
Violations:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this or other ordinances, there shall
be no impoundment of an owner's vehicle for the vehicle's operation as a public
nuisance in violation of subsection 9-12(a)(1) of this chapter when that
vehicle has not been so operated as a public nuisance in violation of
subsection 9-12(a)(1) of this chapter for a period of two (2) or more years.
However, the owner of a vehicle that is not impounded because of the preceding
sentence shall pay a fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) if the vehicle is
found to have been operated as a public nuisance in violation of subsection 9-
12(a)(1) of this chapter. For second and subsequent operations of a given
owner's vehicle as a public nuisance in violation of subsection 9-12(a)(1) of
this chapter that occur within two (2) years of the most recent violation of
that section, all other provisions of sections 9-11 through 9-20 of this
chapter shall be fully operable. (Ord. 72-2001, § 1, 9-17-2001)
Sec. 9-15. Seizure, Impoundment And Hearings Request:
Whenever a police officer has reasonable suspicion to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this article, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by the
City or its agents. When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify
the person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation, if there is such a person, and the owner of said vehicle of
the fact of the seizure and the vehicle owner's right to post a cash bond as
indicated in subsections 9-16(a)(1) through (a)(6) of this chapter to retrieve
possession of their vehicle pending a hearing to be held by the City's Code
Hearing Officer. When the vehicle is not impounded for a first offense pursuant
to section 9-14.1 of this chapter, the police officer shall notify the
vehicle's owner that second and subsequent uses of the vehicle as a public
nuisance in violation of subsection 9-12(a)(1) of this chapter that occur
within two (2) years of the most recent use as a public nuisance shall result
in the impoundment of the vehicle pursuant to this section. The notification
shall also explain the vehicle owner's right to a hearing with respect to the
alleged violation. When a vehicle is impounded, the officer shall also notify
the owner and person in control of the vehicle of the owner's right to a
probable cause hearing as set forth in subsection 9-17(i) of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-14-1997; Ord. 72-2001, § 1, 9-17-2001)
Sec. 9-15.1. Vehicle Involved In An Unlawful Attempt To Flee And Elude A Peace
Officer:
   (a)   Declared A Nuisance: A vehicle involved in an unlawful attempt to flee
and elude a peace officer in violation of section 11-204 or 11-204.1 of the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code 1  and is not immediately stopped by the police and
the driver placed under arrest is declared to be a public nuisance under
subsection 9-12(a)(13) of this chapter and said vehicle is subject to being
immediately towed by the police.
   (b)   Vehicle Subject To Seizure And Impoundment: Whenever a police officer
has observed a vehicle engaged in an unlawful attempt to flee and elude and
believes that there exists probable cause to tow said vehicle, and locates said
vehicle on a public thoroughfare or within a parking lot under City ordinance
control or a parking lot open to the general public within the City of Rock
Island, Illinois, before the end of his or her watch, then said vehicle may be
seized and impounded by the Rock Island Ppolice Department. Notice shall be
given to the person in control of the vehicle and the owner of the vehicle as
described in subsection (g) of this section.
   (c)   Incident Report: Whenever a police officer has observed a vehicle
engaged in an unlawful attempt to flee and elude and said vehicle is not
located by the police before the end of his or her watch, said officer shall at
the end of his or her watch prepare a written incident report which provides a
record, if possible, of the make, model, year, color, state of registration,
license plate number, identification of the driver, location of the incident
and the date and time of the incident. Said report shall include information
sufficient to support the determination of probable cause to tow, including
information of the officer's attempts to stop the vehicle at the time of the
occurrence, and that the driver failed or refused to stop after the officer
activated the squad car's emergency signal equipment and that pursuit of the
vehicle was abandoned for public safety reasons.
   (d)   Interim Seizure: Upon completion of the report, the officer shall give
the report to the watch commander or his or her designee for interim seizure
and impoundment authorization of said vehicle. Once authorized, said vehicle
may be seized and impounded by police based upon the reporting officer's
probable cause for a period of ninety six (96) hours prior to the filing of a
"notice of intent to impound" as described in subsection (e) of this section.
If said vehicle is towed within the ninety six (96) hour period and before a
"notice of intent to tow" is filed as described in subsection (e) of this
section, notice shall be given to the person in control of the vehicle and the
owner of the vehicle as described in subsection (g) of this section. "Notice of
intent to tow" under subsection (e) of this section may be filed at any time
after the officer prepares his or her written incident report.
   (e)   Notice Of Intent To Impound: If said vehicle is not located within
ninety six (96) hours, the police department may file a "notice of intent to
impound" with the administrative clerk of MUNICES. Once filed, said vehicle may
be seized and impounded by police if located on a public thoroughfare or within
a parking lot under city ordinance control, or a parking lot open to the
general public within the city of Rock Island, Illinois, pending a plenary
hearing as described in subsection 9-17(b) of this chapter. The notice of
intent to impound shall include the following information:
      (1)   A statement that the operator on the date, time, and approximate
location of the incident in question failed or refused to stop operation of the
vehicle when ordered to do so by the police officer;
      (2)   A description of the vehicle as contained in the police officer's
report;
      (3)   Notice that a plenary hearing on the merits to contest the
eligibility for impoundment of the motor vehicle shall be scheduled on a
specified date at one o'clock (1:00) P.M. in the city hall chambers of the city
of Rock Island, Illinois, 1528 3rd Avenue, Rock Island, Illinois. Said hearing
date shall be scheduled as described in subsection 9-17(b) of this chapter;
      (4)   Notice that if said vehicle, as described in the notice of intent
to impound, is located on a public thoroughfare or within a parking lot under
city ordinance control or a parking lot open to the general public within the
city of Rock Island, Illinois, at any time prior to the scheduled plenary
hearing as described in subsection (e)(3) of this section, that said vehicle is
subject to immediate impoundment and seizure;
      (5)   That the owner is entitled to have a preliminary hearing and/or
post bond to retrieve the vehicle prior to the scheduled plenary hearing as
described in subsection (g) of this section.
   (f)   Delivery Of Notice: Upon filing the "notice of intent to impound" with
the administrative clerk of MUNICES, notice shall be sent by regular mail to
the vehicle's owner of record. The notice is presumed delivered upon it being
deposited with the United States postal service with proper postage being
affixed thereto.
   (g)   Preliminary Hearing And Posting Of Bond:
      (1)   Whenever any officer of the Rock Island police department has
probable cause to believe that a vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to subsection (b), (d) or (e) of this section, and said vehicle is
located on a public thoroughfare or within a parking lot under city ordinance
control or a parking lot open to the general public within the city of Rock
Island, Illinois, said officer shall seize said vehicle and provide for its
towing and impoundment. When the vehicle is towed the officer shall notify the
person in control of the vehicle and the owner of the vehicle of the owner's
right to request a preliminary hearing to determine if there was probable cause
to believe that a driver of said vehicle was involved in an unlawful attempt to
flee and elude a police officer and of his or her right to post a cash bond as
indicated in section 9-16(a)(7) of this chapter to retrieve possession of said
vehicle prior to any preliminary hearings or plenary hearings on the merits.
Notice shall also be given to the owner of said vehicle of the date and time of
the plenary hearing on the merits as described in subsection 9-17(b) of this
chapter. All hearings on the merits will be held on the scheduled date and time
in the city hall chambers of the city of Rock Island, Illinois.
      (2)   All requests for preliminary hearing shall be in writing and
delivered to the Rock Island police department within twenty four (24) hours of
the seizure. All preliminary hearings shall be held within seventy two (72)
hours, excluding weekends and holidays, after the written request for hearing
is delivered to the police department.
      (3)   All preliminary hearings will be conducted by the administrative
code hearing officer.
      (4)   The vehicle so seized shall be impounded pending completion of any
preliminary hearings or plenary hearings on the merits and for the minimum time
of impoundment set by subsection 9-13(a)(7) of this chapter if a violation of
this section is found.
      (5)   If, after proceeding with a preliminary hearing, the administrative
hearing officer determines there was probable cause to tow, or if no timely
request for preliminary hearing is filed by the owner, said matter will be
scheduled for plenary hearing on the merits. Said hearing date shall proceed as
described in subsection 9-17(b) of this chapter.
      (6)   All hearings conducted under this section shall proceed in
accordance with the rules and procedures described in subsections 9-17(b)
through (h) of this chapter. (Ord. 051-2012, 7-23-2012)
 
Notes
1 625 ILCS 5/11-204, 5/11-204.1.
Sec. 9-16. Bonding Procedure:
   (a)   Whenever the owner of a vehicle seized pursuant to this article wishes
to retrieve their vehicle prior to the evidentiary hearing they may do so by
posting a cash bond at police headquarters in the amount indicated herein. Once
the bond has been posted, the vehicle shall be released without charge until an
evidentiary hearing is held by the city code hearing officer.
      (1)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this
chapter, bond of two hundred forty five dollars ($245.00).
      (2)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(4) or (a)(5) of this chapter, bond
of three hundred fifty five dollars ($355.00).
      (3)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(6) or (a)(7) of this chapter, bond
of eight hundred forty dollars ($840.00).
      (4)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(8) or (a)(9) of this chapter, bond
of nine hundred thirty dollars ($930.00).
      (5)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(10) or (a)(11) of this chapter,
bond of one thousand eighty dollars ($1,080.00).
      (6)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(12) of this chapter, bond of one
thousand eighty dollars ($1,080.00).
      (7)   Violation of subsection 9-12(a)(13) of this chapter, bond of one
thousand eighty dollars ($1,080.00). (Ord. 96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-14-
1997; Ord. 58-00, § 1, 8-14-2000; Ord. 01-10, § 1, 2-5-2001; Ord. 05-2003, § 1,
1-27-2003; Ord. 25-2004, § 1, 2-16-2004; Ord. 004-2006, § 1, 1-23-2006; Ord.
081-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008; Ord. 051-2012, 7-23-2012)
Sec. 9-17. Hearing And Notification:
   (a)   Within ten (10) business days after a vehicle is seized and impounded
pursuant to this article, or not impounded by operation of section 9-14.1 of
this chapter, the city shall notify by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the owner of record, any lienholders or other legally entitled
persons of the date, time and location of a hearing that will be conducted
pursuant to this section. When the city does not know the identity of the
registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person, the city will
cause the vehicle registration records of the state of Illinois to be searched
by the secretary of state for purposes of obtaining the required ownership
information.
   (b)   A hearing shall be scheduled and held, unless continued by order of
the city code hearing officer, on the first and third Friday of each month on
the Friday following the day the vehicle was seized if not within seven (7)
days. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the
hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. The hearing shall be open to
the public and a court reporter shall transcribe the proceedings. If the city
of Rock Island shall enter into an intergovernmental agreement providing for
the shared use of the code enforcement hearing officer, the notice and hearing
date rules established pursuant to the intergovernmental agreement shall apply
to this subsection.
   (c)   If, after the hearing, the city code hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle had been stolen prior to the
alleged violation, he shall enter an order dismissing the procedure. If,
however, he determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was
not stolen prior to the violation, he shall enter an order requiring the
vehicle to continue to be impounded for the applicable length of time provided
for in this section and until the owner pays the fees imposed under sections 9-
13 and 9-14 of this chapter if the vehicle is still in the custody of the city.
If the vehicle is not in the city's custody then subsection (d) of this section
shall apply.
   (d)   If a bond had been posted and the owner has possession of the vehicle,
the city code hearing officer shall enter an order deducting the fees imposed
under sections 9-13 and 9-14 of this chapter as if the vehicle was actually
held for the time period specified from the cash bond that was posted.
   (e)   In the event the defendant wishes to appeal the decision of the city
code hearing officer under the provisions of the administrative review act,
said defendant shall pay the cost of the preparation and transcription of the
record of the hearing and shall appeal to the circuit court.
   (f)   If the city code hearing officer determines that there is no such
probable cause, the vehicle will be returned without penalty or other fees.
   (g)   The penalty and fees shall be a debt due and owed to the city.
However, if a cash bond has been posted the bond shall be applied to the fine.
If the city code hearing officer determines that the vehicle was not used with
the permission, express or implied, of the owner, he or she shall order the
return of the vehicle or cash bond. In the event it shall become necessary for
the city to collect the debt by filing an action in the circuit court, they
shall be entitled to recover, in addition to the amount due, court costs and
reasonable attorney fees.
   (h)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, any lienholder
of record may obtain possession of any seized and impounded vehicles they have
a legal lien interest in by: 1) submitting to the city verified proof that they
have commenced foreclosure proceedings against the registered owner of said
vehicle, 2) payment of the towing and storage fees for the periods of time said
vehicle was to be held under section 9-13 of this chapter and 3) providing a
written agreement to refund to the city the net proceeds of any foreclosure
sale, over and above the amounts necessary to satisfy any liens, to be applied
by the city to satisfy any penalties and costs imposed under sections 9-13 and
9-14 of this chapter.
   (i)   In addition to the hearing procedures set forth in the preceding
subsections of this section, every owner who has his or her car impounded
pursuant to this chapter shall be entitled to a probable cause hearing before
the city's code hearing officer, or if he or she is not available, before an
impartial Illinois licensed attorney at law, on the question of whether or not
the vehicle has been operated as a public nuisance in violation of section 9-12
(a) of this chapter. This hearing, if requested, shall occur no later than two
(2) business days from the time of the owner's request for such a hearing. The
owner's request for a probable cause hearing must be made in writing to the
city of Rock Island police department within three (3) days of receiving notice
of the right to such a probable cause hearing. (Ord. 96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-
50, 7-14-1997; Ord. 98-57, § 1, 8-24-1998; Ord. 33-00, § 1, 6-5-2000; Ord. 72-
2001, § 1, 9-17-2001; Ord. 081-2010, 12-13-2010)
Sec. 9-18. Unclaimed Vehicles:
Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within thirty (30) days after the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the city's action under this article, or the time at which a final
judgment is rendered in favor of the city, or the time a final administrative
decision is rendered against an owner of record who is in default may be
disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law. As used in this
article, the "owner of record" of a vehicle means the record titleholder. (Ord.
96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-14-1997)
Sec. 9-19. Fees And Storage:
Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this article shall be the same
as those charged per the contract for towing service with the city in effect at
the time of same violation. (Ord. 96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-14-1997)
Sec. 9-20. Severability:
If any provision or part of this article shall be found unconstitutional or
outside the corporate or home rule powers of the city, the remaining provisions
shall continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 96-66, 9-16-1996; Ord. 97-50, 7-
14-1997)
Sec. 9-21. Authority To Impound Fleeing Vehicles:
(Rep. by Ord. 051-2012, 7-23-2012)
Secs. 9-22-9-25. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. PARKING 1
 
Notes
1 625 ILCS 5/1-208.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 9-26. Penalty:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any person who violates any of the
parking ordinances of the city, other than a private parking ordinance
violation, a zoned parking ordinance violation, or a violation of downtown
restricted parking use ordinance, and who receives a ticket therefor, shall pay
a fine of twenty dollars ($20.00). In the event the fine is not paid within
seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the operator of the vehicle shall pay
as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation the sum of forty
dollars ($40.00). Any person violating the private parking ordinance in the
city shall pay a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). In the event the fine is
not paid within seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the operator of the
vehicle shall pay as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation
the sum of forty five dollars ($45.00). Any person who violates any of the
parking ordinances of the city at a location where tow away placards have been
posted on parking control signs shall pay a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). In
the event the fine is not paid within seven (7) days of the date of the notice,
the operator of the vehicle shall pay as a penalty for and in full satisfaction
of such violation the sum of seventy dollars ($70.00). Any person who receives
a ticket for parking at any curb within five feet (5') of a fire hydrant shall
pay a fine of thirty five dollars ($35.00). In the event the fine is not paid
within seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the operator of the vehicle
shall pay as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation the sum
of fifty five dollars ($55.00). This section shall not apply to provisions in
this article with different penalties from the above. All fines for parking
violations may be paid by credit card by calling the finance department for the
city of Rock Island, Illinois. An additional five dollar ($5.00) processing fee
will be charged for this service. (Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-27. Miscellaneous Ordinances Not Affected By Code:
Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance prohibiting or regulating parking on specified public or private
property, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. (Ord.
92-12, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-28. Liability Of Owner:
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this article, the person in whose name such vehicle is
registered, as well as the operator of the vehicle and the vehicle itself,
shall be subject to the penalty for such violation. (1963 Code, Ch. XI, Arts. X
and XII; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-29. Unattended Vehicles:
No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is running,
and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline unless the
vehicle is secured against moving. (1963 Code, Ch. XI, Art. IV; Ord. 92-12, 1-
20-1992)
Sec. 9-30. Impoundment Of Vehicles Generally:
   (a)   An unattended vehicle stopped, standing or parked, or occupying any
portion of any street, in violation of any of the provisions of any of the
ordinances of the city, including, without limitation, traffic and parking
ordinances and nontraffic ordinances such as those prohibiting the obstruction
of a fire hydrant, or left parked overnight in any city parking lot is hereby
declared to be a nuisance, which may be abated by any agent or employee of the
city designated to enforce the parking ordinances of the city by impounding
such vehicle and by removing and conveying such vehicle or by causing such
vehicle to be removed and conveyed to a vehicle pound. A vehicle pound is
hereby declared to be any suitable place designated by the city as a vehicle
pound. The owner or operator of such vehicle may have the same removed from the
impoundment by paying the costs and expenses of the towage and impounding of
such vehicle, together with all fines and penalties, as provided in this
chapter.
   (b)   In all cases of violations herein referred to, the right to impound
shall be in addition to any other remedy provided in this chapter, or any other
remedy provided by law. Whenever any vehicle, while being used without the
consent of the owner, shall be stopped, standing, or parked in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, such owner shall not be subject to the
penalty for such violations. (1963 Code, Ch. XI, Art. X; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992;
Ord. 93-11, 3-1-1993)
Sec. 9-31. Abandoned Vehicles:
(Rep. by Ord. 39-00, § 1, 6-26-2000)
Sec. 9-31a. Inoperable Motor Vehicles:
(Rep. by Ord. 39-00, § 1, 6-26-2000)
Sec. 9-32. No Parking Places:
At any time it shall be unlawful for any person to permit any vehicle to stand
in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a policeman or traffic
signal:
      (1)   In any intersection.
      (2)   In a crosswalk.
      (3)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or the approach
thereto.
      (4)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of a point on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
      (5)   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal or a through street
sign on the approaching side.
      (6)   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection.
      (7)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
      (8)   At any curb within five feet (5') of a fire hydrant.
      (9)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
      (10)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
      (11)   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
department station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any
such station within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance.
      (12)   On any sidewalk or parkway except as provided in section
9-33 of this division.
      (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      (14)   At any bus stop.
      (15)   On any bicycle or pedestrian path.
      (16)   In a Rock Island city park in violation of posted parking
requirements. (1963 Code, Ch. XI, Art. VI; Ord., 5-19-1975; Ord., 12-15-1975;
Ord., 1-9-1978; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992; Ord. 93-11, 3-1-1993; Ord. 030-2007, §
1, 4-23-2007)
Sec. 9-33. Parking On Public Property:
Parking of motor vehicles may be allowed on parkways, boulevards or other areas
of dedicated right of way not being used as part of the traveled way when
authorized by special ordinance. Such ordinance may place conditions,
restrictions and limitations on parking. (Ord., 1-9-1978; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-
1992)
Sec. 9-34. Cabstands; Bus Stands; Limited Parking At Bus Stops:
   (a)   Generally: No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in
any area designated by special ordinance as a cabstand, and no vehicle other
than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone
except as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
   (b)   Limited Parking At Bus Stops; Signs:
      (1)   The following bus stop parking locations located in the city may
hereinafter be used for open parking after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. each day.
         a.   Downtown, as being bounded by 15th Street on the west, 24th
Street on the east, 1st Avenue on the north and 5th Avenue on the south, and
including twenty one (21) bus stops.
         b.   At 1230 30th Street.
         c.   On 14th Avenue at 40th Street.
      (2)   If a bus parking location is to be available at certain times for
public parking, signs shall be added below the bus stop signs indicating the
times that the bus parking location is available for public parking and any
applicable parking time limitations. (1963 Code, Ch. XI, Art. VI; Ord. 89-11,
3-20-1989; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-35. Parking At Curb:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb
except on one-way streets where parking is permitted on both sides thereof, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park any vehicle in a street
other than parallel with the curb and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle
within twelve inches (12") of the regularly established curb; except that upon
those streets that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked
at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks with the front wheels at the
curb. Trucks may back to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading for
actual periods of time necessary for loading or unloading, but in no case shall
they interfere with the movement of traffic. (1963 Code, Ch. XI, Art. VI; Ord.
92-12, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-36. Vehicles For Sale:
(Rep. by Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-37. Loading Zones:
   (a)   During the times specified in this section, it shall be unlawful for
the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time
longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to
exceed three (3) minutes, and for the driver to stand any vehicle of the second
division, as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-217, being used for
carrying freight, goods, wares or merchandise for a period of time longer than
is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed thirty (30)
minutes, in any of the following places:
      (1)   In any public alley during any hour of the day or night except that
the delivery vehicle shall not block access to and from the alley at any time.
      (2)   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hotel at any time.
      (3)   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building, between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on Sunday.
      (4)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater for the purpose of
loading or unloading of passengers or for the purpose of purchasing theater
tickets for a period not to exceed three (3) minutes.
      (5)   At any other location in the city as is designated by special
ordinance. Such ordinance may designate the hours that the area shall be used
as a loading zone. At any other time, the area can be used generally for
parking.
   (b)   Any person operating a vehicle other than a second division vehicle to
pick up or deliver goods or merchandise may apply at the finance department for
a permit to display in the windshield stating that the vehicle is an authorized
delivery vehicle. Such permit will be granted when proof of such use is
presented to the finance department and upon payment of a ten dollar ($10.00)
fee per year.
   (c)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined fifteen dollars ($15.00). In the event the fine is not paid within seven
(7) days of the date of the notice, the operator of the vehicle shall pay as
the penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation the sum of thirty
five dollars ($35.00). (1963 Code, ch. XI, art. VI; Ord., 8-30-1971; Ord., 1-
26-1976; Ord., 5-2-1977; Ord., 9-25-1978; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992; Ord. 100-2001,
§ 1, 12-17-2001; Ord. 20-2002, § 1, 3-18-2002; Ord. 08-2003, § 1, 2-10-2003;
Ord. 005-2010, § 2, 1-18-2010; Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-38. Alleys:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley except as provided in section 9-
37 of this chapter and shall then park only in such manner or under such
conditions as to leave available not less than ten feet (10') of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic; and no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1963 Code, ch. XI, art. VI; Ord.
92-12, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-39. Double Parking:
It shall be unlawful for any person to double park any vehicle in the city at
any time. Any person violating this provision shall be fined fifteen dollars
($15.00). In the event the fine is not paid within seven (7) days of the date
of the notice, the operator of the vehicle shall pay as the penalty for and in
full satisfaction of such violation the sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00).
(Ord. 005-2010, § 3, 1-18-2010; Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-40. Fire Lanes:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any area designated
as a fire lane by special ordinance in the city. Any agent or employee of the
city designated to enforce the parking ordinances of the city is hereby
authorized to cause any motor vehicle parked in a fire lane in this city to be
towed from the fire lane. In such a case, the owner of the vehicle shall be
assessed the cost of towing and any storage charges in relation thereto plus a
fine of thirty five dollars ($35.00). In the event the fine is not paid within
seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the operator of the vehicle shall pay
the penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation the sum of fifty
five dollars ($55.00). (Ord. 013-2011, 2-21-2011; Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-41. Snow Removal 1 :
   (a)   In the event of two inches (2") or more of snow, it shall be unlawful
for any person to park or allow a motor vehicle to remain on any street or
avenue in the central business district between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. The "central business district" shall be
defined as the area circumscribed by and including the following:
      1st Avenue, 14th Street to 21st Street
      5th Avenue, 14th Street to 21st Street
      14th Street, 1st Avenue to 5th Avenue
      21st Street, 1st Avenue to 5th Avenue
   (b)   In the event of two inches (2") or more of snow, it shall be unlawful
for any person to park or allow a motor vehicle to remain on any marked snow
route until the snow has been cleared.
   (c)   This section shall affect other parking restriction ordinances that
are presently in effect in the city, except bus stop and loading zone
ordinances.
   (d)   Whenever the city manager or mayor perceives an emergency to exist in
the city or in any section or sections thereof because of snow, freezing rain,
sleet, ice, snowdrifts or other natural phenomena which create hazardous
conditions or impede the free movement of fire, police, health, emergency or
other vehicular traffic or otherwise endanger the safety and welfare of the
public, the city manager or mayor may declare an emergency to exist. Notice of
the existence of an emergency and the terms and termination thereof shall be
given to the print, radio and television media, which shall be requested to
cooperate with the city in the dissemination of such information to the public.
When given, such notice shall constitute due and proper notice of the emergency
and the terms and conditions thereof.
   (e)   Any agent or employee of the city designated to enforce the parking
ordinances of the city is hereby authorized to cause any motor vehicle in
violation of this section to be towed from any snow route. In such a case the
owner of the vehicle may be assessed the cost of towing and any storage charges
in relation thereto plus a fine of thirty five dollars ($35.00). In the event
the fine is not paid within seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the
operator of the vehicle shall pay as the penalty for and in full satisfaction
of such violation the sum of fifty five dollars ($55.00). (Ord., 12-17-1979;
Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992; Ord. 20-2002, § 1, 3-18-2002; Ord. 08-2003, § 1, 2-10-
2003; Ord. 005-2010, § 5, 1-18-2010; Ord. 013-2011, 2-21-2011; Ord. 058-2015,
12-14-2015)
 
Notes
1 625 ILCS 5/11-208.
Sec. 9-42. Parking On Private Property 2 :
   (a)   No person, firm or corporation shall park a motor vehicle on private
property controlled by a private parking ordinance passed by the city council
without the consent of the property owner. The owner of said property shall pay
an annual fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to the city of Rock Island
and shall post a sign or signs on said premises indicating that:
      (1)   Parking is prohibited without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Parking a motor vehicle without the consent of the property owner
is a violation of city ordinance;
      (3)   The owner of any vehicle violating the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00); and
      (4)   Any vehicle violating the provisions of this section may be
impounded and the owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all costs of
the towing and impoundment.
The size, design, number and location of these signs shall be approved by the
Rock Island public works department.
   (b)   The owner of any vehicle violating the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). In the event that
the fine is not paid within seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the owner
of the vehicle shall pay as the penalty for and in full satisfaction of such
violation the sum of forty five dollars ($45.00).
Any vehicle violating the provisions of this section may be impounded as
described in section 9-30 of this chapter. (Ord., 2-19-1979; Ord. 87-54, 4-6-
1987; Ord. 91-13, 2-11-1991; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992; Ord. 92-112, 8-24-1992;
Ord. 36-00, § 1, 6-5-2000; Ord. 20-2002, § 1, 3-18-2002; Ord. 08-2003, § 1, 2-
10-2003; Ord. 005-2010, § 6, 1-18-2010; Ord. 006-2011, 2-7-2011; Ord. 058-2015,
12-14-2015)
 
Notes
2 65 ILCS 5/1-1-7; 625 ILCS 5/11-209 et seq.
Sec. 9-43. Parking Large Trucks In Residential Zones:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Park any truck, except public service vehicles, with an allowable
gross vehicle weight of ten thousand (10,000) pounds or more, abutting or
adjacent to any lot zoned under residential classifications as set forth in the
zoning ordinance of the city, except for the purpose of making a delivery, and
then only for such length of time as it takes to complete delivery.
      (2)   Park a garbage or refuse truck on any public or private property in
the city unless the property is zoned I-1 or I-2, as defined in the zoning
ordinance of the city.
   (b)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a fine of twenty dollars ($20.00). In the event the fine is not paid within
seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the operator of the vehicle shall pay
as the penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation the sum of forty
dollars ($40.00).
   (c)   For each day that any such truck remains parked in such an area, it
shall be considered a separate violation under the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 82-79, 3-14-1983; Ord. 83-13, 5-23-1983; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992; Ord. 96-
40, 6-10-1996; Ord. 20-2002, § 1, 3-18-2002; Ord. 005-2010, § 7, 1-18-2010;
Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-44. Parking Enforcement Attendants; Positions Created:
There is hereby created the position of parking enforcement attendant. A
sufficient number of attendants shall be employed. These attendants may be
employed by the city or may be third party contract employees. These attendants
shall issue parking tickets against any person or persons violating any of the
rules, regulations or ordinances pertaining to parking as set forth in this
article. Such parking tickets shall be placed upon the windshield of any motor
vehicle found parked in violation of such regulations and ordinances. The
attendants shall not be members of the police department, nor shall they have
the power to make arrests or direct or regulate traffic; but their
authorization and duties shall be limited strictly to those set forth in this
section. (Ord. 052-2014, 7-14-2014)
Sec. 9-45. Impoundment For Unpaid Violations:
   (a)   Whenever it is determined that any vehicle has accumulated five (5) or
more parking tickets or fifty dollars ($50.00) or more worth of accumulated
parking violations as defined in the provisions of this code, the public works
director shall serve notice of such condition to the registered owner of the
vehicle. Service may be made by certified or registered mail or by personal
service. The notice shall state the date and nature of each ticket and the
amount presently due and shall inform the vehicle owner of the following
procedures:
      (1)   The vehicle owner may obtain a review of the tickets by giving
written notice to the public works director within fifteen (15) days of the
date of receipt of the notice of unpaid tickets, requesting a conference with
the public works director.
      (2)   If within fifteen (15) days of the date of the receipt of the
notice of unpaid tickets, the vehicle owner has not either given written notice
requesting a conference or paid the full amount of the unpaid tickets, it shall
be deemed that he has waived the right to a conference, and the full unpaid
amount of the tickets shall be due immediately.
      (3)   If the vehicle owner fails to either give written notice requesting
a conference or to pay the full amount of the unpaid tickets within the
prescribed time period, such vehicle shall be subject to impoundment.
   (b)   The public works director shall schedule a conference to be held not
less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after receiving written
notice from the vehicle owner requesting the conference. After a review of the
tickets at the conference, the public works director shall determine the amount
due up to the full amount of the unpaid tickets and shall inform the vehicle
owner of the decision. Unless other arrangements for the payment are made by
the public works director and approved by the finance director, the amount
shall be paid within fifteen (15) days. If, after reaching an agreement
concerning payment of the tickets, the vehicle owner fails to make any payment
when due, the vehicle of such owner shall thereupon be subject to impoundment
until all payments then due are made. The public works director and the finance
director shall have full authority to make binding agreements concerning
payments due, if any, and may agree to payments and other terms which they deem
to be in the best interests of the city.
   (c)   When any vehicle owner within fifteen (15) days of the date of receipt
of the notice of unpaid tickets required by subsection (a) of this section has
not either paid the full amount of the unpaid tickets or given written notice
to the public works director requesting a conference, or when any vehicle owner
after an agreement with the public works director as described in subsection
(b) of this section fails to make any payment when due and such payment has not
yet been made, the vehicle of such owner thereafter found parked and unattended
on a public right of way in the city, within the municipal parking ramp or
within a city parking lot, by any agent or employee of the city designated to
enforce the parking ordinances of the city, may be impounded.
   (d)   Impoundment shall constitute either impoundment by immobilization or
by towing.
      (1)   Impoundment by immobilization shall be accomplished by the
attachment of a mechanical device such as a denver boot consisting of clamps or
jaws and a locking device which, when attached to the wheel of a vehicle,
prevents the vehicle from being driven. If a vehicle that has been impounded by
immobilization has not been reclaimed within twenty four (24) hours, the
immobilization device may be released and the vehicle may be impounded by
towing.
      (2)   Impoundment by towing shall be accomplished by removing and
conveying such vehicle or by causing such vehicle to be removed and conveyed to
a vehicle pound. A vehicle pound is hereby declared to be any suitable place
designated by the city as a vehicle pound.
   (e)   Any vehicle impounded pursuant to the provisions herein may be
reclaimed by the registered owner or operator by appearing at the police
department. At such time, the owner or the operator shall sign a certificate
that he/she is the owner or operator of the impounded vehicle, pay all charges
and costs incurred in impounding the vehicle, and pay all outstanding parking
fines and late payment penalties. In lieu of paying these charges, costs,
fines, and penalties, the owner or operator may execute a binding payment
agreement. The agreement shall be a standard prepared in advance by the public
works director with the approval of the finance director, and it shall contain
a payment schedule and the penalties for failure to fulfill the conditions of
the agreement.
   (f)   The public works director and finance director may designate others to
exercise powers and perform functions provided in this section.
   (g)   The fine for impoundment by immobilization shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and the fine for impoundment by towing shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992; Ord. 92-112, 8-24-1992; Ord. 08-
2003, § 1, 2-10-2003)
Sec. 9-46. Suspension Of Driver's License:
   (a)   Notice Of Intent To Impound: Once the registered owner of a vehicle
has been delivered the notice of intent to impound a vehicle for unpaid parking
violations through certified mail, registered mail, or personal service and
allows the fifteen (15) day time period to expire without seeking further
review or breaks an agreement concerning the payment of tickets, the public
works director may initiate driver's license suspension with the Illinois
secretary of state and/or file a petition in the circuit court to have the
unpaid fines and penalties rendered as a judgment in favor of the city.
   (b)   Notice Of Impending Suspension: A notice of impending driver's license
suspension shall be sent to the owner for any fine or penalty that remains due
and owing on ten (10) or more parking violations. This notice shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary
of state. Failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within forty five (45) days
of the notice's date will result in the public works director notifying the
secretary of state that this person is eligible for initiation of suspension
proceedings.
   (c)   Report Of Public Works Director: The report of the public works
director notifying the secretary of state of unpaid fines or penalties shall be
certified and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, last known address and driver's license of the person who
failed to pay the fine or penalty and the registration number of any vehicle
known to be registered to such people in this state;
      (2)   The name of the municipality making the report;
      (3)   A statement that the municipality sent a notice of impending
driver's license suspension to the person named in the report at the address
recorded with the secretary of state; the date which the notice was sent; and
the address to which the notice was sent.
   (d)   Suspension Challenge: The vehicle owner may challenge the notice of
impending driver's license suspension within forty five (45) days of the date
of the notice. Challenges will be strictly limited to:
      (1)   The person not having been the owner or the lessee of the vehicle.
      (2)   The person having already paid the fine or penalty for the ten (10)
or more violations indicated on the certified report.
   (e)   Obtain Judgment: The public works director may commence a proceeding
in the circuit court for the purpose of obtaining a judgment after the fifteen
(15) day time period during which an administrative review may be sought. This
shall not prevent the city from consolidating multiple license plates or
parking violations against a person in such proceeding. (Ord. 95-27, 4-10-1995)
Sec. 9-47. Increased Fine For Unauthorized Use Of A Parking Place Reserved For
Handicapped Persons:
Any person making an unauthorized use of a parking place reserved for
handicapped persons in violation of the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1303.3 shall be fined the sum of three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00). (Ord. 013-2011, 2-21-2011)
Sec. 9-48. Parking Unattended Trailers On Public Right Of Way Prohibited:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a trailer that is detached
from its towing vehicle within any alley, highway, street, right of way, or
public property located within the city.
   (b)   Every trailer parked in violation of this section is hereby declared
to be a nuisance which may be abated by any police officer or parking
enforcement attendant by removing and impounding such vehicle as described in
section 9-30 of this chapter.
   (c)   A trailer is excepted from this prohibition when it is actively
engaged in deliveries, lawn maintenance, construction or other trade activity
upon property immediately abutting the parked trailer. However, at all times,
the roadway shall be free for the passage of other vehicles, traffic control
signs and signals shall not be obstructed and sightlines for intersections
shall not be obstructed.
   (d)   The owner of any vehicle violating the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine of twenty dollars ($20.00). In the event that the
fine is not paid within seven (7) days of the date of the notice, the owner of
the vehicle shall pay as the penalty for and in full satisfaction of such
violation the sum of forty dollars ($40.00). (Ord. 35-00, § 1, 6-5-2000; Ord.
31-2002, § 1, 4-8-2002; Ord. 005-2010, § 8, 1-18-2010; Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-
2015)
Secs. 9-49 - 9-80. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. ZONE PARKING
Sec. 9-81. Definitions:
For the purpose of this division, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   Operator: Every person who shall operate, drive or be in control of any
vehicle upon any street.
   Park: The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon any street
for a period of time greater than is reasonably necessary for the loading or
unloading of persons or materials.
   Parking Lot: That area of city owned property located off street and
designated for the parking of motor vehicles.
   Permit: That authorization issued by the city to operators of vehicles
complying with the provisions of this division.
   Street: Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway or other public
place located in the city and established for the use of vehicles.
   Vehicle: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a street. A bicycle or motor bicycle shall be termed a
vehicle.
   Zone: Any area designated and marked for parking of a particular and
specific duration. (Ord. 86-70, § 1, 12-15-1986; Ord. 92-12, § 1, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-82. Zones Generally:
The city council shall establish parking zones upon such streets of the city as
it shall select. The council may add to, change or abandon such parking zones.
In selecting, changing or abandoning such parking zones, the council shall be
guided and governed by location, amount of traffic, demand for parking spaces,
congestion of traffic, use of the street, and other traffic conditions. (Ord.
86-70, § 1, 12-15-1986; Ord. 92-12, § 1, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-83. Parking Zones Established:
Thirty (30) minute, one hour, two (2) hour and four (4) hour parking zones
shall hereby be established and identified by the placement of appropriate
parking control signs within the zones. The establishment of such zones in no
way supersedes the existence of any previously established no parking zones,
loading zones, bus lanes or otherwise restricted parking zones. (Ord. 058-2015,
12-14-2015; Ord. 023-2016, 5-9-2016)
Sec. 9-84. Marking Spaces:
The city council shall have lines or markings painted or placed upon the curb
or street for the purpose of designating each parking space, and each vehicle
parked at any parking space shall park within the lines or markings so
established. It shall be a violation of this division for any person to park
any vehicle in such a position that the same will not be within the area so
designated by such lines or markings. (Ord. 86-70, § 1, 12-15-1986; Ord. 92-12,
§ 1, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-85. Location Of Vehicle:
When a parking space in any parking zone is parallel with the adjacent curb or
sidewalk, any vehicle parked in such parking space shall be parked with the
foremost part of such vehicle alongside of and as near as is practicable to the
front of the parking space. When a parking space in any parked zone is diagonal
to the curb or sidewalk, any vehicle parked in such parking space shall be
parked at and as near as possible to the curb. (Ord. 86-70, § 1, 12-15-1986;
Ord. 92-12, § 1, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-86. Parking Time Limit - Generally:
Upon entering any posted zone parking space, a vehicle may occupy such space
for a period of time not to exceed the posted time limit for the zone. (Ord.
86-70, § 1, 12-15-1986; Ord. 92-12, § 1, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-87. Parking Time Limit - Enforcement:
   (a)   All parking zones shall be enforced during the times posted in the
zone. The parking zones shall not be enforced on New Year's Day, Memorial Day,
Fourth Of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve Day
and Christmas Day.
   (b)   During these times, enforcement personnel will patrol designated
streets. Vehicles which have occupied any given parking space in excess of the
posted parking limitation shall be considered as parking overtime and beyond
the period of legal parking and shall be in violation of this division. (Ord.
86-70, § 1, 12-15-1986; Ord. 92-12, § 1, 1-20-1992; Ord. 92-112, § 4, 8-24-
1992)
Sec. 9-88. Overtime Parking, Penalties:
The city council shall hereby adopt the following progressive fine structure
for overtime parking violations:
      (1)   See section 10-107.11, "Schedule Of Penalties For Ordinance
Violations", of this code. (Ord. 013-2011, 2-21-2011; Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-
2015)
Sec. 9-89. Moving Of Vehicles Prohibited:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move any vehicle from any designated
zone parking space to any other such space for the purpose of extending the
legal parking limit beyond the posted time limit. Upon observance of or
detection of such offense in accordance with section 9-87 of this chapter, the
operator of the vehicle shall be issued a notice of violation and shall pay a
fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). In the event the fine is not paid within
seven (7) days of the date of notice, the operator shall pay as the penalty for
and in full satisfaction of such violation the sum of forty five dollars
($45.00). (Ord. 005-2010, § 10, 1-18-2010; Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-89.1. Reserved:
DIVISION 3. PERMIT AND FEE PARKING
Sec. 9-90. Definitions:
For the purpose of this division, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   Operator: Every person who shall operate, drive or be in control of any
vehicle upon any street.
   Park: The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon any street
for a period of time greater than is reasonably necessary for the loading or
unloading of persons or materials.
   Parking Lot: That area of city owned property located off street and
designated for the parking of motor vehicles.
   Permit: That authorization issued by the city to operators of vehicles
complying with the provisions of this division.
   Street: Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway or other public
place located in the city and established for the use of vehicles.
   Vehicle: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a street. A bicycle or motor bicycle shall be termed a
vehicle.
   Zone: Any area designated and marked for parking of a particular and
specific duration. (Ord. 86-70, § 1, 12-15-1986; Ord. 92-12, § 1, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-91. Designation Of City Parking Facilities:
The city council shall establish the following locations as parking facilities:
      (1)   Lot A, located south of 2nd Avenue between 16th Street and 16 1/
2 Street.
      (2)   Lot C, located at the southwest corner of the intersection of 1st
Avenue and 20th Street.
      (3)   Lot E, located at the northwest corner of the intersection of 18th
Street with 7th Avenue.
      (4)   Lot F, located at the northeast corner of the intersection of 18th
Street with the Great River Plaza.
      (5)   Lot G, located along the alley connecting 17th and 18th Streets
south of 1st Avenue.
      (6)   Municipal parking ramp, located between 16th and 17th Streets and
3rd and 4th Avenues. (Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-92. Permit System Established:
   (a)   The city council shall hereby establish a parking permit system by
which specific permits authorize parking in specific designated locations. A
permit shall be obtained from the finance department upon payment of the
appropriate fee. Permits shall be displayed on the front left side of the
vehicle's dashboard or displayed in a vinyl case and affixed to the lower left
corner of the rear window of the vehicle. The permit system shall be
established as follows:
      (1)   Construction permit authorizes the permit holder to park a
construction vehicle in any city owned parking lot, ramp, or on street parking
space for any length of time.
      (2)   Daily/visitor permit authorizes the permit holder to park in any
city owned parking lot, ramp, or on street parking space for one day only.
      (3)   Rover permit authorizes the permit holder to park in any city owned
parking lot, ramp or on street parking space for any length of time.
   (b)   Parking permits have the following exceptions:
      (1)   Permit holders may not park in any space designated for handicapped
parking unless displaying the proper identifying tags or license plates.
      (2)   Permit holders may not park in any marked loading zone, no parking
zone, bus lane or other restricted parking area. (Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-93. Permit Fees:
The city council does hereby establish the following fee schedule for parking
in the municipal parking facilities:
 
(1) Construction parking permits  $20.00 per month
(2) Daily/visitor parking permits 5.00   per day
(3) Rover parking permits         80.00  per month
 
(Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-94. Fees - Discounted; Parking Incentive Plan:
(Rep. by Ord. 14-2004, § 1, 2-2-2004)
Sec. 9-95. Display Of Permit Generally:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
Sec. 9-96. Penalties:
(Rep. by Ord. 058-2015, 12-14-2015)
DIVISION 4. RESIDENTIAL PARKING LIMITATIONS
Sec. 9-97. Designation Of Residential Parking Only Areas:
The city council may, after the presentation of a petition supporting a
residential parking only area signed by residents representing two-thirds (2/3)
of the dwelling units in the proposed area, designate those streets where
residential parking only shall be in effect at all times or during specified
hours. The traffic engineering committee shall notify all property owners
within the proposed area of the petition, committee recommendation, and pending
city council action. Residential parking only ordinance shall not be used to
restrict parking in that part of the city that is contained within the area
described in this ordinance.
Sec. 9-97.1. Minimum Size For Residential Permit Parking Area:
The minimum size for residential permit parking areas shall be the lesser of
ten (10) contiguous parcels of property or lots or one complete block unless
otherwise approved by the city council. (Ord. 92-78, 4-27-1992)
Sec. 9-98. Residential Parking Permit:
The city council may designate residential parking areas as either type A area
or a type B area.
      (1)   Type A Area: The resident or residents of a dwelling unit which
abuts or is adjacent to a designated residential parking only area may obtain
from the finance department of the city, by payment of a five dollar ($5.00)
fee, a parking permit for each owned, leased, rented or assigned vehicle. This
permit will allow parking adjacent to applicant's residence only without
restriction. These permits shall not be transferable to other vehicles. Each
resident issued a parking permit will also receive without additional fee two
(2) visitor parking permits which may be displayed only upon vehicles not
registered to residents of the dwelling and may be transferred between
vehicles. Visitor parking permits may be displayed only on vehicles used by
persons not at the home of the resident to whom the permit was issued, and
parking is limited to that area which abuts or is adjacent to the resident's
property only. In the event that a resident does not own any vehicles, two (2)
visitor permits may be obtained by payment of a five dollar ($5.00) fee.
      (2)   Type B Area: The resident or residents of a dwelling unit which
abuts or is adjacent to a designated residential parking only area may obtain
from the finance department of the city, by payment of a five dollar ($5.00)
fee, a parking permit for each owned, leased, rented or assigned vehicle. This
permit will allow parking without time restriction in any otherwise legal
parking space within the designated area. These permits shall not be
transferable to other vehicles. Each resident issued a parking permit will also
receive without additional fee two (2) visitor parking permits which may be
displayed only upon vehicles not registered to residents of the dwelling and
may be transferred between vehicles. Visitor parking permits may be displayed
only on vehicles used by persons not at the home of the resident to whom the
permit was issued. In the event that a resident does not own any vehicles, two
(2) visitor permits may be obtained by payment of a five dollar ($5.00) fee.
(Ord. 87-53, 5-18-1987; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992; Ord. 95-61, 8-28-1995)
Sec. 9-99. Permit Issued Annually:
Residential parking permits must be renewed annually by payment of a five
dollar ($5.00) fee and are applicable only to the designated street. (Ord. 87-
53, 5-18-1987; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992)
Sec. 9-100. Penalty For Unauthorized Use:
The penalty for unauthorized use of a permit shall be a fine of not more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 87-53, 5-18-1987; Ord. 92-12, 1-20-1992)
ARTICLE III. PEDESTRIANS 1
 
Notes
1 625 ILCS 5/11-208 and 5/11-1001 et seq.
Sec. 9-101. Ordinances Not Affected By Code:
Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance establishing pedestrian crossings, and all such ordinances are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length in this code. (1963 Code, Ch. XI, Art. XI)
Sec. 9-102. Adult Crossing Guards:
There are hereby created the positions of adult crossing guards, who shall
operate the traffic control at designated school crossings in the city. They
shall be supervised by a city employee or official designated by the city
manager to act in this capacity in addition to his present duties. These
persons shall be responsible for maintaining the traffic control at designated
crossings. They shall be responsible for the enforcement of the proper use of
school crossings, and this function shall be separate and distinct from the
police department. The persons working pursuant to this section, whether they
receive compensation or not, are not members of the police department but shall
work under the direction of the police department. (1963 Code, Ch. XI, Art. XI)
Sec. 9-103. Standing On Sidewalk:
It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as near
as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians. (1963 Code, ch.
XI, art. V)
Secs. 9-104-9-110. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. PARADES, RUNS, ETC., PERMIT
Sec. 9-111. Permit Required:
No person shall use the public streets in the city for runs, marches, parades
and air activities without having first obtained a permit from the city clerk.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be subject to a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 83-19, 6-13-1983)
Sec. 9-112. Application:
Any organization or individual desiring to sponsor an activity shall file an
application for a permit with the office of the city clerk on a form provided
by the clerk. (Ord. 83-19, 6-13-1983)
Sec. 9-113. Notice Requirement:
   (a)   Any application for a permit shall be filed with the city clerk at
least sixty (60) days prior to the scheduled event. This sixty (60) day period
or any portion thereof may be waived by the city council.
   (b)   In the case of applications for new events and/or new routes, the
sponsor of said new event shall notify the residents and/or businesses located
along said race route, parade route, or other, for that specific activity, in
writing, at least three (3) weeks prior to city council consideration. Prior to
council consideration, sponsor shall notify and obtain written approval or
disapproval from the residents and/or businesses and submit a copy of same to
the city clerk. Any resident and/or business who objects to said event shall
have the opportunity to be heard at the city council meeting during which time
the event is to be considered. (Ord. 095-2014, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 9-114. Liability Insurance:
No permit shall be issued until the sponsor of the scheduled event files with
the city clerk evidence of liability insurance coverage for the event in an
amount not less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for any one
person or five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for any one accident,
with the city being listed as an additional insured, claims or damages which
may arise out of the event. (Ord. 83-19, 6-13-1983)
Sec. 9-115. Review By Police; Issuance:
At such time as an application is filed, it shall be forwarded to the traffic
unit supervisor of the police department for review and estimation of service
costs excluding a public works service and police vehicles used but including
charges for auxiliary police and off duty police officers' time. In addition,
the traffic unit supervisor may contact the event sponsor regarding any
suggested changes in routing or any other suggested changes. After the review
as aforesaid, the application shall be returned to the city clerk, who shall
then contact the event sponsor regarding the estimated cost. If the cost figure
is acceptable to the sponsor, and the sponsor agrees to pay same, the
application and cost estimate shall be forwarded to the city manager for final
review and placement on the council agenda. If the city council approves the
event, the city clerk shall issue a permit allowing the event to take place.
After the event has taken place, the sponsor shall be billed for the actual
police and public works services rendered. (Ord. 83-19, 6-13-1983; Ord. 96-50,
7-22-1996)
Sec. 9-116. Reimbursement Of Excess Costs:
(Rep. by Ord. 96-50, 7-22-1996)
ARTICLE V. NEIGHBORHOOD NUISANCE VEHICLES
Sec. 9-117. Purpose:
The city of Rock Island is committed to maintaining the attractiveness,
aesthetics, and safety of all residential neighborhoods and promoting the
health and safety of its citizens. Pursuant to its home rule authority, the
city hereby declares vehicles stored, parked, housed, and repaired as defined
herein which are in violation of this article, to be public nuisances and the
city will abate these nuisances by towing or having the owner of the vehicle or
property abate the nuisance. Pursuant to that authority, the city council finds
that such regulations, restraint or prohibition is necessary and desirable to
promote or enhance the public good. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-118. Regulated:
Except as permitted by the zoning ordinances, no person shall park, store,
leave or permit the parking, storage or leaving of any vehicle of any kind
which is an abandoned vehicle on private property, abandoned vehicle on city
property, hazardous vehicle, vehicle having evidentiary value, inoperable motor
vehicle, or unregistered vehicle, whether upon public or private property
within the city except as authorized herein. The presence of such vehicle in
violation of the provisions hereof is hereby declared a public nuisance which
may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this article.
This section shall not apply to any vehicle enclosed within a building on
private property or to any vehicle stored on the premises of a business
enterprise actively operated on the subject premises and being properly
operated in the appropriate business zone pursuant to the zoning ordinance of
the city and engaged in such business enterprise as would properly be
associated with the storage of such vehicles. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000; Ord.
39-00, § 3, 6-26-2000; Ord. 78-2000, § 1, 10-9-2000)
Sec. 9-119. Definitions:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
   Abandoned Vehicle On City Property: One that is left on property owned or
operated by the city (except for a city street or alley) for longer than two
(2) hours or in a city owned parking lot for longer than twelve (12) hours,
without permission of the city.
   Abandoned Vehicle On Private Property: A vehicle parked or otherwise located
on private property that has not been moved for a period of seven (7) days.
   Abandoned Vehicle On Street Or Alley: An abandoned vehicle is one that is
abandoned on any highway, street or alley or other public right of way.
Continuous standing of a vehicle on a highway, street or alley or any public
right of way for over a seventy two (72) hour period shall be prima facie
evidence of abandonment of such vehicle.
   Administrative Hearing Officer: Defined and created pursuant to section
10-107 et seq., of this code.
   Hazardous Vehicle: Any motor vehicle on private or public property that is
declared to be a health or safety hazard by a duly authorized police officer,
community service officer, or city inspector, when the vehicle is found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes or other insects,
snakes, rats, or other pests; or
      (2)   A point of weed growth and/or other vegetation over ten inches
(10") in height; or
      (3)   A point of collection for pools or ponds of water; or
      (4)   A point of concentration of gasoline, oil or other flammable or
explosive materials; or
      (5)   So situated that there is a danger of the vehicle falling or
turning over; or
      (6)   A place in which debris, bottles or other solid waste is discarded
and is present within the vehicle or immediately next to or around the vehicle;
or
      (7)   A source of danger for children through entrapment in areas of
confinement that cannot be opened from the inside or from exposed surfaces of
metal, glass or other rigid materials.
   Inoperable Motor Vehicle: A vehicle from which the engine, wheels or other
essential parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other
parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own power for a period of at least seven
(7) days. Inoperable motor vehicle shall not include: 1) a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations, 2) any motor vehicle
that is kept concealed within a building when not in use, or 3) a motor vehicle
on the premises of a place of business engaged in repairing, wrecking or
junking of motor vehicles where properly zoned.
   Owner: An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental agency or any combination thereof, as evidenced by the title to
the vehicle. If no title to the vehicle is available, then the last record
owner as contained in the records of the secretary of state of the state in
which the vehicle was last titled shall be rebuttably presumed to be the
current owner.
   Seized Vehicle: Any vehicle which is seized as a result of an arrest,
pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1 et seq., recovery of a stolen
vehicle, or any other lawful seizure.
   Unregistered Vehicle: One that:
      (1)   Does not have an attached current registration (license plate)
valid in any state; or
      (2)   Does not have displayed a current temporary registration valid in
any state; or
      (3)   Has a registration (license plate) which is expired pursuant to the
laws of the issuing state.
   Vehicle: A machine propelled by power, other than human power, designed to
travel by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and to transport persons or
property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation, automobile,
truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, RV, SUV, snowmobile, personal
watercraft, conversion van, boat, camper, mobile home, pop-up camper, pickup
truck, and wagon.
   Vehicle Having Evidentiary Value: Any vehicle which is seized so it can be
searched for evidence of a crime (hit-and-run, blood, fingerprints, etc.).
(Ord. 34-00 § 1, 6-5-2000; Ord. 39-00, § 2, 6-26-2000)
Sec. 9-120. Authority To Abate The Nuisance By Towing:
The chief of police or his designee is hereby authorized to immediately tow
away, or cause to be towed away, any vehicle on any public street, public
place, or private property at any time:
      (1)   When the motor vehicle is a hazardous vehicle, or "abandoned
vehicle on city property", as defined herein;
      (2)   When the motor vehicle is an evidentiary vehicle;
      (3)   When the motor vehicle is a seized vehicle;
      (4)   When the vehicle is on private residential property and is parked
there without consent of the property owner, proprietor or agent of the
property, provided:
         a.   That signs approved by the city posted on the property give
notice that parking is prohibited, and
         b.   That the person requesting the tow signs a statement that he is
the owner, proprietor, or agent of the property with the authority to request
the tow. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-121. Pretow Notice Of Removal:
In all other instances of a violation of this article, the chief of police or
his designee is hereby authorized to tow away, or cause to be towed away, any
vehicle on any public street, public place, or private property at any time but
shall first give notice of removal to the registered owner of the vehicle, if
the owner can be ascertained and if the vehicle is located on private property,
to the owner or occupant of the private property where the vehicle is located
at least seven (7) days before the vehicle is removed.
      (1)   It shall constitute sufficient notice when a copy of the notice
outlined in the pretow notice of removal is posted upon the vehicle itself and
on a conspicuous place upon the private property on which the vehicle is
located; and
      (2)   A duplicate copy of the pretow notice of removal is sent by
registered mail to the registered owner of said vehicle if one can be
determined based on the information on the vehicle such as the registration
(license plate) or VIN number; and
      (3)   A duplicate copy of the pretow notice of removal is sent by
certified mail to the lien holder if one can be determined based on the
information on the vehicle such as the registration (license plate) or VIN
number.
The notice of removal shall identify the vehicle, the statutory grounds for
removal, the right of the vehicle owner to request a pretow hearing before the
administrative hearing officer to contest the grounds for removal prior to the
removal date, and the method of making such a request.
In the event that the vehicle owner requests a pretow hearing, the removal
shall be delayed until the next scheduled hearing date of the administrative
hearing officer, at which time the administrative hearing officer shall conduct
a hearing as hereinafter provided to determine whether grounds exist for
removal. If the administrative hearing officer finds that grounds exist for
removal, the vehicle may be immediately removed. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-122. Notice Of Hearing:
Whenever a vehicle is towed without pretow notice of removal, the police
department shall provide to the owner of record of the vehicle the notice
described in this section no later than twenty four (24) hours after the time
of the tow and any lien holder of record within seventy two (72) hours, except
that when a motor vehicle is towed after three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on a Friday,
Saturday, Sunday or holiday or the day before a holiday, the notice described
herein shall be provided no longer than the second working day after the tow.
Whenever a vehicle is towed after a pretow notice of removal has been given,
the notice described in this section shall be provided to the owner and any
lien holder of record within four (4) working days of the tow.
      (1)   Notice: The notice shall include:
         a.   Description of the motor vehicle including year, make, model,
registration (license plate number), expiration date, and vehicle
identification number (VIN);
         b.   The present location of the motor vehicle;
         c.   The basis for the removal of the vehicle;
         d.   The right of the owner to a hearing;
         e.   The consequences of the failure to request a hearing;
         f.   The consequences of the failure to reclaim a motor vehicle;
         g.   A deadline of seven (7) days from the date of notice, by which
the owner must respond.
      (2)   Delivery Of Notice: The notice required in subsection (1) of this
section shall, at the discretion of the police department, be given by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal delivery. The date of
personal delivery or the date of mailing of the certified letter shall be the
date of providing notice.
      (3)   Posting Of Notice: A notice containing the requirements set forth
for the notice, described in subsections (1)d through (1)g of this section,
shall be posted at the Rock Island police department and at all tow/impound
areas.
      (4)   Notices On Failure To Act:
         a.   Consequences Of Failure To Request A Hearing: If the registered
or legal owner, lien holder, or person who is otherwise entitled to possession
of a motor vehicle does not request a hearing within seven (7) days of the
delivery or mailing of notice, the right to such hearing shall be forfeited. A
registered or legal owner, lien holder, or person who is otherwise entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle must pay the total cost of the tow and any
storage incurred.
         b.   Consequences Of Failure To Reclaim A Motor Vehicle: If the
registered or legal owner, lien holder, or person who is otherwise entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle does not claim and take possession of said motor
vehicle within fifteen (15) days after the tow hearing, the motor vehicle shall
be considered abandoned and shall be disposed of pursuant to state statute.
(Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-123. Post-Tow Hearing:
A hearing shall be held after a vehicle is towed pursuant to this article, if
the owner requests a post-tow hearing to determine the validity of such tow and
any tow or storage charges.
      (1)   The administrative hearing officer shall conduct the post-tow
hearing. The hearing officer shall have the authority to require the presence
of the enforcement officer issuing the citation or any other city personnel or
witnesses at such hearing. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not
apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. The hearing
shall be open to the public and a court reporter shall transcribe the
proceedings.
      (2)   Hearings shall take place as follows:
         a.   In those instances where the vehicle has been released upon the
deposit of a cash bond in an amount equal to the tow and storage charge, the
hearing shall take place within forty five (45) days from the date of request
following the tow after the posting of cash bond.
         b.   In those instances where the vehicle remains impounded, the
hearing shall take place within twenty one (21) days from the date of request
immediately following the tow.
      (3)   The city must establish said authority by the preponderance of the
evidence and shall establish a prima facie case upon the showing of the
documents related to the tow.
      (4)   If the city's administrative hearing officer determines that there
is no such probable cause, the vehicle will be returned without penalty or
other fees.
      (5)   In the event the defendant wishes to appeal the decision of the
city's administrative hearing officer under the provisions of the
Administrative Review Act, said defendant shall pay the cost of the preparation
and transcription of the record of the hearing and shall appeal to the circuit
court.
      (6)   The penalty and fees shall be a debt due and owed to the city.
However, if a cash bond has been posted the bond shall be applied to the fine.
If the city's administrative hearing officer determines that the vehicle was
not in violation of this article the administrative hearing officer shall order
the return of the vehicle or cash bond. In the event it shall become necessary
for the city to collect the debt by filing an action in the circuit court, it
shall be entitled to recover, in addition to the amount due, court costs and
reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-124. Bonding Procedures:
Whenever the owner or person entitled to possession of a vehicle towed pursuant
to sections
9-120 and
9-121 of this article wishes to retrieve their vehicle prior to the post-tow
hearing, they may do so by posting a cash bond at police headquarters in an
amount twice the fees charged for towing and storage pursuant to the contract
for towing services with the city in effect at the time of the tow for a period
of thirty (30) days from the date of the tow. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-125. Responsibility For Costs Not Recovered:
Any costs incurred by the city for removal, impoundment or destruction of
vehicles under this article not otherwise recovered, shall be paid by the
registered owner, person legally entitled to possession, or lien holder of the
vehicle unless the administrative hearing officer determines that no violation
has occurred. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-126. Parking, Storing, Housing Of Vehicles:
It shall be a violation of this article for a property owner or renter to park,
store, or house upon their property vehicles that are: inoperable,
unregistered, abandoned vehicle on private property, or hazardous, as defined
herein, except a property owner or renter may park, store, or house upon their
property no more than one unregistered vehicle that does not fit into any of
the other categories defined herein unless the vehicle is enclosed in a
building and not visible by the public. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-127. Detrimental Health Nuisances Associated With Vehicle Repair In
Residentially Zoned Neighborhoods:
Whenever the pursuit of any vehicle repairs or the maintenance of any vehicle
results in the spilling of solvents, oil, gasoline, or other hazardous
substances on the ground (public or private property), or the condition of
things at a specific location where vehicle repairs are being conducted result
in a condition detrimental to the health of any person, the same shall be
deemed a health nuisance and shall be abated. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-2000)
Sec. 9-128. Enforcement:
A police officer, community service officer, or inspector, shall have the
authority to: 1) issue a parking ticket to the owner of a vehicle described
herein for violations of this article when the vehicle is parked on public or
city property, or 2) issue a city ordinance citation to the owner of a vehicle
described herein or to the property owner where the vehicle is located for
violations of this article when the vehicle is parked on private property.
However, the processing of all tows shall be handled through the abandoned
vehicle division of the Rock Island police department. (Ord. 34-00, § 1, 6-5-
2000; Ord. 068-2006, § 1, 9-11-2006)
Sec. 9-129. Penalty And Fines:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to a fine. Each act in violation of any of the
provisions hereof shall be deemed a separate offense.
A violation of abandoned vehicle on city property, abandoned vehicle on street
or alley, or hazardous vehicle when the vehicle is on public property shall be
charged by the issuance of a parking ticket, as with other parking violations.
The fine for violation of these articles shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
A violation of abandoned vehicle on private property or hazardous vehicle when
the vehicle is on private property shall be charged by the issuance of a city
ordinance citation, as with other motor vehicle violations. The first violation
of this article shall be a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). In
the event a person is accused of a first violation of this article and does not
wish to contest the allegation, then the person so accused can pay to the city
of Rock Island police headquarters a penalty sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) to be paid within seven (7) days of the first violation for and in
full satisfaction of the violation. The fine for any second and subsequent
violation of this article within two (2) years of the first violation shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
These fines shall be in addition to any towing and storage charges. (Ord. 34-
00, § 1, 6-5-2000; Ord. 068-2006, § 1, 9-11-2006)
ARTICLE VI. NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLES
Sec. 9-130. Purpose:
Whereas, the city council of Rock Island, after considering volume, speed and
character of traffic on streets within the city of Rock Island finds that
neighborhood vehicles as defined herein, may safely travel on and across the
streets within the city with the regulations set forth herein and that the
public safety will not be jeopardized by operation of said vehicles in
accordance with said regulations except on roadways prohibited by this article.
(Ord. 027-2008, § 1, 4-14-2008)
Sec. 9-131. Definitions:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
   Neighborhood Vehicle: A self-propelled, electrically powered four-wheeled
motor vehicle (or a self-propelled gasoline powered four-wheeled motor vehicle
with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters) which is capable of
attaining in one mile a speed of more than twenty (20) miles per hour, but not
more than twenty five (25) miles per hour, and which conforms to federal
regulations under title 49 CFR part 571.500. (Ord. 027-2008, § 1, 4-14-2008)
Sec. 9-132. Prohibited Roadways:
   (a)   General Authorization: Except as expressly prohibited in this section
it shall be lawful for any person who holds a valid driver's license issued in
this or any other state to operate a neighborhood vehicle on any street within
the city. (Ord. 027-2008, § 1, 4-14-2008)
Sec. 9-133. General Limitations:
   (a)   No person shall operate a neighborhood vehicle on any street having a
posted speed limit of thirty five (35) miles per hour or greater, provided that
nothing herein shall prohibit a person from driving a neighborhood vehicle
across a street with a posted speed limit of thirty five (35) miles per hour or
greater.
   (b)   All persons operating neighborhood vehicles shall comply with the
applicable requirements of section 11-1426.1 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., hereinafter referred to as the
Illinois vehicle code.
   (c)   No neighborhood vehicle may be operated on a street unless, at a
minimum it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview
mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a "slow
moving" emblem (as required of other vehicles in section 12-709 of the Illinois
vehicle code) on the rear of the neighborhood vehicle, a headlight that emits a
white light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from the rear, brake
light, and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, a neighborhood vehicle
shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by section 12-201
of the Illinois vehicle code.
   (d)   A person who drives or is in physical control of a neighborhood
vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to sections 11-500
through 11-502 of the Illinois vehicle code.
   (e)   No neighborhood vehicle shall be left on the roadway in such a way
that it disrupts the normal flow of traffic. All costs related to the removal
of any neighborhood vehicle shall be the responsibility of the owner. (Ord.
027-2008, § 1, 4-14-2008)
Chapter 10
OFFENSES-MISCELLANEOUS 1
 
Notes
  Annotations-The city may regulate the permitting of steam to be released from
  railroad locomotive engines. Chicago, R.I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Steckman, 125 Ill.
  App. 299; affirmed, 224 Ill. 500, 79 N.E. 602 (1906).
  A railroad speed limit ordinance is applicable to the case of a railroad
1 employee injured while at his employment on a railroad right of way. Potter
  v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 208 Ill. App. 363 (1917).
  Where a railroad train was running at a greater rate of speed than the
  maximum permitted by ordinance, a prima facie case of negligence was
  established against the railroad company. Edwall v. Chicago, R.I. & P. Ry.
  Co., 208 Ill. App. 489 (1917).
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 10-1. Misdemeanor Defined Generally 1 ; Penalty:
Except as otherwise provided in this Article, each of the sections in this
Article shall be deemed to state a misdemeanor or misdemeanors, which, if
severally or jointly committed by any person or persons within the territorial
jurisdiction of the City, shall subject the offender or offenders, severally to
a penalty of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. The court, in lieu of imposing any
fine provided in this Article, may, in its discretion, impose a sentence of
community service. (1963 Code, Ch. XII, Art. I; Ord. 99-11, § 1, 2-22-1999)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 5/2-11, 730 ILCS 5/5-1-14.
Sec. 10-2. Swimming In River-Prohibited:
No person shall swim or bathe in the Mississippi River where posted 1
 
Notes
  See also
1 Chapter 14
   of this Code.
Sec. 10-3. Swimming In River-Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of Section
10-2 of this Article shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation of Section
10-2 of this Article and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to
the City, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord.
83-57, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 10-4. Indecent Exposure; Lewd Exhibitions-Prohibited:
No person shall appear in any public place within the City in a state of nudity
or in any indecent or lewd dress, or make any indecent exposure of his or her
person, or be guilty of any indecent or lewd act or behavior, or exhibit or
perform, or in any way cause to be exhibited or performed, any play, show or
representation of any sort that would be deemed to be obscene under 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20. (1963 Code, Ch. XII, Art. I)
Sec. 10-5. Indecent Exposure; Lewd Exhibitions-Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of Section
10-4 of this Article shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event
a person is accused of a violation of Section
10-4 of this Article and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to
the City, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., 1-12-
1981; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-136, 12-9-1991)
Sec. 10-6. Obscenity 1 :
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit obscenity within the
City. A person commits obscenity when, with knowledge of the nature of contents
thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would
disclose the nature of contents thereof:
      (1)   He or she sells within the City any obscene book, magazine,
pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film, video recording,
filmstrip or slide.
      (2)   He or she offers or attempts to sell within the City any obscene
book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film,
video recording, filmstrip or slide.
      (3)   He or she distributes or gives away within the City any obscene
book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film,
video recording, filmstrip or slide.
      (4)   He or she offers to or attempts to give away within the City any
obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture
film, video recording, filmstrip or slide.
      (5)   He or she prints or publishes within the city any obscene book,
magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film, video
recording, filmstrip or slide.
      (6)   He or she exhibits or shows within the City any obscene photograph,
drawing, motion picture, video recording, filmstrip or slide.
      (7)   He or she produces, directs, or plays a part within the City in any
obscene play.
      (8)   He or she advertises for sale within the City any obscene book,
magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, drawing, motion picture film, video
recording, phonograph record, filmstrip or slide.
      (9)   He or she advertises for viewing within the City any obscene motion
picture, video recording, play, filmstrip or slide.
      (10)   He or she publicly performs an obscene act or otherwise publicly
presents an obscene exhibition of his or her body within the City.
      (11)   He or she buys or procures in the City for resale in the City any
obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, photograph, motion picture film, video
recording, filmstrip, slide or phonograph record.
      (12)   He or she buys, leases, or procures in the City for showing in the
City, for gain, any obscene motion picture, video recording, filmstrip or
slide.
   (b)   As used in this Section material is "obscene" when:
      (1)   It depicts or describes any of the following types of sexual
conduct:
         a.   Ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including intercourse, oral copulation, sodomy;
         b.   Masturbation;
         c.   Excretory functions; or
         d.   Exhibition of the human genitals; and
      (2)   To the average person, applying contemporary community standards,
the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to the prurient
interest in sex; and
      (3)   The material is patently offensive because it affronts contemporary
community standards in its description or representation of the sexual conduct;
and
      (4)   The material taken as a whole lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
   (c)   Any person who commits obscenity or any act thereof as defined herein
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) 1 . (1963 Code,
Ch. XII, Art. I; Ord. 83-62, 2-20-1984)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
1 Cable television franchise holder not to broadcast X-rated material, App. C,
  Art. I, § 9(k).
Sec. 10-7. Forfeiture Of Licenses Upon Conviction Of Certain Violations:
In case of the conviction of any person for a violation of any of the
provisions of sections 10-4, 10-6 and 10-63 of this chapter, such person shall,
in addition to the penalty prescribed for such violation, incur a forfeiture of
any city license that he may hold. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I)
Sec. 10-8. Cruelty To Animals Generally 1 :
No person shall overload, overdrive, overwork, cruelly beat, torture, torment,
mutilate or cruelly kill any animal or cause or knowingly allow the same to be
done. No person shall cruelly work or cruelly abandon any old, maimed, infirm,
sick or disabled animal, or cause or knowingly allow the same to be done, or
unnecessarily fail to provide any animal in his charge or custody, as owner or
otherwise, with proper food, drink or shelter. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I)
 
Notes
1 510 ILCS 70/1 et seq.
Sec. 10-9. Firearms; Explosives; Slingshot; Fireworks; Bow And Arrow; Air Gun:
   (a)   Prohibited: No person shall, in any part of the city, fire or
discharge any cannon, gun, pistol or other firearm, or set off, fire or explode
any torpedo, firecracker, fireball, rocket or other fireworks whatsoever 1 .
However, the discharge of firearms by the members of any military organization
when on parade and in accordance with the command of the commanding officer, or
by any city officer or other person in the discharge of any legal duty or
necessary and lawful act done in a proper and careful manner, shall not be
deemed a violation hereof 2 . No person shall in any part of the city possess
any torpedo, firecracker, fireball, rocket or other fireworks whatsoever.
Fireworks as defined in the fireworks regulation act, 425 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 30/2.
   (b)   Air Guns And Toy Guns: It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge on the streets, avenues, alleys or other public grounds any air gun
or toy gun from which is sent a lead or metal missile.
   (c)   Slingshots; Bow And Arrow; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any
person to shoot a slingshot or bow and arrow within the corporate limits of the
city. However, archery may be practiced if done in a safe place and under the
competent supervision of an adult. The prohibition against shooting a bow and
arrow within the city limits shall not apply to the hunting of deer with a bow
and arrow in accordance with subsection (d) of this section.
   (d)   Archery Deer Hunting: A person may discharge a long, recurve, compound
bow, or crossbow as permitted by the Illinois department of natural resources
regulations and the laws of the state of Illinois, within the corporate limits
of the city during the course of harvesting deer if the following requirements
are met:
      (1)   The person must possess a valid deer archery permit issued by the
state of Illinois and must comply with all of the conditions of the permit and
all applicable laws and regulations of the Illinois department of natural
resources relating to archery deer hunting.
      (2)   The person must possess a deer hunting permit issued by the city.
The cost for this permit shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). The application
procedure necessary for obtaining a permit shall be according to the city of
Rock Island deer management rules and restrictions for deer hunting in
subsection (f) of this section.
      (3)   The number of locations or "sites" for deer hunting to be permitted
shall be set by the city council on an annual basis. There shall be fourteen
(14) permitted "sites" with no more than eight (8) "sites" located on private
property. The size of each "site" whether on public or private property, must
have a minimum of three (3) contiguous acres. City staff shall identify and
approve all "sites".
      (4)   Each hunter shall be authorized to hunt from an approved "stand"
located on the permitted hunting "sites". Each "stand" located on an approved
"site" shall have a minimum platform height of six feet (6'). No person shall
knowingly direct an arrow across the boundary of or off the designated "site".
Only one hunter per "stand" at any one time will be allowed. If multiple
"stands" are to be located on a "site", each "stand" shall have a density of no
less than five (5) acres.
      (5)   Locating appropriate hunting "sites" will be the responsibility of
the hunter. The hunter shall provide "site" information to the chief of police
who will forward it to the community and economic development department who
will determine if the "site" information complies with this section and the
rules and procedures for deer hunting in subsection (f) of this section. The
"site" information submitted by the hunter shall include a description and
address of the proposed hunting "site".
      (6)   Hunting will only be allowed on those specific days designated as
deer bow season by the Illinois department of natural resources and the city of
Rock Island, Illinois.
      (7)   The total number of deer to be harvested as well as the number of
male and female deer allowed to be harvested per hunter shall be set by rule in
subsection (f) of this section.
      (8)   The manner for removal of a harvested deer shall be set by rule in
subsection (f)(1)b of this section.
This subsection (d) shall only be in force for the bow and arrow deer hunting
seasons as approved by city council.
   (e)   Penalty: The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this
section shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of this section and does not wish to contest said allegation prior to
the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused
may pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
   (f)   Deer Management Rules And Restrictions: The city of Rock Island
permits an archery hunting program for deer in an effort to better control the
deer population within the boundaries of the city, contingent, however, upon
annual council review. The intent is to give control of hunting to the property
owners, yet enable archery hunters to harvest the deer for their use or to
provide meat for social agencies.
Hunting sites will be selected based on criteria including deer concentration,
safety, and overall impact. There are stipulations required of hunters in an
effort to make the program as safe as possible, yet achieve the goal of
thinning the number of deer within the city limits.
      (1)   Hunters:
         a.   Obtaining A Permit: Hunters must obtain a permit in order to
participate in the Rock Island deer management program. In order to obtain a
permit, hunters will need to provide the following:
            1.   Written permission from the property owner of the site they
desire to hunt.
            2.   Hunters are encouraged to obtain permission from adjacent and
abutting property owners, these properties will be considered part of the
hunting site.
            3.   Proficiency certification from an approved provider.
            4.   Copy of Illinois hunting license.
            5.   Completed Rock Island deer management application form.
         b.   Hunting Rules And Regulations:
            1.   Hunters must adhere to all state of Illinois and department of
natural resources guidelines, rules, and restrictions.
            2.   Hunters must obtain appropriate state permits and tags.
            3.   Hunters must have a valid city of Rock Island permit.
            4.   Hunters will harvest at least two (2) does before harvesting a
buck.
            5.   All deer harvested as part of the deer management program must
be checked in at the two (2) identified fire stations (entire deer).
            6.   All remains must be removed from the hunting site.
            7.   Hunters will obtain permission from property owners before
tracking or retrieving a deer that travels out of the approved hunting area.
Illinois is not a right to retrieve state.
      (2)   Hunting Sites: Sites will be approved by the city based upon
criteria including deer concentration, safety, and overall impact.
         a.   Restrictions And Requirements:
            1.   Consist of no less than three (3) contiguous acres.
            2.   One hundred (100) yards from a school, park, or church, unless
approved.
            3.   Situated in a manner that all shots are taken at a downward
angle.
            4.   Shots must not be taken in a way they may carry into an open
or occupied area.
            5.   Only one hunter active per site at any time.
            6.   Certain sites may have a time restriction when hunting is
allowed.
            7.   All sites will be signed with signage obtained from the Rock
Island police department. This signage will be placed in a manner that is
visible to neighboring and abutting property owners when hunters are active.
            8.   Hunters cannot use nails, screws or other hardware to affix
stands. Only straps or other noninjuring attachment may be used in trees.
         b.   Multiple Hunters:
            1.   Additional hunters may be allowed when using a separate stand
at a density of no less than one hunter per five (5) acres.
            2.   Property owners may coordinate with multiple hunters to
utilize a site, but only one hunter may actively use a stand at any one time.
      (3)   Property Owners:
         a.   Property owners reserve the right to deny hunting on their
property.
         b.   Property owners wishing to hunt or allow hunting on their
property must submit their site for approval to the deer management program
manager.
         c.   The city will notify property owners that are adjacent and
abutting an approved hunting site in advance via letter.
         d.   Property owners with objections or concerns regarding hunting in
their vicinity should state their concern in writing or contact the deer
management program manager.
      (4)   Public Lands: Hunters who are unable to locate a suitable site
within Rock Island are eligible to hunt on selected public lands such as golf
courses or other specifically identified areas. The hunters will follow all of
the requirements identified for hunting on private land. In addition, the
following procedures will be used to determine who will hunt on those lands.
Larger private properties such as cemeteries may follow a similar process.
         a.   Hunting stand areas will be identified by the "controlling
agency", a department, board, or designated individual.
         b.   Hunter will enter their name into a lottery for a chance of being
awarded permission to place a hunting stand on designated areas.
         c.   Names will be selected through a drawing with each of the names
noted in order.
         d.   Hunters who are awarded an area, must obtain their city of Rock
Island permit before any hunting takes place.
         e.   If a hunter exhausts their supply of deer tags and the season is
still open, they are to notify the controlling agency. The controlling agency
is then responsible for contacting the next eligible hunter.
         f.   The hunter will notify the controlling agency in advance when
they plan to be active. This may be done in person or through a mutually agreed
upon process.
      (5)   Unpermitted Hunting:
         a.   Any hunting which takes place without appropriate permits will be
considered poaching and treated as such.
         b.   Any hunting on property which is not approved by the city will be
considered poaching and treated as such.
         c.   Hunting on property without the property owners explicit
permission is impermissible.
         d.   Any violation of the deer management program rules and guidelines
will result in the permanent revocation of city hunting privileges and subject
the hunter to a possible fine for violating the enabling ordinance.
   (g)   Southwest Area Hunting Exemption: Recognizing that the Southwest Area
of the City has a unique collection of natural settings and a rural character,
the City Council may designate parcels in said Area as exempt from municipal
hunting restrictions under the following rules and conditions.
      (1)   An exemption may be granted only to parcels south of the Rock
River, or on islands located within said river, that are ten (10) acres in size
or larger. An exemption shall not be granted for properties north of said river
or which are smaller than ten (10) acres under any circumstances.
      (2)   An exemption shall allow the property owner to hunt any wild game
on said property using any means sanctioned by the Illinois Department of
Natural Resources provided that such hunting is undertaken in full compliance
with all the regulations of said Department and State law applicable to either
private or public lands.
      (3)   In addition to said regulations of said Department, the property
owner shall be required to maintain a distance of three hundred yards (300 yd),
or nine hundred feet (900'), from property lines, roadways, railways, and
inhabited dwellings while actively engaged in hunting activities. Permanent
signs shall also be placed at every entrance to the subject property and along
the boundary of said property at intervals of one hundred yards (100 yd), or
three hundred feet (300'), clearly identifying that hunting is taking place on
the property. Said signs shall be subject to the approval of both the City and
said Department.
      (4)   For the purposes of this exemption, "hunting" shall be considered
an "activity" as opposed to a "use" as understood by the Zoning Code and
therefore shall not be regulated by said Code.
      (5)   The process for granting an exemption shall be as follows.
         a.   A property owner with a qualifying property shall submit an
application to the City Clerk's Office requesting an exemption. Said
application shall include, but not be limited to, proof of ownership, a
complete legal description, and a plat of survey.
         b.   The Clerk shall send notices of the application to all municipal
property owners within two hundred and fifty feet (250') of the subject
property, as measured from its periphery, informing them of the application and
requesting that they respond in favor or in opposition to the hunting exemption
being requested. The notice shall also inform adjacent municipal property
owners when a public hearing as described below shall take place. "Municipal
property owner" shall mean property owners whose properties are within the
municipal boundary. The Clerk shall also submit a public notice for inclusion
in a local newspaper in general circulation that shall be published no less
than two (2) weeks prior to the time of the public hearing.
         c.   The Clerk shall notify the Police Department of the application
and request that they provide comments and recommendations regarding the
request.
         d.   The Clerk, having received responses from adjacent municipal
property owners and the Police Department, shall prepare a report for the City
Council. The report shall make a recommendation to approve or deny the request
based on the standards set forth in this subsection. Any additional recommended
conditions shall also be included.
         e.   Within sixty (60) days of the application being received, the
City Council shall hold a public hearing regarding the application. Citizens
shall be allowed to speak both in favor and in opposition to the request.
Citizens who file an interested party form shall also be allowed to cross
examine the applicant asking them to provide additional information and answer
any and all pertinent questions.
         f.   Following the close of the public hearing, the Council shall
deliberate on whether to grant the exemption informed both by the public
hearing and the report submitted by the City Clerk's Office.
         g.   The Council may impose any additional conditions they deem
appropriate or as recommended by the City Clerk and Police Department.
Conditions shall not in any way be in conflict with the regulations of the
Illinois Department of Natural Resources or State law.
         h.   Approval of the exemption shall require a simple majority vote of
the entire Council and adoption of an ordinance. The City Clerk's Office shall
have the ordinance recorded with the County Recorder's Office upon passage.
Said ordinance shall describe any and all additional conditions imposed by the
Council. The exemption shall remain in place for the subject property
regardless of changing ownership unless rescinded by majority vote of the
Council as described below. The exemption shall not be automatically rescinded
in the event that the zoning of the subject property is changed or development
of the property takes place. In the event that two adjacent properties have
separate exemptions, are combined, and their exemptions have different
conditions, the more restrictive conditions shall apply to the combined
property. The Council may be asked to make an interpretation of the conditions
if the owner of the subject property disagrees with the City Clerk as to what
the "more restrictive conditions" of the combined exemptions are.
      (6)   An exemption may be rescinded if the subject property is subdivided
or combined with another property that does not have an exemption of its own.
The process for rescinding an exemption shall be as follows.
         a.   In the event a property with a hunting exemption is subdivided or
combined with another property that does not have an exemption of its own, the
City Clerk shall send a notice to the owner of the subject property informing
them that the exemption shall be invalidated unless they apply for the
exemption to be reinstated for the subject property as it is now constituted.
The property owner shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the Clerk's
notice to submit a new application. If an application is not received, the
exemption shall be automatically rescinded and a second notice sent to the
property owner informing them of the fact. The Council shall thereafter adopt
an ordinance formally rescinding the exemption which shall then be recorded
with the County Recorder's Office upon passage by the Clerk.
         b.   If a new application is received, the Clerk shall follow the same
approval process required for a first-time application.
      (7)   An exemption may be rescinded following petition from an adjacent
property owner under limited circumstances. An adjacent property owner may
petition the Council to rescind the exemption if they propose to build a new
dwelling within two hundred and fifty feet (250') of the subject property, as
measured from its periphery. An adjacent property owner may also petition the
Council to rescind the exemption if they propose to subdivide their property.
The property to be subdivided must be within two hundred and fifty feet (250')
of the subject property, as measured from its periphery. The petition in this
case must be submitted with a plat of survey completed by a licensed land
surveyor detailing the proposed subdivision. The proposed subdivision must be
in compliance with the City's subdivision code.
         a.   In the event a petition in either of the above circumstances is
submitted, the City Clerk shall send a notice to the owner of the subject
property informing them that a petition to rescind their exemption has been
received and that the Council shall hold a public hearing to consider whether
or not to approve the petition thus rescinding their exemption.
         b.   The Clerk shall send notices of the petition to all municipal
property owners within two hundred and fifty feet (250') of the subject
property, as measured from its periphery. The notice shall also inform adjacent
municipal property owners when a public hearing as described below shall take
place. The Clerk shall also submit a public notice for inclusion in a local
newspaper in general circulation that shall be published no less than two (2)
weeks prior to the time of the public hearing.
         c.   The Clerk shall notify the Police Department of the petition and
request that they provide comments and recommendations regarding the petition.
         d.   The Clerk shall prepare a report for the City Council. The report
shall make a recommendation to approve or deny the petition based on the
standards set forth in this subsection.
      e.   Within sixty (60) days of the petition being received, the City
Council shall hold a public hearing regarding the petition. Citizens shall be
allowed to speak both in favor and in opposition to the petition. Citizens who
file an interested    party form shall also be allowed to cross examine the
property owner with the exemption or the petitioner asking them to provide
additional information and answer any and all pertinent questions.
         f.   Following the close of the public hearing, the Council shall
deliberate on whether to approve the petition informed both by the public
hearing and the report submitted by the City Clerk's Office.
         g.   The Council may deny the petition, but impose additional
conditions to the exemption they deem appropriate or as recommended by the City
Clerk and Police Department.
         h.   Approval of the petition or modification of the exemption shall
require a simple majority vote of the entire Council and adoption of an
ordinance. The City Clerk's Office shall have an ordinance recorded with the
County Recorder's Office upon passage.
      (8)   An exemption may be rescinded by the Council if the owner of the
subject property is found to be in violation of any of the rules and conditions
of this subsection.
         a.   In the event that a violation is alleged to have occurred, the
City Clerk shall send a notice to the owner of the subject property informing
them of the allegation and request that they remedy said violation within
thirty (30) days providing proof of having done so. If the Clerk determines
that the violation has not been remedied, the Clerk shall send a second notice
informing the subject property owner that the Council shall hold a public
hearing to consider whether or not to rescind their exemption.
         b.   The Clerk shall send notices of the public hearing to all
municipal property owners within two hundred and fifty feet (250') of the
subject property, as measured from its periphery, informing them about when it
shall take place. The Clerk shall also submit a public notice for inclusion in
a local newspaper in general circulation that shall be published no less than
two (2) weeks prior to the time of the public hearing.
         c.   The Clerk shall notify the Police Department of the public
hearing and request that they provide comments and recommendations.
         d.   The Clerk shall prepare a report for the City Council. The report
shall detail the alleged violation and how it is a violation based on the rules
and conditions set forth in this subsection. The report may recommend that the
exemption be rescinded or that additional conditions be imposed.
         e.   Within sixty (60) days of the date of the Clerk's second notice
to the subject property owner, the City Council shall hold a public hearing
regarding the petition. Citizens shall be allowed to speak both in favor and in
opposition to the exemption being rescinded. Citizens who file an interested
party form shall also be allowed to cross examine the property owner asking
them to provide additional information and answer any and all pertinent
questions.
         f.   Following the close of the public hearing, the Council shall
deliberate on whether to rescind the exemption informed both by the public
hearing and the report submitted by the City Clerk's Office.
         g.   The Council may choose not to rescind the exemption, but impose
additional conditions to the exemption they deem appropriate or as recommended
by the City Clerk and Police Department.
         h.   Approval of the petition or modification of the exemption shall
require a simple majority vote of the Council and adoption of an ordinance. The
City Clerk's Office shall have an ordinance recorded with the County Recorder's
Office upon passage.
      (9)   There shall be no limit on the number of properties within the
Southwest Area that may be granted a hunting exemption. (1963 Code, ch. XII,
art. I; Ord., 12-21-1970; Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord., 1-11-1982; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-
1984; Ord. 91-136, 12-9-1991; Ord. 94-106, 12-12-1994; Ord. 062-2013, 11-18-
2013; Ord. 016-2014, 3-17-2014; Ord. 022-2015, 4-20-2015; Ord. 052-2021, 9-14-
2021)
 
Notes
1 See also § 6-44 of this code.
2 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.
Sec. 10-10. Obstruction Of Roadways:
   (a)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway and hinder the passage of vehicles or
obstruct the passage or business of any person.
   (b)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a roadway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or the shoulder facing traffic that may approach from the opposite
direction and shall not hinder the passage of vehicles or obstruct the passage
or business of any person.
   (c)   No person shall hinder the passage of vehicles or obstruct the passage
or business of any person in any public street or sidewalk in the city, by
flying kites, throwing stones, throwing snowballs, using skateboards, using in-
line skates, playing ball or in any other manner. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I;
Ord. 97-51, 7-14-1997)
Sec. 10-11. Obstruction Of Roadways - Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-10 of this
chapter shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of section 10-10 of this chapter and does not wish to contest the
allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, the
person so accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters a penalty in the
sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for and in full satisfaction of the
violation. (Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-136, 12-9-1991; Ord.
97-51, 7-14-1997)
Sec. 10-12. Getting On Or Holding Onto Vehicles - Prohibited:
No person shall, within the limits of the city, seize, hang upon, get upon,
hold, tie or fasten to any railroad car, engine, motor vehicle, carriage,
buggy, wagon, sleigh, sled or other vehicle or conveyance while the same is in
motion or attempt so to do, or attach to any such vehicle or conveyance any
sleigh or sled, and ride thereon, unless he shall be acting in compliance with
law and his duty in so doing. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I)
Sec. 10-13. Getting On Or Holding Onto Vehicles - Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-12 of this
chapter shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of section 10-12 of this chapter and does not wish to contest the
allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, the
person so accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the
sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
(Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 10-14. Coasting On Streets - Prohibited:
No person shall coast or slide on any of the streets or sidewalks of the city,
except as designated by the mayor and council. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I)
Sec. 10-15. Coasting On Streets - Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-14 of this
chapter shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of section 10-14 of this chapter and does not wish to contest the
allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, the
person so accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the
sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
(Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 10-16. Excavations, Openings, Etc. - Safety:
No person shall leave open, uncovered, unguarded or in an unsafe condition any
cellar door, hatchway, pit, vault or excavation upon or adjoining any sidewalk,
street, alley or public place of the city. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I)
Sec. 10-17. Excavations, Openings, Etc. - Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-16 of this
chapter shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of section 10-16 of this chapter and does not wish to contest the
allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, the
person so accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the
sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
(Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 10-18. Abandoned Or Unattended Refrigerators 1 Or Airtight Containers-
Generally:
No person shall leave or permit to remain outside any dwelling, building or
structure or within any unoccupied dwelling, building or structure under his
control in a place accessible to children, any abandoned or unattended icebox,
refrigerator or other container of sufficient size to admit a small child,
which has an airtight closing door, snaplock or other locking device, without
first removing the airtight closing door, snaplock or other locking device from
the abandoned icebox, refrigerator or airtight container. (1963 Code, ch. XII,
art. I)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 505/1.
Sec. 10-19. Abandoned Or Unattended Refrigerators Or Airtight Containers-
Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-18 of this
article shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation of section
10-18 of this article and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to
the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord.
83-57, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 10-20. Assault; Battery 1 :
   (a)   No person shall commit an assault or battery. A person commits an
assault when, without lawful authority, he engages in conduct which places
another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. A person commits
battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal justification and by any
means: 1) causes bodily harm to an individual, or 2) makes physical contact of
an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
   (b)   The minimum fine for committing the violation of assault shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a violation as
aforesaid and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a
complaint is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to the
city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
and in full satisfaction of the violation.
   (c)   The minimum fine for committing the violation of battery shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation as aforesaid and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may
pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (1963
Code, ch. XII, art. I,; Ord., § 2, 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 5/12-1 et seq.
Sec. 10-21. Disturbing The Peace:
No person shall create, maintain, assist or participate in the creation of a
loud or raucous noise, or loud or raucous talking, or loud or raucous singing
on the public streets at any time or place so as likely to disturb the public
peace or quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling,
hotel, or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
No person shall allow or cause to be used or operated any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound, on any residential property in such a manner
as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at
any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the
person who is in the residence in which such machine or device is operated and
who is a voluntary listener thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument,
phonograph, loudspeaker, machine or device between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at a distance of ten feet (10') from the property on which it is
located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
No person shall create, maintain, assist or participate in the creation of a
loud or raucous noise, or loud or raucous talking, shouting, or loud or raucous
singing on any residential property in such a manner as to disturb the peace,
quiet and comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling,
hotel, or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
Exemption: Persons who have obtained a sound amplification permit shall be
exempt during the duration of the permit. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I; Ord. 90-
55, § 1, 8-13-1990; Ord. 50-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-21.1. Public Urination And Defecation Prohibited:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on any street,
alley, sidewalk, parkway, public parking lot, or other public place other than
in a facility designed for that purpose. (Ord. 52-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-22. Penalty For Sections 10-21 And 10-21.1:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of sections
10-21 and
10-21.1 of this article shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person
is accused of a violation of section
10-21 and/or
10-21.1 of this article and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to
the time a complaint is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay
to the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 1, 1-11-1982;
Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984; Ord. 53-2004, § 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-23. Loitering:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to loiter or congregate about
or upon any public building or public property, any stairway, doorway, window
or in front of any business or dwelling house, theater, church or street corner
or elsewhere, and by so doing obstruct or interfere with the free passage of
persons entering or occupying such building or premises, or by language,
conversation or conduct to annoy, insult or disturb persons passing along the
streets or alleys or occupying, residing in or doing business in any of such
houses or places. The fine for violating this section will be from fifty
dollars ($50.00) up to five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 060-2011, 8-8-
2011)
Sec. 10-23.1. Loitering For Drug Activities:
   (a)   Acts Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to loiter in, on or
near any thoroughfare or place open to the public or near any public or private
place in manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of engaging in
drug related activity defined as offenses in the Illinois controlled substances
act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570.
   (b)   Circumstances: Among circumstances that may be considered in
determining whether such purpose is manifested are that the person:
      (1)   Is a known drug user, possessor, or seller. For purpose of this
chapter, a "known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller" is a person who
has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court
within this state or any other state of any violation involving the use,
possession or sale of any of the substances referred to in the Illinois
controlled substances act, or such person has been convicted of any violation
of any of the provisions of those sections or substantially similar laws of any
political subdivision of this state or of any state; or a person who displays
physical characteristics of drug intoxication or usage, such as "needle
tracks"; or a person who possesses drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   Is currently subject to an order prohibiting his or her presence in
a high drug activity geographic area.
      (3)   Behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable suspicion that he
or she is about to engage in or is then engaged in an unlawful drug related
activity, including, by way of example only, acting as a "lookout".
      (4)   Is physically identified by the officer as a member of a "gang" or
association which has as its purpose illegal drug activity.
      (5)   Transfers small objects or packages for currency in a furtive
fashion.
      (6)   Tries to conceal himself or herself or any object which reasonably
could be involved in an unlawful drug related activity.
      (7)   Is in an area that is known for unlawful drug use and trafficking.
      (8)   Is on or in premises that have been reported to law enforcement as
a place suspected of unlawful drug activity.
      (9)   Is in, or within six feet (6') of, any vehicles registered to a
known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller, or a person for whom there is
an outstanding warrant for a crime involving drug related activity.
   (c)   Enforcement: Enforcement of this section shall be by an officer of the
Rock Island police department and the Quad City metropolitan enforcement group.
(Ord. 93-27, § 1, 4-12-1993)
Sec. 10-24. Noisy Animals-Generally 2 :
No person shall, in the city, keep any dog, whelp, bitch, calf, hog or any
other animal which, by barking, howling or other noises, shall disturb the
peace and quiet of the neighborhood. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I)
 
Notes
2 See §
  7-111 et seq., animals, of this code.
Sec. 10-25. Noisy Animals-Generally-Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section
10-24 of this article shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation of section
10-24 of this article and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to
the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 1, 1-12-1981;
Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 10-26. Disorderly Conduct 3 :
   (a)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace.
      (2)   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that
such fire exists.
      (3)   Transmits in any manner, to another, a false alarm to the effect
that a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such bomb
or explosive is concealed in such place.
      (4)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds
for believing that such an offense has been committed.
      (5)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
      (6)   Conducts himself or herself in a disorderly manner, makes, aids,
countenances or assists in making any improper noise, riot or disturbance in
the city or congregates with others in any of the streets, alleys or public
places of the city for unlawful purposes, or for a lawful purpose in a riotous
or tumultuous manner, to the annoyance of the citizens or travelers therein, or
aids or abets the same.
      (7)   Delivers any public speech or holds any public meeting or gathering
or gatherings on any streets or avenues within the city without first obtaining
from the city council a permit. If the city council shall grant a permit, then
the permit shall designate upon which street or avenue any such meeting or
gathering may be held or conducted. An application to the city council for the
place at which the meeting or gathering is to be held or conducted shall be
filed with the city clerk not less than twenty four (24) hours before the time
of the meeting or gathering.
      (8)   Makes any kind of false alarm not described above by outcry, bell,
other sounding instrument or other means for disturbing the peace of the city.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of subsections (a)
(1), (a)(6) 4 and (a)(7) of this section shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In
the event a person is accused of a violation of those subsections and does not
wish to contest the allegations prior to the time a complaint is issued for the
violation, then the person so accused may pay to the city at police
headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for and in full
satisfaction of the violation.
   (c)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of subsections (a)
(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of this section shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00). In the event a person is accused of a violation of those subsections
and does not wish to contest the allegations prior to the time a complaint is
issued for the violation, then the person so accused may pay to the city at
police headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
and in full satisfaction of the violation. (1963 Code, Ch. XII, Art. I; Ord., §
1, 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991)
 
Notes
3 720 ILCS 5/26-1 - 26-4.
  Section 1 of Ord. 91-136, in regards to § 10-26(a)(6), stated: "The penalty
4 provision is increased from $100.00 to $150.00." Even though the provisions
  of this subsection (b) specified a $50.00 penalty for (a)(6) rather than
  $100.00, the new penalty of $150.00 would seem to be in effect.
Sec. 10-27. Disturbing School Or Assembly:
   (a)   No person shall willfully interrupt or disturb any school or any
congregation or assembly meeting for religious worship, or for any other lawful
purpose, by making unnecessary noise or by rude or indecent behavior, or by
profane discourse within such meeting, or so near the same as to disturb the
order or solemnity of such meeting.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of this section and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to
the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused
may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
(Code 1963, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 24; Ord. of 1-12-81, § 3; Ord. of 1-11-82, § 3;
Ord. No. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-84; Ord. No. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-91)
Editor's note--At the discretion of the editor, the provisions of § 1 of Ord.
No. 83-57, adopted Feb. 6, 1984, have been treated as amendatory of § 10-27(b).
Ord. No. 83-57 was not specifically amendatory of this Code.
Sec. 10-28. Time of closing for places of amusement--Generally.
No person shall, by himself, his agent or servant, keep open or permit or
suffer any person to remain at any public place of amusement kept or owned by
him at a later hour than 2:00 a.m., except as otherwise provided in this Code.
The mayor may, in his discretion, upon proper application to him in writing,
grant a special written permit to keep the same open to some hour that shall be
specified therein, such permit to be good for one (1) night only, such permit
and application to be filed with the city clerk before taking advantage of the
provisions thereof.
(Code 1963, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 26)
Cross reference--Amusements, licenses, §
8-81 et seq.
Sec. 10-29. Same--Penalty.
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section
10-28 shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event a person is accused
of a violation of section
10-28 and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint
is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to the city, at
police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
and in full satisfaction of the violation.
(Ord. of 1-12-81, § 3; Ord. No. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-84)
Editor's note--At the discretion of the editor, the provisions of § 1 of Ord.
No. 83-57, adopted Feb. 6, 1984, have been treated as amendatory of § 10-29.
Ord. No. 83-57 was not specifically amendatory of this Code.
Sec. 10-30. Concealed weapons--Prohibited.
No person shall within the limits of the city carry or wear under his clothes,
or concealed about his person, any pistol, revolver, bowie knife, dirk or other
deadly weapon, nor shall he in a threatening or boisterous manner display or
flourish any deadly weapon. This shall not apply to police officers when on
duty. Any such weapon worn, carried or displayed by any person in violation of
this section shall be kept and retained by the chief of police pending final
adjudication of the violation.
(Code 1963, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 28)
Sec. 10-31. Same--Penalty.
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section
10-30 shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation of section
10-30 and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint
is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to the city, at
police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
(Ord. of 1-12-81, § 3; Ord. No. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-84; Ord. No. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-
91)
Editor's note--At the discretion of the editor, the provisions of § 1 of Ord.
No. 83-57, adopted Feb. 6, 1984, have been treated as amendatory of § 10-31.
Ord. No. 83-57 was not specifically amendatory of this Code.
Sec. 10-32. Resisting or obstructing a police officer; aiding in arrest;
impersonation of officer.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the performance of any
police officer or member of the police department nor shall in any way
interfere with or hinder or prevent him from discharging any authorized act
within his official capacity. No person shall interfere with the mayor, the
chief of police, any police officer or any person authorized and required to
enforce the laws of the city, nor prevent, hinder or delay such person in the
execution of the duties required of him by any of the ordinances of the city or
laws of the state.
   (b)   A peace officer making a lawful arrest may command the aid of persons
over the age of eighteen (18). A person commanded to aid a peace officer shall
have the same authority to arrest as that peace officer. No person shall
neglect or refuse to give such aid or assistance when commanded to do so.
   (c)   No person shall falsely represent himself to be a member of the police
department of this city or shall, maliciously or with the intent to deceive,
use or imitate any of the signs, signals or devices adopted and used by any
such person.
   (d)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of subsection (a)
shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event a person is accused
of a violation of subsection (a) and does not wish to contest the allegation
prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so
accused may pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
   (e)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of subsection (b)
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00), and for subsection (c), one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00). In the event a person is accused of a violation of
subsection (b) or (c) and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may
pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars
($50.00) or one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for and in full satisfaction of
the violation.
(Code 1963, Ch. VII, Art. I, § 4 and Ch. XII, Art. I, § 29; Ord. of 1-12-81, §
1; Ord. of 1-11-82, § 1; Ord. No. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-84; Ord. No. 91-136, § 1, 12-
9-91)
Editor's note--At the discretion of the editor, the provisions of § 1 of Ord.
No. 83-57, adopted Feb. 6, 1984, have been treated as amendatory of § 10-32
subsections (d) and (e). Ord. No. 83-57 was not specifically amendatory of this
Code.
Cross reference--Police, ch. 12.
State law references--Assisting police officer, 725 ILCS 5/107-8; resisting or
obstructing public officers, 725 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.; false personation of
public officer or employee, 725 ILCS 5/32-5; refusing to aid a peace officer,
725 ILCS 5/31-8.
Sec. 10-33. Destruction or injury of property--Prohibited.
   (a)   Generally. No person shall willfully or maliciously destroy, injure,
deface or interfere with any bridge, engine house or other public building,
fire engine, fire hose or other property of the city, or any public property or
public work.
   (b)   Tampering With Telephones. It shall be unlawful for any person to
insert, or to attempt to insert into the coin box or money receptacle of any
telephone any slug, button or other substance or to manipulate or operate, or
to attempt to manipulate or operate, in any manner whatever any telephone
instrument or any mechanism or device connected or commonly used therewith,
with the intent to obtain telephone service without paying therefor. It shall
be unlawful for any person to inset, or attempt to insert, into the coin box or
money receptacle of any telephone, any slug, button, wire, hook or other
implement or substance with the intent to obtain from such coin box or money
receptacle a legal tender coin of the United States.
(Code 1963, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 30)
State law reference--Obtaining telecommunication services with intent to
defraud, 720 ILCS 365/1.
Sec. 10-34. Same--Penalty.
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section
10-33 shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is accused
of a violation of section
10-33 and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint
is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to the city, at
police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for
and in full satisfaction of the violation.
(Ord. of 1-12-81, § 6; Ord. No. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-84)
Editor's note--At the discretion of the editor, the provisions of § 1 of Ord.
No. 83-57, adopted Feb. 6, 1984, have been treated as amendatory of § 10-34.
Ord. No. 83-57 was not specifically amendatory of this Code.
Sec. 10-35. Excavation in street.
No person shall within the limits of this city dig or make any ditch, drain or
other excavation, or remove any sod, earth, sand, gravel or stone in, upon or
from any street, avenue, alley or public grounds within this city, except when
in possession of a permit from proper city authority.
(Code 1963, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 31)
Cross reference - Excavations in street generally, § 13-71 et seq.
Sec. 10-36. Breaking Into, Opening, Etc., Sewers 1
No person shall break or make any opening in or in any manner injure or
interfere with any of the main drains or sewers of the city, or connect any
drain, sewer or pipe therewith, without permission from the director of public
works or his designated representative. (1963 Code, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 32; Ord.
87-22, § 26, 3-23-1987)
 
Notes
  See
1 chapter 16
  , article III, "Sewers", of this code.
Sec. 10-37. Injury To Trees, Fences, Fixtures, Etc.-Prohibited:
No person shall within the limits of the city wilfully or carelessly destroy or
injure any tree, shrub, fence, railing, lamppost, electric light post or wire,
or in any manner cause the same to be done, or hitch or fasten any horse or
other animal to or so near any tree, shrub, fence, railing, lamppost, electric
light post or wire as to render the same liable to destruction or injury by
such horse or other animal. (1963 Code, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 33)
Sec. 10-38. Injury To Trees, Fences, Fixtures, Etc.-Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-37 of this
article shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation of section 10-37 of this chapter and does not wish to
contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the
violation, the person so accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a
penalty in the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for and in full
satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 6, 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-
1984)
Sec. 10-39. Depositing Rubbish In Streets; Burning Rubbish, Leaves, Etc., In
Streets-Prohibited  1  :
   (a)   No person shall place, deposit or throw, or cause to be placed,
deposited or thrown on any street, alley or public place in the city any
leaves, yard waste, ashes, paper, rags, sticks, blocks, posts, boards, lumber
or building material of any kind or any shavings, dirt, tin cans, junk or other
rubbish of any kind or description; and no rubbish of any kind shall hereafter
be burned anywhere within the city of Rock Island, Illinois. No box, barrel or
other receptacle for dirt, ashes, paper or other rubbish shall be placed or
allowed to remain in or upon any street or upon any sidewalk in the city, or
upon any public grounds or upon any part thereof.
   (b)   Any duly appointed and authorized firefighter for the city of Rock
Island or any subdivision thereof, or any peace officer for the city of Rock
Island shall have the authority to sign all notices of violation and charge any
violations of this section. (1963 Code, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 34; Ord. 87-48, § 1,
5-18-1987; Ord. 082-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008; Ord. 043-2009, § 1, 6-15-2009)
 
Notes
1 See chapter 13, article II, "Solid Waste", of this code.
Sec. 10-40. Depositing Rubbish In Streets; Burning Rubbish, Leaves, Etc., In
Streets-Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-39 of this
chapter, other than for the offenses of burning leaves or yard waste, shall be
seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is accused of a violation
of section 10-39 of this chapter and does not wish to contest the allegation
prior to the time a complaint is issued for the violation, the person so
accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
(Ord., § 5, 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991;
Ord. 043-2009, § 2, 6-15-2009)
Sec. 10-40.1. Leaf Burning Prohibited:
   (a)   The burning of leaves or yard waste is prohibited in the city of Rock
Island, Illinois.
   (b)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a notice of violation, which shall be paid at the police department in the
amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) if paid within seven (7) days of the
date issued. If said amount is not paid within seven (7) days, the fine amount
shall be forty dollars ($40.00). Any subsequent violation of this section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (c)   Any duly appointed and authorized firefighter for the city of Rock
Island or any subdivision thereof, or any peace officer, shall have authority
to sign all notices of violation and charge any violations of this section.
(Ord. 84-77, §§ 1, 2, 3-12-1984; Ord. 87-48, § 2, 5-18-1987; Ord. 83-2003, § 1,
9-15-2003; Ord. 90-2003, §§ 1, 2, 11-10-2003; Ord. 083-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 10-40.2. When Open Burning Permitted:
   It is permissible to burn vegetation and trees in the City for purposes of
preparing a property for commercial, residential development, or for the
general maintenance of natural native prairie grass plots. An Open Burning
Permit shall be obtained from the Illinois EPA. An approved Illinois EPA permit
shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal for review and the site shall be
inspected for hazards and any conflicts local ordinances prior to burning. The
Fire Marshal reserves the right to approve or deny any open burning in the City
of Rock Island. (Ord. 024-2005, § 1, 4-4-2005; amd. Ord. 04-2024, 1-22-2024)
Sec. 10-40.3. Recreational Fires:
   Recreational Fires shall be permitted in the City of Rock Island, Illinois.
Recreational Fires
shall be performed in accordance with all adopted requirements as set forth in
the 2015 International Fire Code Section 307.
   Recreational Fires shall be permitted between the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. The Fire Chief, or his designee, shall
reserve the right to place into effect a "Burn Ban", at his sole discretion,
prohibiting all outdoor burning, for any specified amount of time when
environmental conditions or other conditions are present which would otherwise
create an increased hazard from burning.
   The Fire Department shall reserve the right to order the extinguishment of
any recreational fire, at any time, at the sole discretion of any fire officer
or acting fire officer, when an unsafe condition or nuisance condition is
identified by the Fire Department. This order of extinguishment shall remain in
effect for twenty four (24) hours after each occurrence.
   Recreational Fires shall be no larger than three feet (3') in diameter and
two feet (2') high. Recreational fires shall contain only split firewood or cut
branches greater than a one inch (1") in diameter. Brush, leaves, and yard
waste shall be prohibited in a recreational fire and shall be subject to fine
in accordance with Sec.
10-40.1. Construction materials and other wood products shall be prohibited in
a recreational fire. (Ord. 04-2024, 1-22-2024)
Sec. 10-41. Littering Streets; Billposting:
   (a)   All contractors, truckers, teamsters and all persons hauling dirt,
sand, gravel, ashes, rubbish, leaves or yard waste or other material on streets
or alleys shall so construct, keep and maintain their trucks or wagon boxes,
dumps and sideboards with front and rear ends and bottoms at all times as to
prevent the spilling of such material from the same; and in case the same fall
into the streets or the same are scattered in any street or avenue, they shall
cause the same to be forthwith removed.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place upon the surface
of any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks of this city any glass, earthenware,
metal, stones or other articles or substances likely to cause injury to
travelers or pedestrians or to automobiles or bicycles used on the streets.
   (c)   No person shall post, paste or in any other way attach or affix to any
telephone or electric light pole within the city any bill, notice, announcement
or other advertising medium. (1963 Code, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 35; Ord. 084-2008,
§ 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 10-42. Rubbish Not To Be Placed In Gutters:
No person shall sweep rubbish, leaves, yard waste or debris from sidewalks into
street gutters or place litter of any sort on streets or in gutters. (1963
Code, Ch. XII, Art. I, § 36; Ord. 085-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 10-43. Unlawful Use Of Mailbox:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed in any
private mailbox used by the letter carriers of the city as a receptacle in
which to deposit United States mail, any circular, letter, note or other
advertising matter whatsoever unless the same bears United States postage or
has been regularly consigned through the United States mail. (1963 Code, Ch.
XII, Art. I, § 37)
Sec. 10-44. Trimming Of Trees On Streets:
It shall be necessary for every person having in charge any tree upon any
street or avenue in the city or any tree which extends over on any street or
avenue, to remove all branches which are less than twelve feet (12') from the
ground. All trees shall be trimmed so as not to obscure or obstruct the city
lights along the streets and avenues of the city. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I,
§ 39)
Sec. 10-45. Smoking Carelessly; Notice To Be Posted In Hotels, Etc.-Generally:
   (a)   Any person who by smoking or attempting to light or to smoke
cigarettes, cigars, pipes or tobacco in any manner in which lighters or matches
are employed who in a careless, reckless or negligent manner, whether wilfully
or wantonly or not, shall set fire to any bedding, furniture, curtains, drapes
or any household fittings, in any sleeping room, lodging house or room of any
hotel, rooming house or other place of public abode, or any apartment house or
other type of multiple dwelling, so as to endanger life or property in any way
or to any extent, shall be guilty of violating this section.
   (b)   In each sleeping room of all hotels, rooming houses, lodging houses
and other places of public abode, a plainly printed notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place advising tenants of the provisions of this section. (1963
Code, ch. XII, art. I, § 41)
Sec. 10-46. Smoking Carelessly; Notice To Be Posted In Hotels, Etc.-Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-45 of this
chapter shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation of section 10-45 of this article and does not wish to
contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the
violation, the person so accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a
penalty in the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for and in full
satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., 1-11-1982; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 10-47. Destruction Of Or Injury To Street Signs-Prohibited:
No person shall wilfully or maliciously destroy, deface or interfere with any
street sign belonging to the city. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I)
Sec. 10-48. Destruction Of Or Injury To Street Signs - Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-47 of this
chapter shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation of said section 10-47 of this chapter and does not wish
to contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the
violation, the person so accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a
penalty in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for and in full
satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-
136, 12-9-1991)
Sec. 10-49. Steel Jaw Animal Traps 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to rig, set or maintain any steel jaw leg
hold trap. Snare or box type traps or other animal traps that could cause
cruelty to animals within the city are prohibited; however, boxed traps may be
used by licensed humane organizations or individuals that have obtained written
approval from the police department, and with this permission, may be used for
the capture of stray or nuisance domesticated animals or wild animals. (Ord.,
1-7-1980)
 
Notes
1 520 ILCS 5/2.33 et seq.
Sec. 10-50. Barbed Wire And Electric Fences:
No person shall install or permit to be installed any barbed wire fences or
electrically charged and regulated fences within the corporate limits of the
city except as provided in this section. Barbed wire fences shall be allowed in
residentially zoned areas in the city where livestock is allowed to be kept
under the provisions of the city ordinances, and barbed wire installations
shall also be allowed on top of security fences which are at least six feet
(6') in height. Low voltage (not to exceed 24 volts), low amperage electric
fences are allowed in posted fenced in areas in residential areas after the
issuance of a permit by the chief building inspector for said fence based on
his inspection of the proposed improvement. Any permitted electrified fence
shall be tagged with a sign large enough to warn persons that such fence is
electrified. (Ord., 11-3-1975; Ord. 91-61, 5-13-1991; Ord. 96-22, 4-8-1996)
Sec. 10-51. Possession Of Alcoholic Liquors On Public Right Of Way -
Prohibited:
No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor in or
upon or about his possession on any street, alley or public right of way,
except in the original package, with the seal unbroken. Provisions of this
section shall not apply to any area where the consumption of alcoholic liquors
is permitted by action of the city council. (Ord., 5-8-1967; Ord., 5-19-1980)
Sec. 10-52. Possession Of Alcoholic Liquors On Public Right Of Way - Penalty:
The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of section 10-51 of this
chapter shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation of said section 10-51 of this chapter and does not wish
to contest the allegations prior to the time a complaint is issued for the
violation, the person so accused may pay to the city, at police headquarters, a
penalty in the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for and in full
satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., 1-11-1982; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-
136, 12-9-1991)
Sec. 10-53. Presence In City Parking Building And Parking Lot C:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be on the premises of the city parking
building located between Third Avenue and Fourth Avenue and Seventeenth Street
and Sixteenth Street in the city, and parking lot C located between First
Avenue and Second Avenue and Nineteenth Street and Twentieth Street in the
city, unless the person is there for the purpose of parking his motor vehicle
thereon or going to or from said motor vehicle located thereon. However, the
provisions of this section shall not apply to employees or agents of the city
who are on the premises in the scope of their employment or with the
authorization of the city. The fine for violating this section will be from
fifty dollars ($50.00) up to five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 060-2011, 8-
8-2011)
Sec. 10-54. Retail Theft Under One Hundred Fifty Dollars 2 :
   (a)   A person commits the offense of retail theft when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be
carried away or transferred any merchandise valued at less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such merchandise or
with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use
or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail value of such
merchandise;
      (2)   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise valued at less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), displayed,
held, stored, or offered for sale in a retail mercantile establishment and
attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in consort with another at
less than the full retail value with the intention of depriving the merchant of
the full retail value of such merchandise;
      (3)   Transfers any merchandise valued at less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment from the container in or on which such merchandise is
displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving the merchant
of the full retail value of such merchandise;
      (4)   Under rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the
full retail value of merchandise valued at less than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00); or
      (5)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of this section and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to
the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused
may pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., 1-12-
1981; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-48, 4-5-1991)
 
Notes
2 720 ILCS 5/16A-3.
Sec. 10-55. Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Property 3 :
   (a)   A person who obtains control over lost or mislaid property commits
theft when he:
      (1)   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows, or is aware of,
or learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner; and
      (2)   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
owner; and
      (3)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of this section and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to
the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused
may pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 5, 1-
12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984)
 
Notes
3 720 ILCS 5/16-2.
Sec. 10-56. Criminal Damage To Property Less Than Three Hundred Dollars 1 :
   (a)   Any person committing any of the following acts is in violation of
this section when the damage to property is less than three hundred dollars
($300.00). The person:
      (1)   Knowingly damages any property of another without that person's
consent;
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damages the property of
another;
      (3)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without that
person's consent;
      (4)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another,
without that person's consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling
compound and thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land
or building; or
      (5)   Knowingly damages the property of another without that person's
consent by defacing, deforming or otherwise damaging such property by the use
of paint or any other similar substance.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of this section and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to
the time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused
may pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 6, 1-
12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 5/21-1.
Sec. 10-57. Criminal Trespass To Land 1 :
   (a)   No person shall enter upon the land or any part thereof of another,
after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or
occupant that such entry is forbidden, nor shall he remain upon the land of
another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart.
   (b)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of subsection (a) of this section if he has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such
land or the forbidden part thereof.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly and without authority enter any structure or
any part thereof, whether occupied or not, of another without that person's
consent.
   (d)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a
complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may pay to
the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of seventy five dollars
($75.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 1, 1-17-1977;
Ord., § 7, 1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-133, § 1, 12-7-1991;
Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 5/21-3.
Sec. 10-57.1. Criminal Trespass To Gaming Facility:
   (a)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall enter upon any
premises used for gaming licensed to the casino Rock Island by the Illinois
state gaming board unless authorized by the Illinois gaming board and the
casino Rock Island.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event a person is accused
of a first violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may
pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation.
Complaints under this section may be brought in circuit court or in front of
the administrative hearing officer. (Ord. 85-00, § 1, 11-20-2000)
Sec. 10-58. Criminal Trespass To Vehicles:
   (a)   No person shall knowingly and without authority enter any vehicle,
aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another without that person's
consent.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a
complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may pay to
the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of seventy five dollars
($75.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 8, 1-12-1982;
Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984)
Sec. 10-59. Curfew Hours For Minors:
   (a)   Definitions: Whenever used in this section:
   Curfew Hours:
      (1)   Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day; and
      (2)   Twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on any Friday or Saturday and until
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day.
   Emergency: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   Establishment: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   Guardian:
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   Minor: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   Operator: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   Parent: A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      (2)   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   Public Place: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   Remain: To:
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   Serious Bodily Injury: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (b)   Offenses:
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew
hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (c)   Defenses:
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (b) of this section
that the minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         b.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         c.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         d.   Involved in an emergency;
         e.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         f.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         g.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under
emancipation of mature minors act, as amended.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (b)(3) of this
section that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the police department that a minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (d)   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
subsection (c) of this section is present.
   (e)   Penalties: The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this
section shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may
pay to the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 9, 1-
12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984; Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991; Ord. 51-2004,
§ 1, 5-3-2004)
Sec. 10-60. Possession Of Less Than Two And One-Half Grams Of Cannabis 2 :
   (a)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person knowingly to
possess two and one-half grams (2.5 g) or less of any substance containing
cannabis.
   (b)   "Cannabis" includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   (c)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In the event a person is accused
of a violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a
complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may pay to
the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 10,
1-12-1981; Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984; Ord. 17-2004, § 1, 2-2-2004)
 
Notes
2 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
Sec. 10-60.1. Possession Of More Than 2.5 Grams But Not More Than 10 Grams Of
Cannabis:
   (a)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to knowingly
possess more than 2.5 grams but not more than ten grams (10 g) of any substance
containing cannabis.
   (b)   "Cannabis" includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   (c)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a
complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may pay to
the city, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of three hundred dollars
($300.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord. 029-2014, 3-24-
2014)
Sec. 10-60.2. Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia:
   (a)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to knowingly
possess an item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the
human body, or in preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use.
   (b)   In determining intent under subsection (a) of this section, the trier
of fact may take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled
substance to the drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled
substance on the drug paraphernalia.
   (c)   Drug paraphernalia shall be those items as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 600/2.
   (d)   Exempt items shall be those as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 600/4.
   (e)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a
complaint is issued for the violation, the person so accused may pay to the
city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord. 029-2014, 3-24-
2014)
Sec. 10-61. Prostitution 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act of prostitution. Any
person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any of the following acts for
money commits an act of prostitution:
      (1)   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
      (2)   Any act of deviate sexual conduct. (Ord., § 1, 1-11-1982; Ord. 91-
136, § 1, 12-9-1991)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 5/11-14.
Sec. 10-61.1. Solicitation Of A Sexual Act:
Any person who offers a person not his or her spouse any money, property,
token, object or article or anything of value to perform any act of sexual
penetration as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-12 or any
touching or fondling of the sex organs of one person by another person for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification, commits the offense of solicitation
of a sexual act. (Ord. 99-95, § 1, 11-15-1999)
Sec. 10-62. Soliciting For A Prostitute 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit for a prostitute. Any person who
performs any of the following acts commits soliciting for a prostitute:
      (1)   Soliciting another for the purpose of prostitution;
      (2)   Arranging or offering to arrange a meeting of persons for the
purpose of prostitution; or
      (3)   Directing another to a place, knowing such direction is for the
purpose of prostitution. (Ord., § 1, 1-11-1982; Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 5/11-15.
Sec. 10-63. Keeping A Place Of Prostitution 2 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a place of prostitution. Any person
who has or exercises control over the use of any place which could offer
seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution who performs any of the
following acts keeps a place of prostitution:
      (1)   Knowingly granting or permitting the use of such place for the
purpose of prostitution;
      (2)   Granting or permitting the use of such place under circumstances
from which he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for
purposes of prostitution; or
      (3)   Permitting the continued use of a place after becoming aware of
facts or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is
being used for purposes of prostitution. (1963 Code, ch. XII, art. I; Ord., §
1, 1-11-1982; Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991)
 
Notes
2 720 ILCS 5/11-17.
Sec. 10-64. Patronizing A Prostitute 3 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to patronize a prostitute. Any person who
performs any of the following acts with a person not his or her spouse commits
the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
      (1)   Engaging in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct
with a prostitute; or
      (2)   Entering or remaining in a place of prostitution with intent to
engage in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct. (Ord., § 1,
1-11-1982; Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991)
 
Notes
3 720 ILCS 5/11-18.
Sec. 10-65. Pimping 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to receive money or other property from a
prostitute, not for a lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or
in part from the practice of prostitution. (Ord., § 1, 1-11-1982; Ord. 91-136,
§ 1, 12-9-1991)
 
Notes
1 1720 ILCS 5/11-19.
Sec. 10-66. Public Indecency Generally 2 :
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person of the age of seventeen (17) years
and upwards to perform an act of public indecency. Any person of the age of
seventeen (17) years and upwards who performs any of the following acts in a
public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual intercourse;
      (2)   An act of deviate sexual conduct;
      (3)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person; or
      (4)   A lewd fondling or caress of the body of another person of either
sex.
   (b)   "Public place" for purposes of this section means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1963 Code, ch. XII,
art. I; Ord., § 1, 1-11-1982; Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991)
 
Notes
2 720 ILCS 5/11-9.
Sec. 10-67. Theft Of Property Generally 3 :
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a theft of property. A
person commits theft when he knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner
valued at less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00);
      (2)   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner valued at
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00);
      (3)   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner valued at
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00); or
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property having a value of less than
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) knowing the property to have been stolen by
another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to believe
that the property was stolen; and
intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the property;
knowingly uses, conceals or deprives the owner permanently of such use or
benefit; or uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation, and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a
complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may pay the
city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord., § 2, 1-11-1982;
Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984)
 
Notes
3 720 ILCS 5/16-1.
Sec. 10-68. Trespass To Restricted Area 1 :
   (a)   A person commits the offense of trespass to a restricted area whenever
he or she enters upon or remains in any restricted area that would be
designated by the police department or used in connection with a police
investigation and after such person has received notice from police authority
that such entry is forbidden. Notice that the area is restricted and entry
thereto forbidden for purposes of this section means that the person has been
notified personally, either orally or in writing, or by a printed or written
notice forbidding such entry to him or her or a group or organization of which
he or she is a member and which has been conspicuously posted.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the time a
complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may pay to
the city at police headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00)
for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord. 82-04, § 1, 4-26-1982;
Ord. 83-57, § 1, 2-6-1984)
 
Notes
1 720 ILCS 5/21-7.
Sec. 10-69. Police Dogs:
It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully or maliciously to torture,
torment, beat, kick, strike, mutilate, injure, disable or kill any canine used
by the police department of the city in the performance of the functions of
such department, or to interfere with or meddle with any such canine being used
by the department or any officer or member thereof in the performance of any of
the functions or duties of the department or of such member or officer. Any
person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord., § 1, 8-11-1980; Ord. 91-136, § 1, 12-9-1991)
Sec. 10-70. Driver and Passenger Required to Use Safety Belts, Exception and
Penalty:
   (a)   Each driver and passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a street or
highway within this city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat
safety belt. Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a passenger who is
unable, due to infirmity, illness, or age, to properly adjust and fasten a seat
safety belt and is not exempted from wearing a seat safety belt under
subsection (b) of this section shall secure the passenger in a properly
adjusted and fastened seat safety belt as required under this section.
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to any of the
following:
      (1)   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle
or delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between
stops does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour;
      (2)   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt;
      (3)   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical, or other valid
reasons to wear a seat safety belt;
      (4)   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse;
      (5)   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965;
      (6)   A motorcycle or motor driven cycle;
      (7)   A moped;
      (8)   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law;
      (9)   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States postal service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier;
      (10)   A driver or passenger of an authorized emergency vehicle; or
      (11)   A back seat passenger of a taxicab.
   (c)   Failure to wear a seat safety belt in violation of this section shall
be considered evidence of negligence, shall not limit the liability of an
insurer, and shall not diminish any recovery for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, or operation of a motor vehicle.
   (d)   A violation of this section shall be a petty offense and subject to a
fine not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00). In the event a person is
accused of a violation and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to the
time a complaint is issued for the violation, then the person so accused may
pay to the city a penalty in the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for and in
full satisfaction of the violation.
   (e)   A law enforcement officer may not search or inspect a motor vehicle,
its contents, the driver, or a passenger solely because of a violation of this
section. (Ord. 029-2014, 3-24-2014)
Secs. 10-71-10-85. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. TAMPERING WITH PROPERTY GENERALLY
Sec. 10-86. Definitions 2 :
For the purposes of this article:
   Legal Guardian: Shall include a person appointed guardian, or given custody,
of a minor by the circuit court of this state, but does not include a person
appointed guardian, or given custody of a minor under the Illinois juvenile
court act.
   Minor: Shall include a person who has attained thirteen (13) years of age
but who has not yet reached eighteen (18) years of age.
   Property: Shall include any real estate, including improvements thereon, and
tangible personal property. (Ord., § 1, 2-21-1977)
 
Notes
2 705 ILCS 80/0.01 et seq.
Sec. 10-87. Penalty:
Every person found guilty of an offense under this article shall be subject to
the following penalties:
      (1)   A fine not in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00); or
      (2)   A period of conditional discharge not to exceed one year.
         a.   Conditions: The conditions of conditional discharge shall include
that the defendant:
            1.   Not violate any criminal statute or quasi-criminal ordinance
of any jurisdiction.
            2.   Report to and appear in person before such person or agency as
directed by the court.
         b.   Additional Requirements: The conditions of conditional discharge
may, in addition, require that the defendant:
            1.   Pay a fine not in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
            2.   Work or pursue a course of study or vocational training.
            3.   Undergo medical or psychiatric treatment, or treatment for
drug addiction or alcoholism.
            4.   Make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed
actual loss or damage to property and pecuniary loss.
            5.   If a minor,
               (i)   Reside with his parent or in a foster home.
               (ii)   Attend school.
               (iii)   Attend a nonresidential program for youth.
               (iv)   Contribute to his own support at home or in a foster
home.
         c.   Payment: When a court orders restitution or reparation as a
condition of conditional discharge, the court shall determine the amount and
conditions of payment. When the conditions of payment have not been satisfied,
the court, at any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period of
conditional discharge, may impose an additional period of not more than two (2)
years. Only the conditions of payment shall continue to apply during such
additional period. The court shall retain all of the incidents of the original
sentence, including the authority to modify or enlarge the original conditions
and to revoke the penalty of conditional discharge if the conditions of payment
are violated during such additional period.
         d.   Violation, Modification Or Revocation Of Conditional Discharge:
            1.   When a petition is filed charging a violation of a condition,
the court may:
               (i)   Order a summons to the offender to appear; or
               (ii)   Order a warrant for the offender's arrest where there is
danger of his fleeing the jurisdiction or causing serious harm to others or
when the offender fails to answer a summons.
The issuance of such warrant or summons shall toll the sentence of conditional
discharge until the final determination of the charge, and the term of the
conditional discharge shall not run so long as the offender has not answered
the summons or warrant.
            2.   The court shall conduct a hearing on the alleged violation.
The court may admit the offender to bail pending the hearing.
            3.   The city has the burden of going forward with the evidence and
proving the violation by the preponderance of the evidence. The evidence shall
be presented in open court with the right of confrontation, cross-examination
and representation by counsel.
            4.   Conditional discharge shall not be revoked for failure to
comply with conditions of a sentence which imposes financial obligations upon
the offender unless such failure is due to his wilful refusal to pay.
            5.   If the court finds that the offender has violated a condition
at any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period, it may
continue him on the existing period, with or without modifying or enlarging the
conditions, or may impose any other penalty that was available at the time of
the initial penalty.
            6.   The conditions of conditional discharge may be modified by the
court on motion of the city, on its own motion or at the request of the
offender after notice to the defendant and a hearing.
            7.   A judgment revoking probation or conditional discharge is a
final appealable order. (Ord., § 3, 2-21-1977)
Sec. 10-88. Offenses:
Within the corporate limits of the city, no person shall:
      (1)   Knowingly or recklessly damage any property of another person
without that person's consent; or
      (2)   Knowingly and without authority enter into or obtain control over
any motor vehicle, bicycle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of
another person without that person's consent. (Ord., § 2, 2-21-1977)
Sec. 10-89. Liability Of Parent Or Legal Guardian For Minor Offender:
   (a)   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor defendant who
resides with such parent or legal guardian shall be liable for any fine or
condition of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a minor for
violation of this article, provided that the minor has not paid the fine or
made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court, and
further provided that the parent or legal guardian has been served with summons
or notice to appear in the original cause as provided by law.
   (b)   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor defendant who
resides with such parent or legal guardian shall be a necessary party to any
proceeding under this article. (Ord., § 4, 2-21-1977)
ARTICLE III. TRUANCY
Sec. 10-90. Truancy Prohibited:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person enrolled in grades one through
twelve (12) in a public, private or parochial school within the corporate
limits of the city to absent himself or herself from attendance at school
without "valid cause". Any person who shall so absent himself or herself shall
be guilty of the offense of truancy and be subject to the penalties hereinafter
set forth. "Valid cause" for absence shall be illness, observance of a
religious holiday, death in the immediate family, family emergency, and shall
include such other situations beyond the control of the student as determined
by the board of education in each district, or other such circumstances which
cause reasonable concern to the parent for the safety or health of the student.
   (b)   Any person violating the provisions of this section as a first offense
shall be subject to a citation, which citation shall be paid at the police
department in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00); if paid within seven
(7) days of the date issued the amount shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00). Any
second and subsequent violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day during which or on which any person violates the provisions
of this section shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (c)   Any duly appointed and authorized truant officer for the School
District #41 or any subdivision thereof, or any other peace officer, shall have
authority to sign all complaints and charge any violations of this section.
   (d)   Any duly appointed and authorized administrator for the Alleman High
School or any subdivision thereof, or any other peace officer, shall have
authority to sign all complaints and charge any violations of this section.
(Ord. 92-120, 9-28-1992; Ord. 92-132, 10-26-1992; Ord. 96-82, 10-28-1996; Ord.
80-2000, §§ 1, 2, 10-23-2000)
ARTICLE IV. PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES
Sec. 10-91. Purpose:
This article is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and welfare of the people of the city, and is intended to
address situations where parents have failed to act responsibly and reasonably
in the supervision of their minor children to the detriment of the general
public. (Ord. 96-65, 9-16-1996)
Sec. 10-92. Definitions:
   Delinquent Acts: Those acts which violate the laws of the United States, or
the statutes of the state or the ordinances of the city or those acts which
would cause or tend to cause the minor to come under the jurisdiction of the
juvenile division, the department of children and family services, county court
services or the juvenile court but does not include traffic violations.
   Illegal Drugs: Controlled substances obtained without a legal prescription.
   Juvenile Delinquent: Those minors whose behavior interferes with the rights
of others or menaces the welfare of the community.
   Minor: For the purpose of this article, "minor" shall include persons who
are above the age of seven (7) years, but not yet eighteen (18) years of age.
   Parent: A mother, father, legal guardian and any other person having the
care or custody of a minor or any person acting in the parent's stead who has
custody or control of the minor.
   Recklessly: Conduct engaged in by a person in conscious disregard of a
substantial and justifiable risk that circumstances exist or that a result will
follow which constitutes an offense under this article and where such disregard
constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a reasonable
person would exercise in the situation. (Ord. 96-65, 9-16-1996)
Sec. 10-93. Parental Duties:
   (a)   It is the continuous duty of the parent of any minor to exercise
reasonable control to prevent the minor from committing any delinquent act.
   (b)   Included (without limitation) in this continuous duty of reasonable
parental control are the following duties:
      (1)   To keep illegal drugs or illegal firearms out of the home and legal
firearms locked in places that are inaccessible to the minor.
      (2)   To know the curfew ordinances (section
10-59 of this chapter) of the city, and to require the minor to observe the
curfew ordinance.
      (3)   To require the minor, if sixteen (16) years of age or younger, to
attend regular school sessions and to forbid the minor to be absent from class
without parental or school permission (section
10-90 of this chapter).
      (4)   To arrange proper supervision for the minor when the parent must be
absent.
      (5)   To take the necessary precautions to prevent the minor from
maliciously or wilfully destroying real, personal, or mixed property which
belongs to the city or is located in the city.
      (6)   To forbid the minor from keeping stolen property, illegally
possessing firearms or illegal drugs, or associating with known juvenile
delinquents, and to seek help from appropriate governmental authorities or
private agencies in handling or controlling the minor, when necessary. (Ord.
96-65, 9-16-1996)
Sec. 10-94. Parental Violation And Penalty:
   (a)   No parent or guardian of any minor under the age of eighteen (18)
years shall fail to exercise reasonable parental control over such minor. An
adjudication that said minor has committed a felony, misdemeanor or violation
of an ordinance which is deemed a civil infraction as identified in subsection
10-93(b) of this article, may be considered as evidence that said parent or
guardian failed to exercise reasonable parental control.
   (b)   Pursuant to the violation of this article, the parent/guardian of
minor shall be held civilly responsible for the damages caused by the
commission of any delinquent act within the city.
   (c)   Upon the first adjudication of a minor of committing a felony,
misdemeanor, or ordinance violation the notice sent to the parent/guardian
shall be considered as a warning.
   (d)   Upon subsequent adjudication of a minor within two (2) years of his or
her first adjudication, as provided in subsection (c) of this section,
following the aforesaid notice to parent/guardian, a first violation of this
article will be deemed to have occurred and the parent/guardian shall receive a
fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00), nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00). If paid within twenty four (24) hours at police
headquarters, this fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (e)   In lieu of any citation payment or any fine mentioned herein for a
first offense, a parent/guardian may notify the chief of police, in writing, of
their intention to complete a parenting course provided by an acceptable
organization recognized locally and/or nationally to provide such a course. The
cost and expense relating to attendance at such a course shall be the
responsibility of the parent/guardian. If parent/guardian provides proof of
completion to the chief of police, the chief of police shall have the authority
to waive any such citation or fine for the first offense.
   (f)   Upon the second offense of a violation of this article, the parent/
guardian shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and, in addition,
shall be sentenced to probation with the condition that the parent/guardian
participate in, through completion, a city approved, community based treatment
program (such as parenting skills, family services, employment and training,
etc.).
   (g)   Upon the third or subsequent offense of a violation of this article,
the parent/guardian shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 96-65,
9-16-1996)
Sec. 10-95. Notification Of Parents; Record Of Notification:
   (a)   Whenever a minor is apprehended or detained for a delinquent or
reckless act, the parent or legal guardian shall receive a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
police department of the city following said adjudication or nonjudicial
sanction; and
   (b)   A record of such notification shall be maintained by the records
division of the Rock Island police department. (Ord. 96-65, 9-16-1996)
Sec. 10-96. Liability Of Parents; Record Of Notification:
   (a)   Injuring Or Destroying Property Or Acts Of Vandalism: It shall be
unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously break, deface, injure or
destroy any property within the city, whether such property is owned by the
state, county, city or any other governmental body, or owned by any private
person. It shall be a violation of this section for any person to commit an act
of vandalism.
   (b)   Liable For Actual Damages: The parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian is liable
for actual damages for the wilful or malicious acts of such minor which cause
injury to a person or property.
   (c)   Recovery: No recovery under this section may exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) actual damages for each person or legal entity for each
occurrence of such wilful or malicious acts by the minor causing injury, in
addition to taxable court costs. In determining the damages to be allowed in an
action under this article for personal injury, only medical, dental and
hospital expenses may be recovered.
   (d)   Other Liability: This article shall not effect the recovery of damages
in any other cause of action where the liability of the parent or legal
guardian is predicated on a common law or statutory basis. (Ord. 96-65, 9-16-
1996)
Sec. 10-97. Severability:
Should any section, subdivision, clause or phrase of this article be declared
by the courts to be invalid or unacceptable, such holding shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of the article as a whole or any part thereof, other
than such parts so invalidated or declared unenforceable. (Ord. 96-65, 9-16-
1996)
ARTICLE V. GRAFFITI
Sec. 10-98. Purpose:
This article is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and welfare of the people of the City, and is intended to
address situations where those individuals under the age of eighteen (18) have
access to containers of spray paint to prevent the use of spray paint and other
such materials to deface public and/or private property, and to provide for the
speedy removal of graffiti. (Ord. 98-24, 4-13-1998)
Sec. 10-99. Definitions:
   Graffiti: Any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word, diagram,
sketch, picture or letter placed upon the real or personal property of an owner
without the owner's express, written permission, provided, however, it shall
not be a defense that the owner or occupant has given permission where this
graffiti tends to incite violence.
   Minor: Shall include persons who are under the age of eighteen (18) years,
for the purpose of this article. (Ord. 98-24, 4-13-1998)
Sec. 10-100. Purchase And/Or Possession Of Spray Paint:
It shall be unlawful for any person who is a minor to possess a spray paint
container in cans larger than three (3) fluid ounces on any public property or
any private property except with the express permission of the lawful owner or
manager of said private property. (Ord. 98-24, 4-13-1998)
Sec. 10-101. Placing Of Graffiti:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Place graffiti upon the real or personal, public or private
property of another.
      (2)   For the owner and/or occupant of fixed real or personal property
located within the public view to place or give permission to place "graffiti",
as defined above, on said real or personal property if the graffiti tends to
incite violence by referring to gang or criminal activity, depicts or expresses
obscenity or contains defamatory material about a public or private person,
except as otherwise allowed by law.
      (3)   To possess, while in any public building facility, or while on
private property, any of the following materials with the intent to use such
material(s) to violate subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section: spray
paint containers, paint, ink, marking pens containing nonwater-soluble fluid,
brushes, applicators or other materials for marking, scratching or etching.
(Ord. 98-24, 4-13-1998)
Sec. 10-102. Notification Of Graffiti Presence:
   (a)   Upon being notified, in writing, by the Director of the Community and
Economic Development Department, the property owner upon which graffiti has
been illegally placed shall remove the graffiti within fifteen (15) days of the
date of notice.
   (b)   By written request, this time period may be waived due to weather
conditions by the Director of the Community and Economic Development Department
or the Director of the Community and Economic Development Department's
designee.
   (c)   The property owner may also request assistance, in writing, for the
graffiti removal based on the owner's inability to perform removal.
   (d)   If the property owner wishes to object to the notification to remove
graffiti, they may:
      (1)   Request a hearing before the Code Hearing Officer by submitting a
written request to the City of Rock Island prior to the expiration of the
fifteen (15) days herein provided.
      (2)   If the Code Hearing Officer finds that there is insufficient
evidence to support the notification, it shall be rescinded.
      (3)   If the Code Hearing Officer finds sufficient evidence to support
the notification, the owner may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court,
pursuant to the Administrative Review Act. (Ord. 013-2018, 4-23-2018)
Sec. 10-103. Failure To Remove Graffiti:
Failure to remove the graffiti within the specified time shall cause the
summary abatement of this nuisance as prescribed in this chapter and the owner
shall be assessed the costs therefor. (Ord. 98-24, 4-13-1998)
Sec. 10-104. Penalty:
   (a)   The penalty upon conviction for violation of section 10-100 of this
article shall be a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (b)   Penalty for violating subsection 10-101(a)(1) of this article shall be
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). The offender may also be ordered by the Code Hearing
Officer, in addition to fines, to pay restitution to the property owner for the
costs of restoring the property to its condition before the graffiti was
applied.
   (c)   Penalty for violating subsection 10-101(a)(2) of this article shall
consist of a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (d)   Penalty for violating subsection 10-101(a)(3) of this article shall be
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   (e)   In the event a person is accused of a violation and does not wish to
contest the allegation prior to the time a complaint is issued for the
violation, then the person so accused may pay to the City at police
headquarters a penalty in the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for and in full
satisfaction of the violation provided that the graffiti has been removed.
(Ord. 98-24, 4-13-1998)
Sec. 10-105. Removal By A City Authorized Agent:
The City shall have the authority to designate and/or authorize an agency to
clean graffiti at locations within the City which may be required by the
Community and Economic Development Department, the Hearing Officer or the court
as a result of a violation of this article. (Ord. 98-24, 4-13-1998)
Sec. 10-106. Removal By Public Works Department:
The Public Works Department, in addition to or in lieu of fines or penalties
described in subsection 10-104(b), (c) or (d) of this article, resulting from a
violation of subsection 10-101(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this article, may
recover its costs incurred for cleaning or removing the graffiti from the
violator. (Ord. 98-24, 4-13-1998)
ARTICLE VI. JUDICIARY
Sec. 10-107. Administrative Adjudication Of Violations Of City Ordinances:
Sec. 10-107.1. Purpose:
The stated purpose of this article is to provide for fair and efficient
enforcement of city ordinances as may be allowed by law and directed by
ordinance, through an administrative adjudication of violations of such city
ordinances and establishing a schedule of fines and penalties, and authority
and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and penalties. (Ord. 99-87 § 1,
11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.2. Creation:
There is hereby established an executive department of the municipal government
to be known as the Rock Island ordinance enforcement department (hereinafter
referred to as "RIOED") and to have the power to enforce compliance with all
municipal ordinances as from time to time authorized by the city council,
except for any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense
that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for
any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. This
article may be enforced through the use of an administrative hearing officer
system created by intergovernmental agreement between the city and such other
governmental agency as shall be parties to such agreement. The establishment of
the Rock Island ordinance enforcement department does not preclude the mayor
and city council from using any other method to enforce ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 99-87, § 1, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.3. Administrative Composition:
The Rock Island ordinance enforcement department shall be composed of a hearing
officer, and such support personnel as shall be necessary to effect the purpose
of this article, with the power and authority as hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   The hearing officer shall preside over all adjudicatory hearings
and shall have the following powers and duties:
         a.   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the city code violation;
         b.   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
         c.   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
         d.   Issuing and signing a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a city code violation exists; and
         e.   Imposing penalties, sanctions or such other relief consistent
with applicable city code provisions and assessing costs upon finding a party
liable for the charge violation, except however, that in no event shall the
hearing officer have authority to impose a penalty of incarceration.
      (2)   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings under
this chapter, the hearing officer shall have successfully completed a formal
training program which includes the following:
         a.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings over which the hearing officer shall preside;
         b.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that he/
she will adjudicate;
         c.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
         d.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   In addition, a hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law
in the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years.
The mayor is hereby authorized to appoint persons to hold the position above
set forth. (Ord. 99-87, § 1, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.4. Procedure:
The system of administrative adjudication of any city ordinance violation
authorized to be adjudicated hereunder, shall be in accordance with the
following procedures:
      (1)   Violation notice of any ordinance violation shall be issued by
persons authorized under this code and shall contain information and shall be
certified and constitute prima facie evidence of the violation cited as
hereinafter set forth.
      (2)   All full-time, part-time and auxiliary police officers as well as
other specifically authorized individuals of any city department shall have the
authority to issue violation notices.
      (3)   Any individual authorized hereby to issue violation notices and who
detects an ordinance violation authorized to be adjudicated under this chapter
or a violation of any section of any city ordinance, is authorized to issue
notice of violation thereof and shall make service thereof as is hereinafter
set forth.
      (4)   The violation notice shall contain, but shall not be limited to,
the following information:
         a.   The name of the party violating the ordinance, if known.
         b.   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
         c.   The particular ordinance violated.
         d.   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable).
         e.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment.
         f.   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
         g.   The date and location of the adjudicating hearing of ordinance
violations, the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to
be held and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing. (Ord. 99-87, §
1, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.5. Service:
   (a)   Service of any violation notice shall be made by the person issuing
such notice:
      (1)   Handing the notice to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation;
      (2)   Handing the notice to the responsible person or leaving the notice
with any person twelve (12) years of age or older at the residence of the
responsible person;
      (3)   Mailing the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the person responsible for the ordinance violation; or
      (4)   Posting the notice upon the property where the violation is found
when the person is the owner or manager of the property.
   (b)   The correctness of facts contained in any violation notice shall be
verified by the person issuing said notice by:
      (1)   Signing his/her name to the notice at the time of issuance; or
      (2)   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the ordinance enforcement administrator,
attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under
his/her control.
   (c)   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be retained
by the ordinance enforcement administrator and kept as a record in the ordinary
course of business.
   (d)   Any violation notice issued, signed and served in accordance herewith,
or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie
evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice. (Ord. 99-87, § 1,
11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.6. Administrative Hearings:
An administrative hearing to adjudicate any alleged ordinance violation on its
merits shall be granted to the alleged violator at the date, time and place set
forth by the RIOED and by notice given and served upon the alleged violator.
All administrative hearings shall be recorded and shall culminate in a
determination of liability or nonliability, made by the hearing officer, who
shall consider facts and/or testimony without the application of the formal or
technical rules of evidence. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only
if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonable prudent persons in the
conduct of their affairs. The hearing officer shall, upon a determination of
liability, assess fines and penalties in accordance with section
10-107.11 of this article. Persons appearing to contest the alleged violation
on its merits may be represented by counsel at their own expense. The burden of
proof shall be on the alleged offender to refute the prima facie case set forth
in the verified notice of violation. (Ord. 99-87, § 1, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.7. Notices:
Service of notices sent in accordance herewith shall be complete as of the date
of deposit in the United States mail. The notices sent in accordance herewith
shall be in the following sequence and contain, but not be limited to, the
following information:
      (1)   Upon failure of the person receiving a notice of a violation of a
city ordinance, to appear at the time and date designated for a hearing stated
on said notice, the RIOED shall send or cause to be sent notices by first class
mail, postage prepaid, to the person who received the notice of an ordinance
violation and shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
         a.   Date and location of violation cited in the violation notice;
         b.   Particular ordinance violated;
         c.   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable);
         d.   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment;
         e.   A section entitled "Notice of Hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the person receiving a notice of ordinance violation may appear at
an administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice on
the date and at the time and place as specified in the notice of hearing;
         f.   Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits;
         g.   Statement that failure to either pay fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of liability
for the "cited" violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated;
         h.   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust,
available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or
penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the city.
      (2)   A notice of final determination of liability shall be sent
following the conclusion of administrative hearing, as is hereinafter set
forth, and shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information and
warnings:
         a.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a
debt due and owing the city.
         b.   A statement of any sanction ordered or costs imposed which costs
are debts due and owing the city.
         c.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and
owing the city within the time specified may result in proceeding with
collection procedures in the same manner as a judgment entered by any court of
competent jurisdiction.
         d.   Any other warning of possible impoundment as permitted by law or
ordinance. (Ord. 99-87, § 1, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.8. Final Determination Of Liability:
A final determination of liability shall occur following the failure to pay the
fine or penalty after the hearing officer's determination of liability and the
exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures
hereinafter set forth. Where a person fails to appear at the administrative
hearing to contest the alleged violation on the date and at the time and place
specified in a prior served or mailed notice pursuant to section
10-107.7 of this article, the hearing officer's determination of liability
shall become final either upon a denial of a timely petition to set aside that
determination or upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition
without a filing having been made. (Ord. 99-87, § 1, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.9. Judicial Review:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
under the Illinois Administrative Review Law. (Ord. 99-87, § 1, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.10. Enforcement Of Judgment:
   (a)   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois Administrative
Review Law are a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (b)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   In any case in which a Hearing Officer finds that a defendant has
failed to comply with a judgment ordering a defendant to correct a Code
violation or imposing any fine or other sanction as a result of a Code
violation, any expenses incurred by a municipality to enforce the judgment
including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs, and costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure after they are fixed by the Hearing Officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the Municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   (d)   A lien shall be imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both
of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the Municipality under
this section. The lien may be recorded and enforced in the same manner as a
judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. No
lien may be enforced under this section until it has been recorded in the
manner provided by article XII of the Code of Civil Procedure or by the Uniform
Commercial Code.
   (e)   A Hearing Officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of the order of default if the Hearing Officer determines that the
petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any time
if the petitioner establishes that the Municipality did not provide proper
service of process. (Ord. 99-87, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.11. Schedule Of Ordinances And Penalties:
The ordinance covered by this article and the minimum penalties to be imposed
for violation thereof, is as follows:
Code Section No.  Offense  Penalty
Code Section No.    Offense                         Penalty
1-13.1(a)(1)        Attempted retail theft under    $50.00-$500.00
                    $150.00
1-13.1(a)(2)        Attempted criminal damage to    $25.00-$500.00
                    property under $150.00
1-13.1(a)(3)        Attempted theft of property     $50.00-$500.00
                    under $150.00
                    Attempted entry into licensed
1-13.1(a)(4)        liquor establishment without    $50.00-$500.00
                    presenting identification
1-13.1(a)(5)        Attempted purchase of alcohol   $50.00-$500.00
                    by persons under 21
3-10(b)             Sale of alcohol to minor        $150.00-$500.00
                    (business only)
3-10(c)             Purchase and consumption of     $200.00-$500.00
                    alcohol by minors prohibited
3-10(f)             Falsification of proof of age   $200.00-$500.00
                    prohibited
3-10(g)             Employment of minors            $150.00-$500.00
3-10(i)             Minor on premises prohibited    $200.00-$500.00
3-10(l)             Solicitation for purchase of    $150.00-$500.00
                    alcohol by minor
3-11(g)             Closing time                    $100.00-$500.00
3-11(i)             Gambling devices                $100.00-$500.00
3-11(m)             Indecency/obscenity             $200.00-$500.00
3-11(n)             Prostitution/pandering          $200.00-$500.00
4-1                 Violation of the Building Code  $50.00-$500.00
4-3                 Violation of the Plumbing Code  $50.00-$500.00
4-4                 Violation of the Mechanical     $50.00-$500.00
                    Code
4-21 - 4-25         Violation of the Electrical     $50.00-$500.00
                    Code
4-46 - 4-65         Violation of the sign           $500.00
                    ordinance
4-111 - 4-122       Violation of the Abatement of   $300.00
                    Dangerous Buildings Code
4-136 - 4-145       Violation of the abandoned      $300.00
                    building ordinance
4-175 - 4-185       Violation of the residential    $50.00-$500.00
                    rental property ordinance
6-18                Violation of Fire Prevention    $500.00
                    Code
7-115               Cruelty to animals              $100.00-$500.00
7-116(b)            Running at large generally      $100.00-$500.00
                    (dog)
7-117               Vicious animal                  $75.00-$500.00
7-136               Inoculation required (rabies)   $100.00-$500.00
7-140               License - required; amount of   $100.00-$500.00
                    fee
7-147(b)            Health and cruelty (noisy       $75.00-$500.00
                    animals)
7-181               Violation of Housing Code       $300.00
7-231 - 7-235       Violation of nuisance and       $25.00-$100.00
                    refuse ordinance
8-59                False alarm                     $25.00-$500.00
8-86                Youth dance license             $100.00-$500.00
8-234               Prohibited activities on Great  $75.00-$500.00
                    River Plaza
8-493(a)            Sale or delivery of tobacco to  $200.00-$500.00
                    minor
8-494(a)            Sale of tobacco by minor        $200.00-$500.00
                    (business)
8-494(b)            Purchase by minors prohibited   $75.00-$500.00
                    (tobacco)
8-494(c)            Possession by minors            $75.00-$500.00
                    prohibited (tobacco)
9-9.1(a)            Illegal operation of sound      $75.00-$500.00
                    amplification systems
9-9.2               Unlawful use of electronic      $75.00
                    communication devices
9-10(c)             No bicycle registration         $25.00-$100.00
9-12(a)(1), (a)(2)  Car owner responsibility        As provided
                    assignment
                    First offense of overtime
9-83                parking in a 30 minute, 1 hour  $10.00
                    or 2 hour parking zone
                    Overtime parking
                    1st violation                    
9-88                2nd, 3rd and 4th violation,     $20.00-$40.00
                    each                            $25.00-$45.00
                    Total of 4 violations -         $95.00-$175.00
                    maximum
10-4                Indecent exposure; lewd         $150.00-$500.00
                    exhibitions
                    Firearms, explosives,
10-9                slingshots, fireworks, bow and  $50.00-$500.00
                    arrow, air gun
10-10               Obstruction of roadways         $100.00-$500.00
10-12               Getting on or holding onto      $50.00-$500.00
                    vehicle
10-14               Coasting on streets             $50.00-$500.00
10-16               Excavation, openings, etc. -    $50.00-$500.00
                    safety
10-18               Abandoned, etc., airtight       $100.00-$500.00
                    containers
10-20(b)            Assault; battery                $75.00-$500.00
10-21               Disturbing the peace            $100.00-$500.00
10-21.1             Public urination and            $100.00-$500.00
                    defecation prohibited
10-23               Loitering                       $50.00-$500.00
                    Disorderly conduct                
10-26               subsections (a)(1), (a)(6) and  $50.00-$500.00
                    (a)(7)                          $100.00-$500.00
                    subsection (a)(5)
10-26(a)(2)         Disorderly conduct (false fire  $100.00-$500.00
                    alarm)
10-26(a)(3)         Disorderly conduct (bomb        $100.00-$500.00
                    threat)
10-26(a)(4)         Disorderly conduct (false       $100.00-$500.00
                    police report)
10-27               Disturbing school or assembly   $100.00-$500.00
10-28               Time for closing a place of     $100.00-$500.00
                    amusement
10-30               Concealed weapon                $150.00-$500.00
10-32(a)            Resisting or obstructing a      $100.00-$500.00
                    police officer
10-32(c)            Impersonation of a police       $50.00-$500.00
                    officer
                    Depositing rubbish in streets;
10-39               burning rubbish, leaves, etc.,  $75.00-$500.00
                    in streets - prohibited
10-40.1             Leaf burning prohibited         $25.00-$500.00
10-47               Destruction of or damage to     $100.00-$500.00
                    street signs
10-51               Possession of alcoholic         $200.00-$500.00
                    liquors on public right-of-way
10-53               Presence in City parking        $50.00-$500.00
                    building and parking lot C
10-54               Retail theft under $150.00      $150.00-$500.00
10-56               Criminal damage to property     $75.00-$500.00
                    less than $300.00
10-57               Criminal trespass to land       $100.00-$500.00
10-58               Criminal trespass to vehicles   $100.00-$500.00
10-59(b)            Curfew hours for minors         $100.00-$500.00
10-60            Possession of less than 2.5     $200.00-$500.00
                    grams of cannabis
                    Possession of more than 2.5
10-60.1             grams but not more than 10      $300.00-$750.00
                    grams of cannabis
10-60.2             Possession of drug              $200.00-$500.00
                    paraphernalia
10-61               Prostitution                    $0.00-$500.00
10-61.1             Solicitation of a sexual act    $0.00-$500.00
10-62               Soliciting for prostitution     $0.00-$500.00
10-64               Patronizing a prostitute        $0.00-$500.00
10-65               Pimping                         $0.00-$500.00
10-66               Public indecency                $0.00-$500.00
10-67               Theft of property generally     $100.00-$500.00
                    (less than $150.00)
10-68               Trespass to restricted area     $50.00-$500.00
10-70               Driver and passenger required   $25.00
                    to use safety belts
10-90(a)            Truancy prohibited              $50.00-$500.00
10-94               Parental violation and penalty  $100.00-$500.00
                    (curfew)
                    Violation of preservation of
11-91 - 11-115      historical or architecturally   $500.00
                    significant property
11-142 - 11-146     Violation of parking lot        $200.00
                    ordinance
13-22               General conditions (solid       $5.00-$500.00 per day
                    waste)
13-24               Storage facilities for refuse   $5.00-$500.00 per day
13-25               Collection; removal generally   $5.00-$500.00 per day
13-26               Collection of brush             $5.00-$500.00 per day
13-31               Commercial refuse and garbage   $5.00-$500.00 per day
                    containers
13-32               Needles, syringes, lancets and  $5.00-$500.00 per day
                    sharp objects
13-33               Commercial rubbish and garbage  $5.00-$500.00 per day
                    haulers
13-38               Removal of weeds and grass      $75.00-$400.00
13-101              Painting, etc.                  $1.00-$200.00 per violation
14-20               Violation of park rules and     $75.00
                    regulations
App. A, I-XXVI      Violation of zoning ordinance   $500.00
App. D              Violation of stormwater         $250.00-$1,500.00 per day
                    control
 
(Ord. 020-2012, 3-19-2012; Ord. 080-2012, 12-17-2012; Ord. 029-2014, 3-24-2014;
Ord. 059-2015, 12-14-2015; Ord. 020-2016, 4-18-2016; Ord. 025-2016, 5-9-2016;
Ord. 026-2016, 5-16-2016; Ord. 050-2017, 12-11-2017)
Sec. 10-107.12. Severability:
Should a court of competent jurisdiction determine that one or more sections or
subsections of this article is or are invalid, the remaining sections and
subsections hereof shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 99-87, § 1, 11-
1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.13. Effective Date/Publication:
This article shall become effective ten (10) days after publication. (Ord. 99-
87, § 1, 11-1-1999)
Sec. 10-107.14. Repealer:
Any and all ordinances, sections or subsections of ordinances in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed. (Ord. 99-87, § 1, 11-1-1999)
ARTICLE VII. AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING
Sec. 10-108. Definitions:
For purposes of this article:
   Aggressive Panhandling: Panhandling that includes one or more of the
following actions:
      (1)   The touching of the solicited person without the solicited person's
consent.
      (2)   Intentionally blocking the path of travel of the person being
solicited.
      (3)   Intentionally blocking the entrance to any vehicle or building.
      (4)   The stepping into the main traveled portion of a city street or
highway with the intention of soliciting a donation from a driver of or
passenger in an automobile on said roadway, without first obtaining a permit
for such activity from the City Clerk.
      (5)   Continuing to solicit or request a donation from a person after
that person has refused an earlier request.
      (6)   Following or remaining alongside a person who, after being
solicited, walks away from the person panhandling.
      (7)   Making any statement, gesture or other communication that would
cause a reasonable person to feel threatened, fearful or compelled.
   Panhandling: Any request for or solicitation of an immediate donation of
money. A request or solicitation to purchase an item for an amount far
exceeding its value, and circumstances where a reasonable person would
understand that the purchase is in substance a donation, constitutes
panhandling. Panhandling shall not include the act of passively standing,
sitting or engaging in a musical performance or other street performance with a
sign or other indication that donations are being sought, without any verbal
request for a donation other than in response to an inquiry by another person.
   Person: Shall include firms and corporations. (Ord. 109-2005, § 1, 12-12-
2005)
Sec. 10-109. Unlawful Acts:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
aggressive panhandling.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more people, firms or corporations
to intentionally work in concert to commit acts that would constitute
aggressive panhandling if those acts were performed by a single individual,
firm or corporation.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
panhandling whether the panhandler or the person being solicited is located in
any of the following places:
      (1)   At any bus stop.
      (2)   In any public transportation vehicle or facility.
      (3)   In a vehicle that is parked or stopped on any public street or
alley.
      (4)   Within twenty feet (20') of an automatic teller machine or the
entrance to a bank, credit union or savings and loan.
      (5)   On private property, without the consent of the owner of the
property.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
panhandling between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. until eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. of the next ensuing day. (Ord. 109-2005, § 1, 12-12-2005)
Sec. 10-110. Penalty:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this article, shall
be fined:
      (1)   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense;
      (2)   One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the second offense;
      (3)   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and each subsequent
offense.
Each separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 109-2005, § 4, 12-12-2005)
Chapter 11
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 1
 
Notes
  Cross references--Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations,
  ch. 4; health, ch. 7; public works, streets and sidewalks, ch. 13; zoning,
1 app. A; subdivisions, app. B.
  State law reference--Planning, zoning and urban rehabilitation, 65 ILCS 5/11-
  11-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. PLANNING COMMISSION
Sec. 11-1. Creation of Commission:
   (a)   There is hereby created a city planning commission, referred to in
this article as the "commission", which shall consist of nine (9) members who
are residents of the city. The membership of the commission shall be broadly
representative of the community including the different Wards of the city.
   (b)   The members of the commission shall be appointed by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the City Council. Special appointments to said commission
shall be made as vacancies may occur. (Ord. 001-2020, 1-13-2020)
Sec. 11-2. Duties of Commission:
   The planning commission shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive plan
of public improvements looking to the present and future development of the
city, such plan after its adoption by the City Council, to be known as the
official plan of the city. The commission may thereafter, from time to time,
recommend any changes in the official plan. The plan may include reasonable
requirements with reference to streets, alleys and public grounds in
unsubdivided lands within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory
outside of and distant not more than one and one-half (1-1/2) miles from such
limits, and not included in any city, village or incorporated town, such
requirements to be effective whenever such lands shall be subdivided after the
adoption of such official plan.
      (2)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, from time to time,
plans for specific improvements in pursuance of such official plan.
      (3)   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan.
      (4)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council schemes for regulating
or forbidding structures or activities which may hinder access to solar energy
necessary for the proper functioning of solar energy systems, as defined in 30
Illinois Compiled Statutes 725/1.2, or to recommend changes in such schemes.
      (5)   To exercise such other powers, germane to the powers granted
herein, as may be conferred by the City Council or granted by state statute.
(1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III; Ord. 001-2020, 1-13-2020)
Sec. 11-3. Officers:
   (a)   Generally: Officers shall consist of a Chair and Vice Chair elected by
the commission who shall each serve a term of one year and shall be eligible
for reelection. Elections shall be held annually.
   (b)   Chair: The Chair shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the
Chair, the Vice Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair. If both are
absent, a temporary Chair shall be elected by those present.
   (c)   Planning Administrator: The Planning Commission Administrator shall
serve as the Secretary of the commission and be a representative of the
Department of Community and Economic Development of the city. The Planning
Commission Administrator shall:
      (1)   Take minutes of each commission meeting, originals of which shall
be kept in the Office of Community and Economic Development and make these
available to the public;
      (2)   Provide administrative and technical assistance to the commission
to assist it in making the decisions and findings as provided herein;
      (3)   Publish and distribute to the Commissioners copies of the minutes,
reports, and decisions of the commission;
      (4)   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the commission;
      (5)   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the commission and expiring terms
of Commissioners;
      (6)   The Planning Commission Administrator shall have no vote.
   (d)   Elections and Appointments:
      (1)   Election of Officers: The commission shall elect officers at its
regular meeting during the month of July or the next regularly scheduled
meeting. The Chair may either appoint a nominating committee to nominate a
slate of candidates for presentation to the commission or hold open nominations
at the annual meeting. Voting shall be by the method deemed appropriate by the
majority of the commission members present. The order of election shall be the
Chair first and the Vice Chair next.
      (2)   Removal of Officers: The commission may remove any officer after a
written statement signed by a majority of the current members and stating the
reasons for removal is formally filed with the commission and after a formal
hearing by the commission at which time said officer is afforded opportunity to
respond to such statement. Such hearing shall be held no later than five (5)
weeks after formal filing of the written statement and only after written
notice of the hearing has been given to all commission members at least two (2)
weeks in advance of such hearing. Such notice shall include a copy of the
statement of reasons for removal. Following such hearing said officer may be
removed only upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the commission members.
      (3)   Replacement of Officers: In the event any office of the commission
becomes vacant, a replacement shall be elected at the next regular meeting to
serve the unexpired term of the vacated office.
      (4)   Temporary Absence of Officers:
         a.   Temporary Appointments by Chair: In the event of the temporary
absence, disability, or disqualification of any officer, the Chair may appoint
other members to serve temporarily in their capacity and to assume during such
temporary period all the powers and duties of such officers as may be
immediately necessary to carry out the duties of that office.
         b.   Temporary Appointments By The Commission: In the event that the
Chair and the Vice-Chair of the commission should be absent or unable for any
reason to attend to the duties of their office, the members of the commission
may at any regular meeting or special meeting called for that purpose, appoint
a Chair Pro-Tem or a Vice-Chair Pro Tem, as the case may be, who shall attend
to all the duties of such officer until such officer shall return to be able to
attend to their duties. (Ord. 001-2020, 1-13-2020)
Sec. 11-4. Meetings:
   (a)   The commission shall meet at the city hall at such times as meetings
are called by the chairman or a majority of the members of the commission.
   (b)   The seat of any voting member of the Commission who fails to attend
three (3) consecutive meetings without a valid reason, or who fails to attend
one half (1/2) of all meetings scheduled or called during any one-year period
shall be declared vacant. Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the
same manner as for original appointments to the Commission. (Ord. 001-2020, 1-
13- 2020)
Se c. 11-5.   Terms of Appointment:
   The members of the planning commission shall be appointed by the mayor
subject to confirmation by the city council, and shall hold office for three
(3) years, ending April 30, or until their successors have been appointed. In
order to initiate an arrangement of staggered terms, the terms of three (3) or
more members shall expire each year.
(1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III; Ord. 001-2020, 1-13-2020)
Secs. 11-6 – 11-15. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. SHORT TERM RENTALS
Sec. 11-16. Short-Term Rentals.
   Any rental property where the term of the rental is less than thirty (30)
days in duration excluding hotels, motels, or bed and breakfast establishments
shall be subject to the following.
   (1)   Short-term rentals shall be permitted uses in all residential and
business zoning districts. They shall be prohibited in all other zoning
districts.
   (2)   Short-term rentals shall have a minimum of one off-street parking spot
for each short-term rental unit at the property designated for the occupant.
   (3)   Short-term rentals shall not have signage of any kind that exceeds one
(1) square foot in area.
(Ord. 58-2025, 6-9-2025)
Secs. 11-17 – 11-50. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. ARTS AND BEAUTIFICATION COMMISSION
Sec. 11-51. Creation Of Commission:
There is created an Arts and Beautification Commission to assist the City in
the planning and development of arts and beautification programs that encourage
public and private investment towards enhancing community character and
improving the quality of life. The Commission shall consist of nine (9) members
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. Five (5) members
of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. The Commission members shall be
broadly representative of the community with knowledge of the visual and
performing arts, landscape architecture, horticulture, ecology, and the
environment. (Ord., § 1, 6-14-1965; Ord., 1-15-1968; Ord. 047-2019, 9-23-2019;
Ord. 056-2023, 11-13-2023)
Sec. 11-52. Duties Of Commission:
   The Arts and Beautification Commission shall possess advisory powers unless
otherwise delegated by the City Council. The Commission's duties shall include:
   (a)   Soliciting community input on the arts and beautification programming;
   (b)   Advising the Mayor and City Council on matters to do with arts and
beautification;
   (c)   Acting as a liaison between the City, agencies, associations, and
residents relative to programs and activities;
   (d)   Making recommendations on the development of new programs and
activities; and
   (e)   Monitoring and evaluating programs and activities. (Ord., § 1, 6-14-
1965; Ord. 047-2019, 9-23-2019; Ord. 056-2023, 11-13-2023)
Sec. 11-53. Officers:
   The Commission shall have a Chair and a Vice chair elected by the Commission
who shall each serve a term of one (1) year and shall be eligible for
reelection. The Chair shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the Chair,
the Vice Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair. If both are absent, a
temporary Chair shall be elected by those present. A staff liaison from the
Community and Economic Development Department shall serve as Secretary to the
Commission and be responsible for preparing and publishing agendas and meeting
minutes. (Ord., § 1, 6-14-1965; Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018; Ord. 047-2019, 9-23-
2019; Ord. 056-2023, 11-13-2023)
Sec. 11-54. Meetings:
   The Commission shall schedule regular meetings on a monthly basis. Meetings
may be cancelled for lack of business. Additional meetings may be called when
needed. All meetings shall be run in accordance with the most recent edition of
Robert's Rules of Order as well as all applicable local, state, and Federal
codes. (Ord., § 1, 6-14-1965; Ord. 047-2019, 9-23- 2019; Ord. 056-2023, 11-13-
2023)
Sec. 11-55. Term Of Appointment:
   (a)   The Commission members shall be divided into three (3) groups and
initially appointed for terms of one (1), two (2), and three (3) years
respectively. Thereafter, members shall be eligible to serve three (3) year
terms. Members may serve two (2) consecutive terms (including the initial
appointment term) before being required to take at least one (1) year off of
the Commission. They may thereafter serve again.
   (b)   During the interval between appointments, any vacancy occurring on the
Commission shall be filled by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council.
Each member chosen to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the
unexpired term being occupied.
   (c)   A member may be removed from the Commission, with or without cause, by
a two-thirds (2/3rds) majority vote of the Commission. Any member who does not
attend at least two-thirds (2/3rds) of the meetings in any twelve (12) month
period (or, if not in office for the entire period, such portion of the period
that the member was in office) shall be automatically deemed to have resigned
from the Commission unless waived by the affirmative two-thirds (2/3rds)
majority vote of the Commission. (Ord., § 1, 6-14-1965; Ord. 047-2019, 9-23-
2019; Ord. 056-2023, 11-13-2023)
Secs. 11-56-11-70. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. FLOOD HAZARDS
Sec. 11-71. Purpose:
This article is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city by
the Illinois municipal code  1  in order to accomplish the following purposes:
      (1)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
      (2)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (3)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
      (4)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
      (5)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
      (6)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
      (7)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water
impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and
riparian habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits and enhance community and economic development. (Ord. 018-2010, § 1,
3-15-2010)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
Sec. 11-72. Definitions:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions are adopted:
   Base Flood: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
flood. The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
11-73  of this chapter.
   Base Flood Elevation (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   Basement: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   Building: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes and prefabricated buildings. The
term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on
a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
   Critical Facility: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put
special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   Development: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not
necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building, or any
addition to a building, exceeding seventy (70) square feet in floor area;
      (2)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
      (3)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days;
      (4)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts
or similar projects;
      (5)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
      (6)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving,
or other alterations of the ground surface;
      (7)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
      (8)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   Existing Manufactured Home Park Or Subdivision: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   Expansion To An Existing Manufactured Home Park Or Subdivision: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
   Flood: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   Flood Fringe: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   Flood Insurance Rate Map: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   Flood Insurance Study: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   Flood Protection Elevation Or FPE: The elevation of the base flood plus two
feet (2') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) (These Terms Are
Synonymous): Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed into the city,
that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the city
are generally identified as such on the countywide flood insurance rate map of
Rock Island County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated April 5, 2010.
   Floodproofing: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate, property and their contents.
   Floodproofing Certificate: A form published by the federal emergency
management agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   Floodway: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the floodplains of Coal Creek, Eckhardt Creek,
Kyte Creek, Mississippi River, Old Channel of Mill Creek, Rock River, Sand
Creek, Sylvan Slough, and Warren Creek shall be as delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of Rock Island County prepared by the federal
emergency management agency and dated April 5, 2010. The floodways for each of
the remaining floodplains of the city, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city or that may be annexed into the city, shall be according to the best data
available from federal, state, or other sources.
   Freeboard: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   Historic Structure: Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the
interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois historic preservation agency.
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
   IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water
resources.
   Lowest Floor: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
11-77  of this chapter.
   Manufactured Home: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP: National flood insurance program.
   Repetitive Loss: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
   Substantial Damage: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during a ten (10) year period equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive
loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
   Substantial Improvement: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: 1) before the improvement or repair is
started, or 2) if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either: 1) any
project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions or 2) any alteration of a structure listed on the
national register of historic places or the Illinois register of historic
places.
   Travel Trailer (Or Recreational Vehicle): A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   Violation: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 018-2010, § 2, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-73. Base Flood Elevation:
This article's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party may finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the federal emergency
management agency for approval.
      (1)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Coal Creek,
Eckhardt Creek, Kyte Creek, Mississippi River, Old Channel of Mill Creek, Rock
River, Sand Creek, and Sylvan Slough shall be as delineated on the 100-year
flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance study of Rock Island County
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated April 5, 2010.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH
zone" or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide flood insurance rate map of Rock Island County.
      (3)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Rock
Island County shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state, or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed to determine base flood elevations.
      (4)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Rock Island County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of Rock Island, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance rate study of
Rock Island County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated April 5, 2010. (Ord. 018-2010, § 3, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-74. Administration:
   (a)   In order to ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this
article, the planning and redevelopment administrator and the building official
shall be responsible for the general administration of this article.
Specifically, the building official and planning and redevelopment
administrator shall jointly:
      (1)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in section
11-82 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this article;
      (2)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
      (3)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this article;
and
      (4)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this article.
   (b)   The building official shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with section
11-75 of this chapter;
      (2)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
11-77 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built" elevation
of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (3)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques.
   (c)   The planning and redevelopment administrator shall:
      (1)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section 11-76
of this chapter;
      (2)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (3)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of section
11-78 of this chapter;
      (4)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
11-80 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted. (Ord. 018-2010, § 4, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-75. Development Permit:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the building official. The building official shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this article.
      (1)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
         a.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
         b.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
         c.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
         d.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
11-77 of this chapter.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
building official shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the date of the site's
first flood insurance rate map identification is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this article. The building
official shall maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the
development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to
the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map identification. (Ord.
018-2010, § 5, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-76. Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages:
Within the floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map
of Rock Island County, and within all other floodplains where a floodway has
not been delineated, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, no
development shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and
anticipated development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities
or threat to public health and safety. The following specific development
activities shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
         a.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 3;
         b.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 4;
         c.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit no. 5;
         d.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit no. 6;
         e.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 7;
         f.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 8;
         g.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 9;
         h.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 10;
         i.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 11; and
         j.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely in
a flood fringe area.
      (2)   Other development activities not listed in subsection (1) of this
section may be permitted only if:
         a.   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); and
         b.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 018-2010, § 6, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-77. Protecting Buildings:
   (a)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
11-76 of this chapter, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively, during the life of the building. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section.
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage); and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days.
      (6)   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
11-72 of this chapter.
   (b)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot (1')
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         e.   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary, stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated; or
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters;
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade. The openings shall provide a total
net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris;
         e.   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished
exterior grade;
         f.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         g.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed;
         h.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not occupied as habitable space; and
         i.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with
these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet (4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (c)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be installed on site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
Illinois mobile home tie down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative
code 870.
   (d)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice; and
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing
for the purpose of this subsection. (Ord. 018-2010, § 7, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-78. Subdivision And Other Development Requirements:
The city council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
      (1)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of sections 11-76 and 11-77 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development
shall include the following data:
         a.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain
(where the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the
applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
         b.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
         c.   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act  2  .
      (2)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development.
In addition to the requirements of sections 11-76 and 11-77 of this chapter,
the following standards apply:
         a.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or
storing chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids,
pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection
elevation unless such materials are stored in a storage tank or floodproofed
building constructed according to the requirements of section 11-77 of this
chapter;
         b.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
         c.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
         d.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste
disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them
or contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (3)   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so
as not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 018-
2010, § 8, 3-15-2010)
 
Notes
2 765 ILCS 205/2.
Sec. 11-79. Carrying Capacity And Notification:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the City shall notify adjacent communities in writing thirty (30)
days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the
watercourse. (Ord. 018-2010, § 9, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-80. Variances:
Whenever the standards of this article place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Board of Zoning Appeals
for a variance. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall review and act upon the
applicant's request for a variance.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates
that:
         a.   The development activity cannot be located outside the
floodplain;
         b.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
         c.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
         d.   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
         e.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
         f.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
         g.   All other required State and Federal permits have been obtained.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of
section 11-77 of this article that would lessen the degree of protection to a
building will:
         a.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance
coverage;
         b.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         c.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
      (3)   Variances to the building protection requirements of section 11-77
of this article requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a site or building included on the National Register of Historic
Places or the Illinois register of historic places may be granted using
criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsections (1)a through (1)e
of this section. (Ord. 018-2010, § 10, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-81. Disclaimer Of Liability:
The degree of protection required by this article is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This article does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This article does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this article or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 018-2010, § 11, 3-15-2010)
Sec. 11-82. Penalty:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this article. Upon due investigation, the Planning and
Redevelopment Administrator or building official may determine that a violation
of the minimum standards of this article exists. The Planning and Redevelopment
Administrator or building official shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
      (1)   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
         a.   The City shall make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this article or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this article;
         b.   Any person who violates this article shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00); and
         c.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   The Planning and Redevelopment Administrator or building official
shall inform the owner that any such violation is considered a wilful act to
increase flood damages and therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood
insurance policy to be suspended.
Nothing herein shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful action to
prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to
the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 018-2010, § 12, 3-15-2010)
Secs. 11-83 - 11-90. Reserved:
(Ord. 018-2010, § 14, 3-15-2010)
ARTICLE V. PRESERVATION OF HISTORICALLY OR ARCHITECTURALLY SIGNIFICANT PROPERTY
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 11-91. Statement Of Purpose:
The purpose of this article is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the community by:
      (1)   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the distinctive
historic, architectural, and/or landscape characteristics of Rock Island, which
represent elements of the City's cultural, social, economic, political and
architectural history;
      (2)   Fostering civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of
the past as represented in Rock Island's landmarks and historic districts;
      (3)   Stabilizing and improving the property value of Rock Island's
landmarks and historic areas;
      (4)   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration and
rehabilitation of our buildings; and
      (5)   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the City to its home
buyers, homeowners, residents, tourists, visitors, and shoppers, and thereby
supporting and promoting business, commerce, industry, and providing economic
benefit to the City. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-92. Definitions:
As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them,
except when the context demands otherwise:
   Alteration:
      (1)   Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of the structure, including, but not limited to, the
erection, construction, reconstruction or moving of any structure.
      (2)   Any act or process that, while not requiring a building permit,
significantly changes the exterior of a regulated structure so as to change one
or more features that relates to the regulated structure's status as a landmark
or contributing resource.
   Applicant: A person or entity submitting an application for issuance of a
Certificate of Appropriateness or a Certificate of Economic Hardship.
   Archeological Resource: Any material remains or physical evidence of past
human life or activities that are of archeological interest, including the
record of the effects of human activities on the environment. An archeological
resource may be capable of revealing scientific or humanistic information
through archeological research.
   Architectural Review Guidelines: A standard of design quality that will
preserve the historic and architectural character of a landmark or a structure
within a Locally Designated Historic District.
   Area: A specific geographic division of the City.
   Building: A house, commercial building, church, hotel, school, or similar
construction made to shelter any form of human activity.
   Certificate Of Appropriateness (COA): A certificate authorizing regulated
activity involving a regulated structure issued by the Preservation
Administrator pursuant to approval by the commission under the applicable
provisions of section
11-113  of this article.
   Certificate Of Economic Hardship (COEH): A certificate authorizing regulated
activity involving a regulated structure issued by the Preservation
Administrator pursuant to section 11-114 of this article, even though a
Certificate of Appropriateness previously has been denied.
   Certified Local Government (CLG): The Certified Local Government Program is
jointly administrated by the National Park Service and the Illinois Historic
Preservation Agency; the program certifies communities that have certain
requirements in establishing local historic preservation programs. Once
certified, communities gain access to grants and technical assistance to
implement their local preservation programs.
   Commission: Rock Island Preservation Commission.
   Commissioners: Voting members of the Rock Island Preservation Commission.
   Conservation Right: A term that includes easements, covenants, deed
restrictions or any other type of less than full fee simple interest that might
be used to protect a landmark or Locally Designated Historic District.
   Construction: The act of building or altering a structure.
   Contributing Resource: Any building, object, site, or structure that
contributes to understanding the architectural and historic development within
a Locally Designated or Nationally Designated Historic District. The
contributing resource usually retains a high level of integrity.
   Council: The City Council of the City of Rock Island.
   Cultural/Historic Resource: A cultural resource is an aspect of a cultural
system that is valued by or significantly representative of a culture or that
contains significant information if it is greater than fifty (50) years of age.
Cultural resources are categorized as districts, sites, buildings, structures,
and objects for the National Register of Historic Places. Archeological sites
are also considered cultural resources.
   Demolition: Any act or process which destroys in part or in whole a
cultural/historic resource.
   Design Review: The formal process of reviewing proposed projects seeking a
Certificate of Appropriateness from the Preservation Commission.
   District: A district possesses a significant concentration, linkage, or
continuity of buildings, sites, structures, or objects united historically or
architecturally by plan or physical development. A district derives its
importance from being a unified entity, even though it is often comprised of a
variety of resources.
   Locally Designated Historic District: An area designated as a "historic
district" by ordinance of the City Council, pursuant to the procedures
prescribed in division 3 of this article and subject to the regulations
therein.
   Nationally Designated Historic District: An area designated as a "historic
district" by being listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
   Exterior Architectural Appearance: The architectural character and general
composition of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
kind, color and texture of the building material and the type, design, and
character of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and appurtenant
elements.
   Integrity: The authenticity of a property's historic identity. The seven (7)
qualities of integrity as defined by the National Register of Historic Places
are location, setting, feeling, association, design, workmanship, and
materials.
   Inventory: A listing of properties evaluated as contributing or non-
contributing to a historic district or potentially eligible for local landmark
designation or for listing in the National Register of Historic Places.
Inventories are derived from field surveys.
   Landmark: A regulated structure that is designated as a "landmark" by
ordinance of the City Council, pursuant to procedures prescribed in division 3
of this article.
   Landscape: The area surrounding a landmark or structure within a historic
district. This shall include, but not be limited to, fences, statues, signs,
plantings, paving, and outbuildings, as well as landforms.
   National Register Of Historic Places (NRHP): The comprehensive list of
cultural resources significant in American history, architecture, archeology,
engineering, and culture. This list is maintained by the National Park Service
under authority of the National Preservation Act of 1966.
   Noncontributing Resource: Buildings, objects, sites, and structures that did
not exist at the time of the event(s) associated with a Locally or Nationally
Designated Historic District or have lost integrity from the district's period
of significance.
   Object: The term used to distinguish from buildings and structures those
constructions that are primarily artistic in nature or are relatively small in
scale. Objects may include a boundary marker, fountain, milepost, monument,
sculpture, or statuary.
   Owner(s) Of Record: The person(s), corporation, or other legal entity in
whose name(s) the property appears on the records of the County Recorder of
Deeds.
   Preservation: The act or process of applying measures to sustain the
existing form, integrity, and material of a historic building, site, structure,
or object. Preservation may also entail the act of designating a historic
resource a landmark, getting a historic resource on the National Register of
Historic Places, or establishing a Locally Designated Historic District.
   Preservation Administrator: An employee of the Community and Economic
Development Department that has been designated as the Administrator of this
article. This individual serves as Secretary to the Preservation Commission.
   Preservation Administrator Of The Interior's Standards: The "Preservation
Administrator of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for
Rehabilitating Historic Buildings", revised U.S. 1990, Department of the
Interior, National Park Service, Preservation Assistance Division, Washington,
D.C.
   Property: A distinct parcel of real property which is assigned a separate
tax parcel number by the County Supervisor of Assessments.
   Regulated Activity: Any act or process involving the construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, relocation, alteration, or demolition
of a regulated structure.
   Regulated Structure: Any property or structure that is subject to the
provisions of this article because it has been designated as a landmark or
because it is located within a Locally Designated Historic District.
   Rehabilitation: The process of returning a property to a state of utility,
through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient contemporary
use while preserving those portions and features of the property which are
significant to its historic, architectural, and cultural values.
   Relocation: Any repositioning of a structure on its site or moving it to
another site.
   Repair: Any change that does not require a building permit that is not
construction, relocation, or alteration.
   Replacement-In-Kind: The act of replacing or rebuilding a structural element
to correct the deterioration, decay of, or damage to a building, structure, or
site using the same material, construction, and dimensions. Replacement
material shall match the old both physically and visually. Replacement-in-kind
projects do not require a Certificate of Appropriateness, but the commission
shall be notified when a replacement-in-kind project is approved by the
Preservation Administrator at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
   Restoration: The process of returning a property to an approximate state of
its original construction and appearance or to a specific time period in
relation to its significance as a historic property.
   Site: The location of an important event, a prehistoric or historic
occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined,
or vanished, where the location itself possess historic, cultural, or
archeological value. Examples of sites include designed landscapes, parks,
natural features, ruins, or trails.
   State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO): State agency that manages and
administrates statewide preservation planning and cultural resource management
programs, including the National Register of Historic Places and the Certified
Local Government Program. In Illinois, the SHPO is the Illinois Historic
Preservation Agency.
   Structure: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
   Survey: A survey is a study designed to identify and evaluate properties in
a community, area or district to determine whether they may be of historic,
architectural, archeological, engineering or cultural significance. (Ord. 054-
2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-93. Penalties:
Any person, firm, or corporation who alters, demolishes, repairs, or relocates
any landmark or any structure within a Locally Designated Historic District
without complying with the provisions of this article shall be required to
restore the building or structure and its site to its appearance prior to the
violation. Any action to enforce this section shall be brought by the City
Attorney, their designee, or by designated representatives of the Department of
Community and Economic Development. This civil remedy shall be in addition to
and not in lieu of any criminal prosecution and penalty contained in this
section. If there is a willful violation of the provisions of this article, any
person, firm, or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such herein. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-94. Affirmation Of Existing Zoning:
Nothing contained in this article shall supersede the powers of other local
legislative or regulatory bodies or relieve any property owner of complying
with the requirements of any other State Statutes or Municipal ordinances or
regulations. Specifically, this article in no way modifies or negates existing
zoning in the City. Thus affirmation of existing zoning is not an approval of
that zoning, nor does it preclude amendments to zoning district boundaries or
categories of uses. The local zoning ordinance remains in effect unless
modified. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018)
Secs. 11-95-11-100. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Sec. 11-101. Created:
   (a)   Membership: There is hereby created the Rock Island Preservation
Commission, consisting of nine (9) voting members that are broadly
representative of the community, appointed by the Mayor of Rock Island and
approved by the City Council, and one ex officio nonvoting member, a
representative of the Department of Community and Economic Development. At
least one member of the commission shall be an attorney, one an architect, and
one shall be an active member of the Rock Island Preservation Society. Six (6)
commission members shall be appointed at large on the basis of expertise,
experience or interest in the areas of architectural history, building
construction or engineering, finance, historical and architectural
preservation, landscape architecture, geography, neighborhood organizing, or
real estate.
   (b)   Compensation: Commissioners shall serve without compensation.
   (c)   Terms: Commissioners shall serve terms of three (3) years. Initially,
Commissioners shall serve staggered terms of three (3) persons for three (3)
years, three (3) persons for two (2) years, and three (3) persons for one year.
Commissioners may serve only two (2) consecutive terms, but may be reappointed
after a one (1) year waiting period.
   (d)   Reserved:
   (e)   Preliminary Determination Subcommittee: Voting members of the
commission shall elect no less than three (3) commission members and two (2)
alternates to serve on a Preliminary Determination Subcommittee for the purpose
of conducting a preliminary review of applications for the nomination of a
landmark (see subsection
11-111 (b) of this article). The subcommittee shall:
   (1)   Elect a Chair of the subcommittee. The Chair shall be a voting member
of the Preservation Commission.
   (2)   Make a preliminary determination via a majority vote as to whether a
property, structure, or area meets one of the seven (7) criteria as defined in
subsection
11-111(b)(1) - (b)(7) of this article.
   (3)   Conduct its meetings a minimum of fourteen (14) days prior to the
proposed public hearing date of a proposed landmark.
   (4)   Serve for a period of one year and shall be eligible for reelection.
   (5)   Conform to the requirements of the Open Meetings Act.
   (6)   Serve without compensation.
   (7)   Take minutes of each Preliminary Determination Subcommittee meeting,
originals of which shall be kept in the Office of the Department of Community
and Economic Development. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018; amd. Ord. 35-2024, 5-20-
2024)
Sec. 11-102. Purpose:
The commission is created for the purpose of:
      (1)   Identifying such property, structures, or areas within the City
that are historically significant in that they exemplify and/or reflect the
cultural, social, economic, political, or architectural history of the Nation,
State, or City;
      (2)   Advising the City Council on the designation of such property,
structures or areas as either landmarks or historic districts, as defined
herein;
      (3)   Protecting the distinctive visual characteristics of landmarks or
Locally Designated Historic Districts by reviewing, giving advice and passing
upon changes to their exterior architectural appearances;
      (4)   Performing such other functions as may be useful or necessary to
safeguard and enhance the community heritage as embodied in property,
structures and areas; and
      (5)   Offering advice to owners of landmark property seeking guidance of
a technical nature, including architecture and design. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-
2018)
Sec. 11-103. Officers:
   (a)   Generally: Officers shall consist of a Chair and Vice Chair elected by
the commission who shall each serve a term of one year and shall be eligible
for reelection. Elections shall be held annually.
   (b)   Chair: The Chair shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the
Chair, the Vice Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair. If both are
absent, a temporary Chair shall be elected by those present.
   (c)   Preservation Administrator: The Preservation Administrator shall serve
as the Secretary of the commission and be a representative of the Department of
Community and Economic Development of the City. The Preservation Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Take minutes of each commission meeting, originals of which shall
be kept in the Office of Community and Economic Development and make these
available to the public;
      (2)   Provide administrative and technical assistance to the commission
to assist it in making the decisions and findings as provided herein;
      (3)   Publish and distribute to the Commissioners copies of the minutes,
reports and decisions of the commission;
      (4)   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the commission;
      (5)   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the commission and expiring terms
of Commissioners;
      (6)   Prepare and submit to the City Council a complete record of the
proceedings before the commission on all appeals from decisions of the
commission and also on any other matters requiring Council consideration; and
      (7)   The Preservation Administrator shall have no vote.
   (d)   Elections And Appointments:
      (1)   Election Of Officers: The commission shall elect officers at its
regular meeting during the month of April or the next regularly scheduled
meeting. The Chair may either appoint a nominating committee to nominate a
slate of candidates for presentation to the commission or hold open nominations
at the annual meeting. Voting shall be by the method deemed appropriate by the
majority of the commission members present. The order of election shall be the
Chair first and the Vice Chair next.
      (2)   Removal Of Officers: The commission may remove any officer after a
written statement signed by a majority of the current members and stating the
reasons for removal is formally filed with the commission and after a formal
hearing by the commission at which time said officer is afforded opportunity to
respond to such statement. Such hearing shall be held no later than five (5)
weeks after formal filing of the written statement and only after written
notice of the hearing has been given to all commission members at least two (2)
weeks in advance of such hearing. Such notice shall include a copy of the
statement of reasons for removal. Following such hearing said officer may be
removed only upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the commission members.
      (3)   Replacement Of Officers: In the event any office of the commission
becomes vacant, a replacement shall be elected at the next regular meeting to
serve the unexpired term of the vacated office.
      (4)   Temporary Absence Of Officers:
         a.   Temporary Appointments By Chair: In the event of the temporary
absence, disability, or disqualification of any officer, the Chair may appoint
other members to serve temporarily in their capacity and to assume during such
temporary period all the powers and duties of such officers as may be
immediately necessary to carry out the duties of that office.
         b.   Temporary Appointments By The Commission: In the event that the
Chair and the Vice-Chair of the commission should be absent or unable for any
reason to attend to the duties of their office, the members of the commission
may at any regular meeting or special meeting called for that purpose, appoint
a Chair Pro-Tem or a Vice-Chair Pro Tem, as the case may be, who shall attend
to all the duties of such officer until such officer shall return to be able to
attend to their duties. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-104. Meetings:
   (a)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the voting members of the
commission.
   (b)   Designation of landmarks and Locally Designated Historic Districts as
herein provided shall require six (6) affirmative votes by the commission. All
other decisions or actions of the commission shall be made by a majority vote
of those members present at any meeting where a quorum exists.
   (c)   Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times to be established
by resolution of the commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at
any time upon the call of the Chair. There shall be a minimum of six (6)
meetings per year.
   (d)   No Commissioner shall vote on any matter which materially or
apparently may affect the property, income or business interest of that
Commissioner.
   (e)   All meetings shall conform to the requirements of the Open Meetings
Act.
   (f)   No action shall be taken by the commission which in any manner could
deprive or restrict the owner of that property in its use, modification,
maintenance, disposition or demolition until such owner first shall have had
the opportunity to be heard at public meeting(s) of the commission, as provided
herein.
   (g)   The Preservation Administrator or delegate thereof has the authority
to review and approve applications involving the replacement-in-kind of
structural elements, but the commission shall be notified when a replacement-
in-kind project is approved by the Preservation Administrator at the next
regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-105. Vacancies:
The seat of any voting member of the commission who fails to attend three (3)
consecutive meetings without a valid reason, or who fails to attend one-half
(1/2) of all meetings scheduled or called during any one year period shall be
declared vacant. Any vacancy on the commission shall be filled in the same
manner as for original appointments to the commission. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-
2018)
Sec. 11-106. Powers And Duties:
The commission shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To adopt its own procedural regulations.
      (2)   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify Rock Island's historically
and architecturally significant properties, structures and areas, including
landscapes and archeological areas.
      (3)   To investigate, hold public hearings, and recommend to the City
Council the adoption of ordinances designating certain Rock Island sites or
structures having special historic, community or architectural value as
landmarks.
      (4)   To investigate, hold public hearings and recommend the adoption of
ordinances designating certain Rock Island areas as having special historic,
community, architectural or archeological value as Locally Designated Historic
Districts.
      (5)   To keep a register of all property and structures which have been
designated under this article, including all information required for each
designation.
      (6)   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make
recommendations for the design and implementation of specific markings of the
streets and routes leading from one landmark or historic district to another.
      (7)   To advise and assist owners of landmarks and property or structures
within Locally Designated Historic Districts on physical and financial aspects
of preservation, renovation, rehabilitation and reuse, and on procedures for
inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places.
      (8)   To nominate landmarks and historic districts to the National
Register of Historic Places.
      (9)   To inform and educate the citizens of Rock Island concerning the
historic and architectural heritage of the City.
      (10)   To hold public hearings and to review building permit applications
for new construction within Locally Designated Historic Districts and for
additions to, alterations, removal or demolition of landmarks or structures
within Locally Designated Historic Districts, and to issue or deny Certificates
of Appropriateness for such actions. Applicants may be required to submit
plans, drawings, specifications, and other information as may be necessary to
make decisions.
      (11)   To develop criteria for the alteration, construction or removal of
landmarks or property and structures within Locally Designated Historic
Districts.
      (12)   To review proposed zoning amendments, applications for special
uses, or applications for zoning variances that affect designated landmarks and
Locally Designated Historic Districts. The Planning Administrator shall send
applications for special use or zoning variances to the commission for comment
prior to the date of the hearing by the Planning Commission, the Board of
Zoning Appeals, or the City Council. The Preservation Commission shall review
the special use or zoning variance request at a regular meeting. The
Preservation Commission's comment on the request shall be noted in the meeting
minutes to be transmitted to the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals,
or City Council for their review and consideration.
      (13)   To accept and administer on behalf of the City, upon designation
by the City Council, such gifts, grants and money as may be appropriate for the
purposes of this article.
      (14)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the
Planning Commission, the Housing Code Board of Appeals, the Building Code Board
of Appeals and the Board of Zoning Appeals on any matter affecting historically
or architecturally significant property, structures and areas.
      (15)   To confer recognition upon the owners of landmarks or property or
structures within historic districts by means of certificates, plaques or
markers.
      (16)   To develop a preservation component in the Comprehensive Plan of
the City and to recommend it to the Planning Commission and the City Council.
      (17)   To review periodically the Rock Island zoning ordinance and to
recommend to the Planning Commission and the City Council any amendments
appropriate for the protection and continued use of landmarks or property and
structures within Locally Designated Historic Districts.
      (18)   To assist owners of landmark structures or contributing structures
within certified historic districts to receive certification for repairs and
alterations so that the owner will qualify for investment tax credit.
      (19)   To undertake any other action or activity necessary or appropriate
to the implementation of its powers and duties or to implementation of the
purpose of this article. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018)
Secs. 11-107-11-110. Reserved:
DIVISION 3. PROCEDURES
Sec. 11-111. Landmark Designation:
   (a)   Nomination: Nominations shall be made to the commission on an
application form provided by the Preservation Administrator. Said application
shall be accompanied by a filing fee to cover the costs associated with
processing the application and legal notification. Should the application be
withdrawn prior to publication of legal notice thereon, such fee will be
returned upon the written request of the applicant. Nomination applications
shall include the following information:
      (1)   Property address of proposed landmark.
      (2)   Name and address of applicant.
If an application is determined to be incomplete by the Preliminary
Determination Subcommittee, the applicant may withdraw the nomination in order
to resubmit a complete application.
   (b)   Criteria: The commission shall consider the following criteria when
determining whether to designate a landmark or Locally Designated Historic
District. It shall be the responsibility of the nominator(s) to provide
evidence of suitability for landmark or Locally Designated Historic District
status as well as documentation of the evidence.
      (1)   Significant value as part of the historic, cultural, artistic,
social, ethnic, or other heritage of the Nation, State or community.
      (2)   Associated with an important person or event in national, State or
local history.
      (3)   Representative of the distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural and/or landscape type inherently valuable for the study of a
period, style, craftsmanship, method of construction or use of indigenous
materials and which retains a high degree of integrity.
      (4)   Notable work of a master builder, designer, architect or artist
whose individual genius has influenced an era.
      (5)   Identifiable as an established and familiar visual feature in the
community owing to its unique location or physical characteristics.
      (6)   Its character as a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including, but not limited to, farmhouses, gas stations
or other commercial structures with a high level of integrity or architectural
significance.
      (7)   Areas that have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information
important in history or prehistory.
The preliminary determination as to whether a property, structure or area meets
one or more of the foregoing criteria shall be made within sixty (60) days of
the filing of a nomination with the commission. A filing fee shall be paid by
the applicant after a preliminary determination of significance has been made
by the commission.
   (c)   Notification: Within ten (10) days following a preliminary
determination that a proposed landmark meets one or more of the criteria in
subsection (b) of this section, the commission shall so notify by certified
mail the owner(s) of record. The notice shall be accompanied by an owner
consent form requesting the property owner(s) to provide written approval or
disapproval of the proposed designation, provided that owner approval shall not
be required for historic landmark designation. Failure of an owner of record to
return the form shall be noted as such.
   (d)   Public Hearing: The commission shall schedule a public hearing within
forty five (45) days following a preliminary determination that a proposed
landmark meets one or more of the criteria in subsection (b) of this section.
      (1)   Notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be sent by mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s), as well as
to the adjoining property owners, not less than fifteen (15) nor more than
thirty five (35) days prior to the date of the hearing. A like notice also
shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the City. The
notice shall state the location of the property and a brief statement
summarizing how the proposed landmark meets the criteria set forth in
subsection (b) of this section. The Inspection Division and the Planning
Division of the City also shall be notified.
      (2)   At the public hearing, the commission shall take testimony
presented by the nominator(s), the owner(s), and any other interested parties
who wish to be heard on the application of the criteria for designation
enumerated in subsection (b) of this section to the proposed landmark. In
addition, the commission shall consider all written comments received by the
commission prior to the hearing. It shall be the responsibility of the
nominator(s) to provide evidence of suitability for landmark status as well as
documentation of the evidence.
      (3)   The commission shall review and evaluate all available information
according to the applicable criteria set forth in subsection (b) of this
section.
   (e)   Decision: A decision shall be made within thirty five (35) days
following the date of the closing of the public hearing.
      (1)   If the commission decides after the hearing that the proposed
landmark should be designated, it shall do so by a resolution passed by a two-
thirds (2/3) majority of the commission (that is, 6 Commissioners). Failure by
an owner of record to return the form shall be noted as such.
      (2)   The commission's decision shall be in writing and shall be
accompanied by a report summarizing the evidence presented at the hearing and
explaining the decision. The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a
letter containing a copy of the decision.
      (3)   The Preservation Administrator shall send a copy of the resolution
and the accompanying report to the City Council.
      (4)   The Preservation Administrator shall send a copy of the resolution
to the nominator(s).
      (5)   The Preservation Administrator shall send a copy of the resolution
to the Inspection Division.
      (6)   The Preservation Administrator shall record the designation with
the County Recorder of Deeds, unless an appeal is filed in accordance with the
procedures contained herein.
      (7)   A decision by the commission denying landmark designation shall be
the final administrative decision. No application relating to the same property
may be filed during the twelve (12) months following such a denial by the
commission.
   (f)   Appeal: A decision by the commission granting landmark designation may
be appealed to the City Council by an owner of the subject property. Such an
appeal must be filed in writing with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days
after the commission's decision to grant landmark designation. If an appeal is
not filed within such time, the designation of the commission shall be the
final administrative decision.
(1) The City Council, at the earliest possible City Council meeting following
the filing of a written appeal, shall accept or reject the commission's
decision. In reviewing the commission's decision the Council may consider other
relevant factors, including economic considerations, not considered by the
commission. Rejection of the commission's decision requires a two-thirds (2/3)
vote of the entire Council.
      (2)   If the commission's decision is reversed, the City Clerk shall
provide written notification by regular mail to the nominator(s) and owner(s)
of record of the designated landmark of the action taken by the City Council.
The Inspection Division shall be notified of the City Council action. If the
designation is affirmed, said designation shall be recorded at the Office of
the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (g)   Subsequent Alterations Subject To Certificate: A Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be required for alteration, construction, removal or
demolition of a proposed landmark from the date when the nomination form is
presented to the commission until the final disposition of the petition.
               (h)   Amendment Or Rescission Of Designation: Designation may be
amended or rescinded by the same procedure and according to the same criteria
set forth herein for designation. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-112. Historic District Designation:
   (a)   Nomination: Nominations shall be made on a form provided by the
Preservation Administrator. Said application shall be accompanied by a filing
fee to cover the costs associated with processing the application and legal
notification. Should the application be withdrawn prior to publication of legal
notice thereon, such fee will be returned upon the written request of the
applicant. Nominations must be accompanied by a petition signed by twenty five
percent (25%) of the owners of record within a proposed Locally Designated
Historic District.
   (b)   Criteria: The commission shall consider the following criteria when
determining whether an area merits historic district designation. It shall be
the responsibility of the nominator(s) to provide evidence of suitability for
Locally Designated Historic District status as well as documentation of the
evidence.
      (1)   A significant number of structures meeting any of the standards in
subsection 11-111(b) of this division are located within the proposed
boundaries.
      (2)   A traditional Rock Island neighborhood, commercial area, or public
activity center is within the proposed boundaries.
      (3)   An area of sufficient integrity to convey a sense of time and
place.
The preliminary determination as to whether an area meets these guidelines or
criteria shall be made within sixty (60) days of the filing of the nomination
of such area to the commission. A filing fee plus the cost of postage to
affected and neighboring properties (determined at time of application) shall
be paid by the applicant after a preliminary determination of significance has
been made by the commission.
   (c)   Notice Of Proposed Designation: Within ten (10) days following a
preliminary determination that a proposed historic district meets one or more
of the criteria in subsection (b) of this section, the commission shall so
notify by mail the owner(s) of record. The notice shall be accompanied by an
owner consent form requesting the property owner(s) to provide written approval
or disapproval of the proposed designation. In the case of a Locally Designated
Historic District, the owner(s) of record of any property in the proposed
district shall have one vote on the approval or disapproval of the designation
for each property owned in the proposed district. For purposes of this
subsection, "property" shall be defined as a distinct parcel of real property
which is assigned a separate tax parcel number by the County Supervisor of
Assessments. Joint or multiple owners of property shall not be entitled to
separate votes, but shall jointly receive one vote for each property owned in
the proposed district. Failure of an owner of record to return the form with
their approval or disapproval by the date of the public hearing provided for
herein shall be noted as such. Approval of at least fifty one percent (51%) of
those owners of record who have returned the form by the date of the public
hearing shall be required for the historic district to be considered for
designation by the commission.
   (d)   Hearing: The commission shall schedule a public hearing within forty
five (45) days following a preliminary determination that a proposed Locally
Designated Historic District meets one or more of the criteria in subsections
(b) and (c) of this section.
      (1)   Notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be sent by mail to the owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s), as
well as to the owners of property adjoining the proposed district, not less
than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty five (35) days prior to the date of the
hearing. A like notice shall also be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the City. The notice shall state the location of a proposed
district and a brief statement summarizing how the proposed historic district
meets the criteria set forth in subsection (b) of this section. The Inspection
Division and the Planning Division of the City shall also be notified.
      (2)   At the public hearing, the commission shall take testimony
presented by the nominator(s), the owner(s), and any other interested parties
who wish to be heard on the application of the criteria for designation
enumerated in subsection (b) of this section to the proposed district. In
addition, the commission shall consider all written comments received by the
commission prior to the hearing. It shall be the responsibility of the
nominator(s) to provide evidence of suitability for historic district status as
well as documentation of the evidence.
      (3)   The commission shall review and evaluate available information
according to the applicable criteria set forth in subsection (b) of this
section.
   (e)   Decision: A decision shall be made within thirty five (35) days
following the date of the closing of the public hearing.
(1) If the commission decides after the hearing that the proposed historic
district should be designated, it shall do so by a resolution passed by a two-
thirds (2/3) majority of the commission (that is, 6 Commissioners).
      (2)   The commission's decision shall be in writing and shall be
accompanied by a report summarizing the evidence presented at the hearing and
explaining the decision.
      (3)   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing a copy of the decision.
      (4)   The Preservation Administrator shall send a copy of the resolution
and the accompanying report to the City Council.
      (5)   The Preservation Administrator shall send a copy of the resolution
to the nominator(s).
      (6)   The Preservation Administrator shall send a copy of the resolution
to the Inspection Division.
      (7)   The Preservation Administrator shall record the designation with
the County Recorder of Deeds, unless an appeal is filed in accordance with the
procedures contained herein.
      (8)   A decision by the commission denying historic district designation
shall be the final administrative decision. No application relating to the same
specific district may be filed during the twelve (12) months following such a
denial by the commission.
   (f)   Appeals: A decision by the commission granting historic district
designation may be appealed to the City Council by an owner of record of
property in the Locally Designated Historic District. Such an appeal must be
filed in writing with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days after the
commission's decision to grant Locally Designated Historic District
designation. If an appeal is not filed within such time, the designation of the
commission shall be the final administrative decision.
      (1)   An appeal shall be considered at the earliest possible City Council
meeting. The Council shall accept or reject the commission's decision. In
reviewing the commission's decision the Council may consider other relevant
factors, including economic considerations, not considered by the commission.
Rejection requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the entire Council.
      (2)   If the commission decision is reversed, the City Clerk shall
provide written notification by mail to the nominator(s) and owner(s) of record
of the Locally Designated Historic District. The Inspection Division shall be
notified of the City Council action. If the designation is affirmed, said
designation shall be recorded with the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (g)   Subsequent Alteration Subject To Certificate: A Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be required for alteration, construction, removal or
demolition of a structure within a proposed Locally Designated Historic
District from the date when the nomination forms are submitted to the
commission for the purpose of making a preliminary determination that a
proposed historic district meets one or more of the criteria outlined in
subsection (b) of this section until the final disposition of the petition.
   (h)   Amendment: Designation may be amended by the same procedure and
according to the same criteria set forth herein for designation. (Ord. 054-
2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-113. Certificates Of Appropriateness:
   (a)   Applicability: A Certificate of Appropriateness shall be required
before the following actions affecting the exterior architectural appearance of
any landmark or any regulated structure may be undertaken.
      (1)   Any alteration, construction, or relocation requiring a building
permit from the City.
      (2)   Any alteration, construction, or relocation, or replacement of
windows or doors, colored, leaded, etched or beveled glass, fencing or walls,
and signs.
      (3)   Any demolition in whole or in part requiring a permit from the
City.
      (4)   No Certificate of Appropriateness shall be required for change in
exterior paint scheme or colors, installation of or change in window air
conditioners, installation of or change in television satellites, or ordinary
repair or maintenance of existing architectural features which does not change
the basic structural appearance of the building.
      (5)   The Preservation Administrator is expressly authorized to issue
Certificates of Appropriateness of in-kind replacement of materials with like
materials.
   (b)   Application: Applications for Certificates of Appropriateness shall be
made to the commission on a form provided by the Preservation Administrator.
Applicants may request a consultation meeting with the commission prior to the
review meeting where the commission makes its determination.
   (c)   Emergency Circumstances: If the emergency circumstances affect a
landmark or a structure within a historic district which requires immediate
relief, repair or demolition, the Fire Marshal or chief building inspector
shall certify that such conditions exist and said conditions shall be
eliminated as quickly as is practicable. "Emergencies" are defined as life or
health threatening conditions requiring immediate attention. This subsection
shall apply only in cases where it is impractical for the commission to
consider an application for a Certificate of Appropriateness. In the event that
the Fire Marshal or chief building inspector shall require exterior alterations
in an existing use to conform to Life Safety or other codes, a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be required, provided in the event irreconcilable
conflicts arise between such codes and this article, permission to conform to
those codes must be granted even if a Certificate of Appropriateness would not
ordinarily be issued.
   (d)   Architectural Review Guidelines: In making a determination whether to
issue or deny a Certificate of Appropriateness, the commission shall consider,
among other things, the effect of the proposed construction, alteration,
removal or demolition upon the exterior architectural features and upon the
historic, aesthetic or architectural value, characteristics and significance of
the landmark or of the Locally Designated Historic District. The criteria to be
used by the commission in making its determination shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   The maintenance of the significant original qualities or character
of the structure or property including, if significant, its landscape. The
removal or alteration of any historic or distinctive architectural features
should be avoided when possible.
      (2)   The compatibility of proposed new additions and new construction to
the original architecture of the landmark or styles within the Locally
Designated Historic District shall be evaluated against the following general
guidelines:
         a.   Height: The height of the proposed structure or additions or
alterations should be compatible with surrounding structures.
         b.   Proportions Of Structure's Front Facade: The proportion between
the width and height of the proposed structure should be compatible with nearby
structures.
         c.   Proportions Of Openings Into The Facility: The proportions and
relationships between doors and windows should be compatible with existing
structures.
         d.   Relationship Of Building Masses And Spaces: The relationship of a
structure to the open space between it and adjoining structures should be
compatible.
         e.   Roof Shapes: The design of the roof should be compatible with
adjoining structures.
         f.   Landscape And Appurtenances: Landscaping and the use of
appurtenances should be sensitive to the individual structure, its occupants
and their needs. Further, the landscape treatment should be compatible with
surrounding structures and landscapes.
         g.   Scale Of Structure: The scale of the structure should be
compatible with surrounding structures.
         h.   Directional Expression Of Front Elevation: Street facades should
blend with other structures with regard to directional expression. When
adjacent structures have a dominant horizontal or vertical expression, this
should be carried over and reflected.
         i.   Architectural Details: Architectural details and materials should
be incorporated as necessary to relate the new with the old and to preserve and
enhance the inherent characteristics of that area.
      (3)   Alterations should be made in accordance with the Preservation
Administrator of the Interior's "Standards for Historic Preservation Projects"
and other guidelines that may be developed and used by the commission for
Certificate of Appropriateness review purposes as revised from time to time:
         a.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a compatible use
for a property which requires minimal alteration of the building, structure or
site and its environment, or to use a property for its originally intended
purpose.
         b.   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a building,
structure or site and its environment shall not be destroyed. The removal or
alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectural features
should be avoided when possible.
         c.   All buildings, structures and sites shall be recognized as
products of their own time. Alterations that have no historical basis and which
seek to create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged.
         d.   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are
evidence of the history and development of a building, structure or site and
its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own
right, and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
         e.   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled
craftsmanship which characterize a building, structure or site shall be treated
with sensitivity.
         f.   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced, wherever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material should match the material being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on accurate duplications of features,
substantiated by historic, physical or pictorial evidence rather than on
conjectural designs or the availability of different architectural elements
from other buildings or structures.
         g.   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage the historic building materials shall not be undertaken.
         h.   Every reasonable effort shall be made to protect and preserve
archeological resources affected by or adjacent to any project.
         i.   Contemporary design for alterations and additions to existing
properties shall not be discouraged when such alterations and additions do not
destroy significant historical, architectural or cultural material and such
design is compatible with the size, scale, color, material and character of the
property, neighborhood or environment.
         j.   Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to structures
shall be done in such manner that if such additions or alterations were to be
removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the structure would
be unimpaired.
   (e)   Review Process:
      (1)   If the commission finds that the work proposed in the application
will not adversely affect any historically or architecturally significant
features of the landmark or structure or property within a Locally Designated
Historic District and is appropriate or consistent with the spirit and purposes
of this article, it shall authorize, by a majority vote, the Preservation
Administrator to issue a Certificate of Appropriateness and forward copies to
the applicant and the Inspection Division.
      (2)   If the commission finds that the proposed work will adversely
affect or destroy any significant historic, aesthetic or architectural feature
or value of the landmark or structure or property within a Locally Designated
Historic District or is inappropriate or inconsistent with the spirit and
purposes of this article, it shall deny the application by a majority and shall
so direct the Preservation Administrator to notify the applicant within ten
(10) days of the decision.
         a.   The commission shall state briefly its reasons therefor in
writing and it may make recommendations to the applicant with respect to the
appropriateness of design, arrangement, texture, scale, material, color,
location or other elements of appearance of the building or structure involved.
         b.   In cases of disapproval accompanied by recommendation, the
applicant may be heard again before the commission if within sixty (60) days of
the date of receipt of notice of disapproval of the application they amend
their application to conform to the recommendations or makes application for a
Certificate of Economic Hardship as provided for in section
11-114 of this division. The applicant shall be heard at the next regular
meeting of the commission after receipt of the amended application and the
commission shall approve or disapprove the amended application by resolution
passed by a majority vote.
         c.   At the request of the applicant, within fifteen (15) days
following disapproval of an application, the commission shall hold a public
hearing. The commission shall also hold a public hearing upon receipt of an
application for a Certificate of Economic Hardship pursuant to section
11-114 of this division.
         d.   Notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be sent by regular mail to the applicant, to property owners within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property for which an application has been
made, and said notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation.
The notice shall be sent not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the
hearing. The notice shall state the location, including the common street
address of the property and a brief description of the proposed alteration for
which an application has been made and the differences of opinion between the
applicant and the commission.
         e.   At the public hearing the commission shall take testimony
presented by the owner(s) and any other interested parties concerning the
effect of the proposed alteration, demolition or removal upon the exterior
architectural features and the review criteria in subsection (d) of this
section.
         f.   Within fifteen (15) days following completion of the public
hearing, the commission shall issue or deny the Certificate of Appropriateness
or Certificate of Economic Hardship and transmit copies of its decision to the
applicant. (Ord. 054-2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-114. Certificate Of Economic Hardship:
   (a)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this article to the contrary,
the commission may issue a Certificate of Economic Hardship to allow the
perform of work for which a Certificate of Appropriateness has been denied.
   (b)   Applicants claiming economic hardship shall be required to apply to
the Redevelopment Division to determine eligibility for rehabilitation
assistance. The eligibility for and availability of financial aid shall be
considered by the commission in making its decision.
   (c)   An applicant for a Certificate of Economic Hardship may submit any or
all of the following information in order to assist the commission in making
its determination on the application:
      (1)   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the
party from whom purchased (including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner and the person from whom the property was purchased).
      (2)   The assessed value of the land and improvements thereon according
to the two (2) most recent assessments.
      (3)   Real Estate Taxes for the previous two (2) years.
      (4)   Remaining balance on mortgage, if any, and annual debt service, if
any, for the previous two (2) years.
      (5)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the
owner or applicant in connection with their purchase, financing or ownership of
the property.
      (6)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any.
      (7)   Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive uses for
the property.
      (8)   If the property is income producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two (2) years, itemized operating and maintenance
expenses for the previous two (2) years, and annual cash flow before and after
debt service, if any during the same period.
      (9)   Form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture or other.
      (10)   Evidence of any substantial decrease in fair market value,
unfavorable tax impact, or additional cost of work resulting from the denial of
a COA.
      (11)   In the case of a proposed demolition, the economic feasibility of
rehabilitation or reuse.
      (12)   Any other information, including the Income Tax bracket of the
owner, applicant or principal investors in the property, reasonably necessary
for a determination as to whether the property can be reasonably used or yield
a reasonable return to present or future owners.
   (d)   If the commission finds that without approval of the proposed work,
the property cannot obtain a reasonable economic return therefrom, then the
application shall be delayed for a period not to exceed three (3) months.
During this period of delay, the commission shall investigate plans and make
recommendations to the City Council to allow for a reasonably beneficial use or
a reasonable economic return, or to otherwise preserve the subject property.
Such plans and recommendations may include, but not be limited to, a relaxation
of the provisions of this article, a reduction in Real Property Taxes,
financial assistance, Building Code modifications and/or changes in zoning
regulations.
   (e)   If by the end of this three (3) month period, the commission has found
that without approval of the proposed work, the property cannot be put to a
reasonable beneficial use or the owner cannot obtain a reasonable economic
return therefrom, then the commission shall issue a Certificate of Economic
Hardship approving the proposed work. If the commission finds otherwise, it
shall deny the application for a Certificate of Economic Hardship. (Ord. 054-
2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 11-115. Appeals:
   (a)   When a Certificate of Appropriateness or a Certificate of Economic
Hardship is approved or denied for either a landmark or a structure within a
historic district, the applicant or any interested party may, within thirty
(30) days, appeal the commission's decision to the City Council. The Council
may receive comments on the contents of the record but no new matter may be
considered by the Council. The City Council may affirm the decision or
recommend changes by a majority vote of the Council after due consideration of
the facts contained in the record submitted to the Council by the commission.
The Council may overturn the commission's decision by a majority vote of a
quorum of the Council. If the Council decides that a Certificate of Economic
Hardship should be issued, the Preservation Administrator shall notify the
applicant and the Inspection Division within seven (7) days of the Council's
decision and the Inspection Division then shall issue the permit within fifteen
(15) days.
   (b)   If the Council concurs with the commission's decision not to issue a
Certificate of Economic Hardship, the Preservation Administrator shall notify
the applicant and the Inspection Division within seven (7) days. (Ord. 054-
2018, 9-24-2018)
Secs. 11-116-11-120. Reserved:
ARTICLE VI. ENTERPRISE ZONE
Sec. 11-121. Boundaries:
The City designates as an enterprise zone the real estate included within the
boundaries as described in exhibit A, as attached hereto and incorporated
herein (but not reproduced at length in this Code). (Ord. 84-67, 12-17-1984;
Ord. 84-84, 2-25-1985; Ord. 86-04, 2-24-1986; Ord. 86-19, 4-28-1986; Ord. 93-
69, 7-12-1993; Ord. 93-70, 7-12-1993; Ord. 95-37, 5-15-1995; Ord. 97-74, 8-11-
1997; Ord. 97-79, 9-15-1997; Ord. 57-2004, 5-10-2004; Ord. 062-2005, 8-8-2005;
Ord. 052-2006, 7-24-2006; Ord. 038-2007, 5-21-2007; Ord. 058-2013, 10-21-2013;
Ord. 059-2013, 10-21-2013; Ord. 022-2016, 5-2-2016; Ord. 046-2020, § 1, 9-14-
2020)
Sec. 11-122. Findings:
The City does now declare and find that the enterprise zone as above described
meets the qualifications of 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 655/4 in that the
area is a contiguous area, compromises a minimum one-half (1/2) square mile,
not more than ten (10) square miles in total area, exclusive of lakes and
waterways, is a depressed area, is entirely within the Municipality and
satisfies all additional criteria established by regulation of the Department
of Commerce and Community Affairs consistent with the purposes of the Illinois
Enterprise Zone Act. (Ord. 84-67, 12-17-1984; Ord. 022-2016, § 4, 5-2-2016;
Ord. 046-2020, § 2, 9-14-2020)
Sec. 11-123. Zone Administrator:
   (a)   The position of Zone Administrator is hereby created. It shall be the
responsibility of the Zone Administrator to:
      (1)   Supervise the implementation of the provisions of this
intergovernmental agreement and the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act;
      (2)   Act as a liaison between the Cities, the County, the Village, and
the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. Designated Zone
Organizations, and other state, federal and local agencies, whether public or
private;
      (3)   Conduct an ongoing evaluation of the enterprise zone program and
submit such evaluative reports on at least an annual basis to the Zone
Management Board;
      (4)   Promote the coordination of other relevant programs, including, but
not limited to. housing, community and economic development, small business,
financial assistance and employment training within the enterprise zone;
      (5)   Recommend qualified Designated Zone Organizations to the Management
Board:
      (6)   Have the authority to appoint personnel as appropriate to assure
the smooth operation of the enterprise zone.
   (b)   The Zone Administrator will be responsible for the duties and tasks
listed below. To accomplish these duties and tasks, the Zone Administrator will
appoint an Assistant Zone Administrator who will receive technical and
professional support from an Economic Development Committee consisting of
professionals whose organizations have active and ongoing economic development
programs within the enterprise zone.
   (c)   Duties of Assistant Zone Administrator:
      (1)   To develop and recommend a comprehensive planning program for the
enterprise zone:
      (2)   To establish and chair an Economic Development Committee that will
serve as the primary technical and professional vehicle for triggering the
implementation of the enterprise zone program objectives;
      (3)   To examine and recommend local incentives, benefits, and programs
to accomplish stated objectives to stimulate economic activity in the
enterprise zone and to address impediments to capital investments;
      (4)   To develop and analyze social, physical and economic data regarding
population trends, labor force, land use patterns, size, type and status of
existing commercial, industrial and manufacturing facilities and capacity
within the enterprise zone, infrastructure availability and condition, and
other factors pertaining to community planning, and to recommend planning-
related actions;
      (5)   To recommend necessary legislative and administrative controls for
guiding enterprise zone development, including planned capital improvement;
      (6)   To review supportive planning studies and reports to insure
technical proficiency;
      (7)   To coordinate planning activities and program implementation with
other county and/or city departments and department programs;
      (8)   To act as a liaison between the Cities of Moline, East Moline. Rock
Island Silvis, the County of Rock Island, and the Village of Milan and any
Designated Zone Organizations, the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity, any Federal agency, and any local planning groups in support of
the enterprise zone program and plan;
      (9)   To collect and analyze data and submit reports required by the
Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity on a timely basis;
      (10)   To conduct an ongoing evaluation of the enterprise zone program
and submit such evaluative reports on at least an annual basis to the Zone
Management Board;
      (11)   To act as program manager responsible for the enterprise zone’s
day-to-day operation.
   (d)   Criteria and Process for Selecting Assistant Zone Administrator: The
Board Chairman will select an individual currently employed by one of the
Cities, the County or the Village to assume the duties and tasks of the
Assistant Zone Administrator in addition to his or her current job
responsibilities. The individual will meet the following minimum job
requirements set by the Enterprise Zone Administrator:
      (1)   He or she shall be a current employee of one of the Cities, the
County or the Village;
      (2)   He or she shall have a minimum of three (3) years experience in the
economic development:
      (3)   He or she shall have a thorough working knowledge of the economic
development programs and incentives available at the Federal. State, and local
levels;
   (e)   Economic Development Committee: The following activities have been
identified as the initial program of work for the Economic Development
Committee:
      (1)   To identify available sites for locating new businesses and prepare
documentation with specifics on each site;
      (2)   To identify vacant and underused buildings available for business
and industrial use and prepare documentation with specifics on each building;
      (3)   To market available sites and buildings to attract new business
and/or induce expansion of business and industry within the enterprise zone;
      (4)   To work with the units of government to identify tax reverted
property for homesteading and shopsteading;
      (5)   To work with area and state organizations to promote tourism in the
Quad City area;
      (6)   To encourage modifications in county and city zoning and building
standards as appropriate to further the purposes of the enterprise zone plan;
      (7)   To examine and recommend local incentives and programs to
accomplish enterprise zone program objectives;
      (8)   To hold educational forums and programs for enterprise zone
businesses and residents to explain and promote program benefits and
incentives;
      (9)   To coordinate enterprise zone development planning and
implementation with other relevant programs, including, but not limited to
housing, community and economic development, small business, financial
assistance and employment training within the enterprise zone;
      (10)   To coordinate with business and industry to identify State
regulations or restrictions that adversely affect economic development within
the enterprise zone and relay this information to the Illinois Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity to aid in easing the regulations and
restrictions;
      (11)   To provide opportunities for business, labor, neighborhood
associations and zone residents to participate in the development of zone
programs sponsored by any Designated Zone Organization;
      (12)   To coordinate available and future economic development incentives
within the enterprise zone by networking with professionals, developers and
realtors and maintaining contact with previous plant locations as well as
prospects;
      (13)   To assist businesses and enterprise zone residents in receiving
available local, State, or Federal economic development incentives and
benefits;
      (14)   To participate in the development and implementation of a business
retention program. (Ord. 84-67, 12-17-1984; Ord. 84-84, 2-25-1985; Ord. 022-
2016, § 11, 5-2-2016)
Sec. 11-124. Role Of Community Development Department:
The City will direct and target business assistance and business retention
programs through its Community Development Department. The Zone Administrator
will assume the lead role in coordinating the delivery of existing programs and
services and the establishment of new programs and services to address the
needs of the zone. (Ord. 84-67, 12-17-1984)
Sec. 11-125. Designated Zone Organizations:
The Zone Administrator shall recommend to the City Council one or more
organizations that qualify as designated zone organizations under the
provisions of the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act. Upon approval of the City
Council, for a term of years set by the City Council, the organization may:
      (1)   Provide or contract for provision of services including, but not
limited to, crime watch patrols within zone neighborhoods; volunteer daycare
centers; or other types of public services as provided by ordinance or
regulation and as provided for in section 8 of the Illinois Enterprise Zone
Act;
      (2)   Provide a forum for business, labor and government action on
enterprise zone innovations;
      (3)   Receive title to publicly owned land;
      (4)   Solicit and receive contributions to improve the quality of life in
the zone area; and
      (5)   Perform such other functions as the City Council may deem
appropriate, not inconsistent with the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act. (Ord. 84-
67, 12-17-1984)
Sec. 11-126. Land Acquisition And Clearance:
The City shall provide technical assistance with commercial and industrial land
acquisition and clearance activities which may be proposed to occur within the
enterprise zone. (Ord. 84-67, 12-17-1984)
Sec. 11-127. "One Stop" Development Review:
The city will establish a "one stop" development review process for commercial
and industrial projects such that the community development department would
secure the review and approval of all other city departments. (Ord. 84-67, 12-
17-1984)
Sec. 11-128. Certain Fees Waived:
   (a)   The city hereby waives application fees for industrial development
revenue bond proposals for projects which will be located within the enterprise
zone.
   (b)   The city hereby waives application fees for commercial and industrial
zoning changes of board of zoning appeal authorizations for projects which will
be located within the enterprise zone. (Ord. 84-67, 12-17-1984)
Sec. 11-129. Priority Given To Certain Loan Applications:
The city shall give priority to fundable projects within the enterprise zone
for applications to the commercial industrial revolving loan fund. (Ord. 84-67,
§ 8, 12-17-1984)
Sec. 11-130. Rental Rehabilitation:
The city shall give priority for the rental rehabilitation program such that
candidate projects from within the zone would be favored provided said
properties are located in residentially zoned areas. (Ord. 84-67, § 9, 12-17-
1984; Ord. 84-84, § 2, 2-25-1985)
Sec. 11-131. Urban Homesteading:
The city shall give priority for the urban homesteading program such that
available homes in residentially zoned areas of the enterprise zone would be
favored for city acquisition and disposition to eligible households. (Ord. 84-
67, § 10, 12-17-1984; Ord. 84-84, § 3, 2-25-1985)
Sec. 11-132. Urban Shopstead:
   (a)   Pursuant to section 10 of the Illinois enterprise zone act 1 , the
city hereby establishes an urban shopstead program. Under the urban
shopsteading program, the city may sell to a designated zone organization a
structure or portion thereof it owns for a sum not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00). The designated zone organization shall agree to renovate or
remodel the property to meet the standards and level of maintenance stated in
the agreement between the designated zone organization and the city. The
designated zone organization may sell or lease such structure to commercial or
industrial businesses pursuant to the procedures set forth in the sales
agreement between it and the city. The designated zone organization may retain
the structure in whole or in part for its own use. Any proceeds derived from
the use, lease or sale of such property shall be used for cost recovery and for
activities entered into pursuant to section 8 of the act.
   (b)   The urban shopstead program shall be subject to rules and guidelines
issued by the zone administrator, with the approval of the council of the city,
provided such rules and guidelines are not inconsistent with the act. (Ord. 84-
67, § 16, 12-17-1984)
 
Notes
1 310 ILCS 10/10.
Sec. 11-133. Landmarks And Historic Places:
The city shall provide technical assistance within local landmark designations
and National Register of Historic Places nominations pursuant to the use of
investment tax credits for rehabilitation of properties located within the
enterprise zone. (Ord. 84-67, § 13, 12-17-1984)
Sec. 11-134. Technical Assistance To Certain Organizations:
   (a)   The city shall provide technical assistance to the community caring
conference in its organization and support of block clubs within the enterprise
zone. (Ord. 84-67, §§ 14, 15, 12-17-1984; Ord. 68-2004, § 2, 6-14-2004)
Sec. 11-135. Tax Deduction For Building Materials:
   Each retailer whose place of business is within the corporate limits of the
Cities of East Moline. Moline, Rock Island, Silvis and the unincorporated areas
of the County of Rock Island and the Village of Milan who makes a sale of
building materials to be incorporated into real estate in the enterprise zone
for remodeling, rehabilitation or new construction may exclude the proceeds of
such sale from the state sales tax imposed pursuant to the Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act. 35 ILCS 120 et seq., subject to the limitations outlined in
Section 120/1 f of that Act. (Ord. 84-67, § 4, 12-17-1984; Ord. 68-2004, § 3,
6-14-2004; Ord. 022-2016, § 5, 5-2-2016)
Sec. 11-136. Property Tax Abatement Incentive:
The city of Rock Island authorizes and directs the Rock Island county clerk to
abate ad valorem taxes imposed upon real property, located within the Rock
Island enterprise zone area, upon which new improvements have been constructed
or upon which existing improvements have been renovated or rehabilitated,
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Property tax abatement shall apply only to the taxes corresponding
to an increase in assessed valuation attributable to the construction of
improvements and the renovation of existing improvements for which a building
permit is required and has been obtained; no portion of tax attributable to the
assessed valuation of land shall be abated.
      (2)   Tax abatement shall begin with the first tax bill reflecting a full
property tax assessment on improvements. No abatement shall be offered for
taxes attributable to a partial assessment.
      (3)   Tax abatement shall be at the rate of seventy five percent (75%) of
taxes due and payable to the city of Rock Island in the applicable tax year.
Said tax abatement shall be granted to improvements for which a certificate of
occupancy is granted on or after January 1, 2005.
      (4)   Tax abatement shall be offered for a period of three (3)
consecutive tax years. Said abatement for a specific project will cease after
the third year of abatement or upon the expiration of the enterprise zone,
whichever is sooner.
      (5)   Tax abatement shall apply only to nonresidential improvements which
result in an increase in assessed valuation of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) or more.
      (6)   No abatement shall be granted to any project within the boundaries
of a tax increment redevelopment project area. (Ord. 86-58, §§ 1, 2, 11-24-
1986; Ord. 87-10, § 1, 2-2-1987; Ord. 92-31, § 1, 2-24-1992; Ord. 68-2004, § 4,
6-14-2004)
Sec. 11-137. Redevelopment Sales Tax Increments 1
   (a)   The city council hereby makes the following findings:
      (1)   The city council adopted tax increment financing pursuant to the
provisions of the act 4 in respect to the redevelopment project area described
in attachment A (not set out herein but on file and available for inspection in
the office of the city clerk), and all conditions and provisions of the act 5
and amendment (public act 84-1417), have been complied with since the adoption
of tax increment financing to the date of this section.
      (2)   The redevelopment project area, described in attachment A would not
reasonably be developed without the use of the incremental revenues arising
under the municipal retailers' occupation tax act, the municipal service
occupation tax act, the retailers' occupation tax act, the use tax act, the
service use tax act, and the service occupation tax act.
      (3)   The increment arising under the act 6 and amendment (public act 84-
1417), described in subsection (a)(2) of this section, will be exclusively
utilized for the development of the redevelopment project area.
      (4)   The city has imposed the maximum tax allowed by law under the
municipal retailers' occupation tax act, the municipal use tax act, and the
municipal service tax act.
   (b)   The city of Rock Island hereby elects to utilize those incremental
revenue arising under the act 7 and amendment (public act 84-1417), described
in subsection (a)(2) of this section, for the purpose of implementing the
redevelopment plan and project for the development of the redevelopment project
described in attachment A.
   (c)   Pursuant to the act 8 the state department of revenue is hereby
authorized to annually certify and cause to be paid to the city an amount equal
to the increase in the aggregate amount of taxes paid by retailers and
servicemen on transactions at places of business located within the
redevelopment project area, pursuant to the retailers' occupation tax act, the
use tax act, the service use tax act, and the service occupation tax act, for
as long as the redevelopment project area exists, over and above the aggregate
amount of such taxes as certified by the state department of revenue and paid
under those acts by retailers and servicemen or transactions at places of
business located in the redevelopment project area during the base year, which
shall be the calendar year immediately prior to the year in which the
municipality adopted tax increment allocation financing, less one and six-
tenths percent (1.6%) of such amounts, which sums shall be retained by the
state treasurer to cover the costs incurred by the department of revenue in
administering and enforcing the amendment (public act 84-1417).
   (d)   The city shall deposit in its special tax allocation fund all
incremental revenues from the municipal retailers' occupation tax act, the
municipal service occupation tax act, and local real property taxes, received
with respect to property within the redevelopment project area. (Ord. 86-57, §§
1-4, 11-17-1986)
 
Notes
  See
1 chapter 15
  , "Taxation", of this code.
4 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1.
5 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1.
6 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1.
7 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1.
8 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1.
Sec. 11-137.1 Zone Management:
   Upon designation as an enterprise zone by the Illinois Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity, a Zone Management Board comprised of the
Mayor of the City of Moline, the Mayor of the City of East Moline, the Mayor of
the City of Rock Island, the Mayor of the City of Silvis and the County Board
Chairman of Rock Island County and the Village President of the Village of
Milan will be formed. The Board will be the governing body of the enterprise
zone and will be responsible for all decisions within the zone. The Board shall
elect its chairman, who shall serve as Zone Administrator.
   As Zone Administrator, the Chairman will appoint an Assistant Zone
Administrator who will be responsible for the day to day implementations within
the zone and will be the liaison between the Management Board, the Economic
Development Committee and the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity. (Ord. 022-2016, § 9, 5-2-2016)
Sec. 11-137.2 Management Organization:
   The Zone Administrator may recommend to the Management Board one or more
organizations that qualify as Designated Zone Organization under the provisions
of the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act 20 1LCS 655/1 et seq. Upon approval by the
Management Board and for a term of years set by the Management Board, the
Designated Zone Organization may:
   (a)   Provide or contract for provisions of services including, but not
limited to: crime watch patrols within zone neighborhoods, volunteer day care
centers or other types of public services as provided by ordinance or
regulation;
   (b)   Provide a forum for business, labor and government action on
enterprise zone innovations;
   (c)   Receive title to publicly-owned land;
   (d)   Solicit and receive contributions to improve the quality of life in
the zone area; and
   (e)   Perform such other functions as the Management Board may deem
appropriate, not inconsistent with the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act. (Ord. 022-
2016, § 10, 5-2-2016)
ARTICLE VII. SITE PLANS
(Rep. by Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
Sec. 11-138 – 11-141. Reserved:
ARTICLE VIII. PARKING LOTS
(Rep. by Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
Sec. 11-142 – 11-146. Reserved:
ARTICLE IX. BUFFER YARD REQUIREMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
Sec. 11-147 – 11-154. Reserved:
ARTICLE X: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY FOR REDEVELOPMENT
Sec. 11-155. Determining Factors:
The City of Rock Island may accept any proposal determined by the city to be in
the best interest of the city. The following is a non-exclusive list of
conditions the city may consider when determining whether real estate is
available for sale. The city may require additional information be provided in
determining the best interest to the city on a particular piece of real estate
that may be sold:
   (1)   The property is not currently used by a city department and/or does
not have a municipal function.
   (2)   The property is vacant and/or has no foreseeable use by the city.
   (3)   The property is a non-performing or under-performing asset and value
can be generated by its sale.
   (4)   Economic development opportunities can be generated by selling the
property.
   (5)   The city will be relieved of potential liabilities and/or costs
associated with maintaining a non- income generating property or one that
doesn't provide a public benefit.
   (6)   The proposed use of the property complies with the Comprehensive Plan
and other relevant city plans.
   (7)   The sale of the property will result in returning the property to the
tax rolls. (Ord. 066-2019, 11-11-2019)
Sec. 11-156. – 11-170. Reserved:
ARTICLE XI: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
Sec. 11-171. Creation Of Commission:
   There is created a Community Development Commission to assist the City in
the development and operation of Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
programs. The Commission shall consist of nine (9) members appointed by the
Mayor with the consent of the City Council. Five (5) members of the Commission
shall constitute a quorum. The Commission members shall be broadly
representative of nonprofits and agencies focused on helping low- and moderate-
income residents. At least three (3) members shall live in census tracts with
at least 51% low- and moderate-income residents as defined by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). (Ord 58-2022, 12-19-2022)
Sec. 11-172. Duties Of Commission:
   The Community Development Commission shall possess advisory powers only. The
Commission’s duties shall include:
   (a)   Soliciting community input on the use of CDBG funds;
   (b)   Advising the Mayor and City Council on development of the Annual
Action Plans and five-year Consolidated Plans;
   (c)   Acting as a liaison between the City, agencies, nonprofits, and
residents relative to programs and activities;
   (d)   Making recommendations on the development of new programs and
activities;
   (e)   Monitoring and evaluating programs and activities; and
   (f)   Assisting with any other non-CDBG community development programs and
activities as the City Council may require. (Ord. 58-2022, 12-19-2022)
Sec. 11-173. Officers:
   The Commission shall have a Chair and a Vice chair elected by the Commission
who shall each serve a term of one (1) year and shall be eligible for
reelection. The Chair shall preside over meetings. In the absence of the Chair,
the Vice Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair. If both are absent, a
temporary Chair shall be elected by those present. A staff liaison from the
Community & Economic Development Department shall serve as Secretary to the
Commission and be responsible for preparing and publishing agendas and meeting
minutes. (Ord. 58-2022, 12-19-2022)
Sec. 11-174. Meetings:
   The Commission shall schedule regular meetings on a monthly basis. Meetings
may be cancelled for lack of business. Additional meetings may be called when
needed. All meetings shall be run in accordance with the most recent edition of
Robert’s Rules of Order as well as all applicable local, state, and Federal
codes. (Ord. 58-2022, 12-19-2022)
Sec. 11-175. Terms Of Appointment:
   (a)   The Commission members shall be divided into three (3) groups and
initially appointed for terms of one (1), two (2), and three (3) years
respectively. Thereafter, members shall be eligible to serve three (3) year
terms. Members may serve two (2) consecutive terms (including the initial
appointment term) before being required to take at least one (1) year off of
the Commission. They may thereafter serve again.
   (b)   During the interval between appointments, any vacancy occurring on the
Commission shall be filled by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council.
Each member chosen to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the
unexpired term being occupied.
   (c)   A member may be removed from the Commission, with or without cause, by
a two-thirds (2/3rds) majority vote of the Commission. Any member who does not
attend at least two-thirds (2/3rds) of the meetings in any twelve (12) month
period (or, if not in office for the entire period, such portion of the period
that the member was in office) shall be automatically deemed to have resigned
from the Commission unless waived by the affirmative two-thirds (2/3rds)
majority vote of the Commission. (Ord. 58-2022, 12-19-2022)
Chapter 12
POLICE 1
 
Notes
  Cross references--Administration, ch. 2; emergencies, ch. 5; fire prevention and
  protection, ch. 6; motor vehicle and traffic, ch. 9; board of fire and police
  commissioners, § 2-231 et seq.; arrests by firemen, § 6-42; dog and cat license
1 tags, § 7-144; alarm businesses, systems and users, § 8-26 et seq.; resistance
  to officer, § 10-32; police dogs, § 10-69.
  State law references--Police protection and public order, 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 et
  seq.; arrest, 725 ILCS 5/107-1 et seq.; municipal penal institutions, 65 ILCS 5/
  11-3-1 et seq.; imprisonment for nonpayment of fine, 730 ILCS 5/5-9-3.
Sec. 12-1. Creation Of Department:
There is hereby created a police department in the city. The department shall
be supervised by a police chief. The police chief shall be subject to the
direction and control of the city manager. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III)
Sec. 12-2. Personnel 1 :
   (a)   Chief Of The Department: Except as provided herein the police
department shall consist of the chief and such personnel as shall from time to
time be appointed and dismissed by the board of fire and police commissioners.
The chief of the police department shall be appointed and dismissed by the city
manager with the approval and consent of a majority of the members of the city
council. No chief shall be dismissed without a public hearing before the city
council if he requests same.
   (b)   Appointment Of Deputy Chief Of Police: The chief of the police
department shall appoint a deputy chief of police from the promoted ranks of
police captain or police lieutenant. The deputy chief of police shall be
subject to the direction and control of the chief of police. The deputy chief
of police shall serve in such a position until such time as the chief of police
determines otherwise.
   (c)   Removal Of The Deputy Chief Of Police: If the chief of police
determines that it is necessary and desirable to appoint another person to the
position of deputy chief of police, then the previously appointed person shall,
to the extent he or she was a sworn officer of the police department prior to
being appointed deputy chief of police, automatically return to his or her
prior rank, together with all authority, responsibility and compensation
commensurate with such prior rank. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III and Ch. VII;
Ord., § 1, 8-12-1963; Ord., § 1, 3-19-1964; Ord., § 1, 4-27-1970; Ord., § 1, 8-
10-1970; Ord., § 1, 10-12-1970; Ord., § 1, 10-1-1973; Ord., § 1, 7-12-1976;
Ord. 044-2009, § 1, 6-15-2009)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.
Sec. 12-3. Auxiliary Police:
   (a)   The mayor may, with the advice and consent of the city council,
appoint auxiliary police officers not to exceed fifty (50) in number from names
furnished him by the chief of police.
   (b)   Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular police
department and shall not possess conservator of the peace powers as defined at
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-15-25.
   (c)   Auxiliary police officers shall serve at the direction and control of
the chief of police and shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To aid or direct traffic in the municipality;
      (2)   To aid in the control of natural or manmade disasters;
      (3)   To aid in case of civil disorder;
      (4)   To act at the direction and control of the chief of police in any
other activity, other than those activities traditionally reserved to those who
are vested with conservator of the peace powers.
   (d)   Auxiliary police officers may wear uniforms. Uniforms and
identification symbols worn by auxiliary police officers must be different and
distinct from those worn by regular police officers.
   (e)   Auxiliary police officers may, with prior permission of the chief of
police, carry firearms while on duty.
   (f)   All auxiliary police officers shall successfully complete the forty
(40) hour mandatory firearms training course before being permitted to carry a
firearm, as specified in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-30-20. Upon
completion of the course of training, the chief of police shall file a
certificate attesting to the auxiliary police officer's successful completion
of the required forty (40) hour mandatory firearms training course.
   (g)   Auxiliary police officers shall receive no compensation for services
rendered. (1963 Code, Ch. VII; Ord., § 1, 2-13-1978; Ord., § 1, 11-24-1980;
Ord. 024-2007, § 1, 3-19-2007)
Sec. 12-4. Pension Fund Board Creation 2 :
There is hereby created a board of trustees of the police pension fund,
consisting of five (5) members, two (2) members of which shall be appointed by
the mayor, serving a term of two (2) years each. Two (2) members shall be
elected from the regular police force of the city by the active members
thereof. The fifth member of the board shall be elected by and from the
beneficiaries of the police pension fund. The elected members of the board
shall serve for a term of two (2) years. (1963 Code, Ch. II, Art. III)
 
Notes
2 40 ILCS 5/3-128 et seq.
Sec. 12-5. Pension Fund Board Duties 3 :
The board of trustees shall manage, invest and control the police pension fund
and all monies pertaining thereto in the manner provided by statute. (1963
Code, Ch. II, Art. III)
 
Notes
3 40 ILCS 5/3-132 et seq.
Sec. 12-6. Fees For Fingerprinting Services:
A fee in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be charged by the police
department for providing the following services:
      (1)   To provide, upon request of an individual or business, the
fingerprints of an individual for submission under the conviction information
request of the state of Illinois.
      (2)   For providing fingerprints for any other purpose when requested by
an individual or business of a particular individual. (Ord. 91-137, § 1, 12-16-
1991)
Chapter 13
PUBLIC WORKS, STREETS AND SIDEWALKS 1  2  3
 
Notes
1 605 ILCS 5/2-104.
2 65 ILCS 5/9-1-1 et seq.
3 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 13-1. Public Works Department Created:
There is hereby created a Public Works Department in the City. This department
shall be administered by a Director of Public Works appointed by and subject to
the direction and control of the City Manager. The Director shall supervise the
various divisions of this department, and in addition thereto he shall perform
such further duties as may from time to time be directed by the City Manager.
(1963 Code art. 2-3)
Sec. 13-2. Duties Of Director:
The Director of Public Works shall supervise and coordinate all activities
relating to street operations, garage operations, engineering, sewer
operations, and water operations; and in addition thereto, he shall perform
such further duties as may from time to time be directed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987)
Secs. 13-3-13-20. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. SOLID WASTE 4
 
Notes
4 See also junkyards, § 8-271 et seq., of this code; tree trimmings, § 8-435 of
  this code; depositing rubbish in street, § 10-39 of this code.
Sec. 13-21. Definitions:
The following definitions shall apply in this article:
   Commercial Refuse: That rubbish and garbage from commercial establishments
and industrial plants.
   Containers: Residential refuse containers shall be metal or plastic,
waterproof, ratproof and flytight, with handles. Plastic bags may be used but
must be tied closed. Commercial refuse containers shall be waterproof, ratproof
and flytight.
   Garbage: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from handling,
preparation, processing, cooking or consumption of food; animal waste; and any
waste material edible to rats, with the exception of sewerage and dead animals.
   Nuisances: As defined in section
7-234  of this Code.
   Refuse: All garbage and rubbish within the city limits.
   Residential Refuse: That rubbish and garbage accumulated from dwellings.
   Residential Solid Waste Disposal Rules: The Public Works Department rules
and regulations governing the collection and disposal of solid waste from
residential properties.
   Rubbish: Any waste material except that which is defined as "garbage"
excluding sewerage, yard waste and dead animals.
(Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 88-46, 8-22-1988; Ord. 96-41, 6-10-1996; Ord. 001-
2006, 1-16-2006; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8- 2019)
Sec. 13-22. General Conditions:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any refuse upon any
street, alley, lane or public or private property in the city.
   (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of record to keep the
property in compliance with this article. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 96-41,
6-10-1996; Ord. 036- 2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 13-23. Enforcement:
Pursuant to its authority granted to home rule communities under the Illinois
Constitution, the city hereby adopts Division 19.2, "Sanitation Code
Violations", 65 Illinois Complied Statutes 5/11-19.2-1, and all amendments and
modifications thereto, and establishes a Code Hearing Division within the
Inspection Division. The function of the Code Hearing Division is to expedite
the correction of code violations in the manner set forth in Chapter 4 Article
VII of the Rock Island City Code. (Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 13-24. Storage Facilities For Refuse:
   (a)   Residential, commercial and industrial buildings shall have an animal
proof garbage storage area or animal proof containers.
   (b)   All rubbish in commercial and residential areas shall be disposed of
in containers which prevent scattering.
   (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of record and/or tenant to
keep the garbage and rubbish area free from garbage and rubbish on the  ground
1 .
   (d)   In residential areas, the garbage and rubbish storage areas shall be
located behind the front building line of the property. Garbage and rubbish
storage areas shall not be located on the alley right-of-way.
   (e)   Garbage shall be stored in animal proof containers or in plastic bags
which will be stored in the animal proof garbage storage area. When garbage and
rubbish are mixed, the rubbish must be handled in the same manner as garbage.
   (f)   A minimum pick up once a week is required of all commercial and
residential garbage and rubbish, weather permitting. This may be waived in
writing by the Director of Public Works or his designated representative in a
case where special equipment is used.
   (g)   Every outside garbage and rubbish storage container shall be so
maintained that no odors permeate any dwelling unit.
   (h)   In areas or establishments serviced by private haulers, the containers
will be located on the private property. The Director of Public Works or his
designated representative may order a specific location for the container if
the city receives complaints concerning the location of the container.
Screening of this area shall conform to standards found in the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987; Ord. 96-41, 6-10-
1996; Ord. 001-2006, 1-16-2006; Ord. 008-2010, 2-8-2010; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-
2019)
 
Notes
1 See also chapter 7 of this Code.
Sec. 13-25. Collection; Removal Generally:
The Public Works Department shall provide solid waste collection and disposal
services to residential properties in Rock Island with four (4) or fewer
dwelling units as described in the residential solid waste disposal rules.
Effective January 1, 2018, the refuse charge shall be eleven dollars ($11.00)
per month, per dwelling unit.
Residential properties with more than four (4) dwelling units may elect to
receive solid waste and disposal services from the Public Works Department or
make alternate arrangements. If the services provided by the Public Works
Department are used, effective January 1, 2018, the refuse charge shall be
eleven dollars ($11.00) per month, per dwelling unit. (Ord. 057-2017, 12-18-
2017; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 13-26. Collection Of Brush:
Brush in piles must be removed from a property within thirty (30) days of
breaking or cutting. (1963 Code art. 6-2; Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 001-2006,
1-16-2006; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 13-27. Sewage; Offal:
   (a)   Offal and septic tank pumpings will be handled only by written
permission of the Director of Public Works or his designated representative and
shall be in approved equipment.
   (b)   Disposal of sewage in holding tanks of travel trailers and boats shall
be done at sanitary dumping stations or as the public health sanitarian
(Director of Public Works) may approve. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, 3-
23-1987; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 13-28. Animal Wastes 1 :
Animal wastes must be cleaned up twice a week, and no odor is to be present at
the property line at any time. Animal wastes shall be handled as garbage. (Ord.
82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-2019)
 
Notes
1 See § 7-111 et seq., animals, of this code.
Sec. 13-29. Dead Animals:
An owner may bury dead animals twenty-four inches (24") below the surface of
the ground. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 036- 2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 13-30. Containers Generally:
(Rep. by Ord. 001-2006, § 4, 1-16-2006)
Sec. 13-31. Commercial Refuse And Garbage Containers:
   (a)   No person shall own, for use within the corporate limits of the city,
any commercial refuse
or garbage container without identifying upon the side of the container the
name of the owner in letters at least four inches (4") in height. Any container
not identified by the name of the owner is in violation of this section.
   (b)   No damaged containers shall be used for the collection of refuse
garbage. The owner of a damaged container with refuse or garbage in it shall
repair it within seven (7) days of written notice from the director of public
works or his designated representative of the city.
   (c)   The owner of any refuse or garbage container shall keep the container
in a clean and sanitary condition and shall cause the container to be emptied
at least every seven (7) days, if not necessary prior to that time. The owner
of the container who receives written notice from the Director of Public Works
or his designated representative of the city that the container requires
cleaning shall clean the container within seven (7) days of the notice.
   (d)   Any container without identification of the owner on it, which is left
on public or private property (without property owner's permission), becomes
city property after seven (7) days. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-
1987; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 13-32. Needles, Syringes, Lancets And Sharp Objects:
All sharp objects, including, but not limited to, needles, syringes, and
lancets shall be placed in puncture proof, hard plastic or metal containers
with lids reinforced with tape. (Ord. 97-05, 2-17-1997; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-
2019)
Sec. 13-33. Commercial Rubbish And Garbage Haulers 2 :
The following regulations apply to all haulers of septic tank pumpings, offal,
garbage and rubbish:
   (1)   Vehicles and containers for hauling garbage shall be watertight and
equipped with tight covers and shall be subject to approval by the Director of
Public Works or his designated representative.
   (2)   Vehicles and containers for hauling rubbish shall be so constructed
and equipped as to prevent loss of contents when the vehicle is being operated
on public streets.
   (3)   No hauler may store waste materials mentioned in this article within
the city without written permission of the Director of Public Works or his
designated representative.
   (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the commercial hauler to empty
containers when full. The container must be emptied within twenty four (24)
hours after notification by the public works director or designated
representative. A telephone call to the hauler's office is considered to be
notification. (Ord. 82-28, 9-27-1982; Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987; Ord. 96-41, 6-10-
1996; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-2019)
 
Notes
2 See licenses and business regulations,
  chapter 8 of this code.
Sec. 13-34. Vector Control-Residential Areas Generally:
(Rep. by Ord. 96-41, 6-10-1996)
Sec. 13-35. Vector Control-Commercial Areas Generally:
(Rep. by Ord. 96-41, 6-10-1996)
Sec. 13-36. Vector Control-Extermination:
(Rep. by Ord. 96-41, 6-10-1996)
Sec. 13-37. Nuisances:
(Rep. by Ord. 96-40, 6-10-1996)
Sec. 13-38. Penalties For Weeds And Grass Violations:
   The Building Official may provide for the removal of weeds and grass over
ten inches (10") in height on private property within the City. The term "weeds
and grass" shall be defined to include all annual and perennial vegetation
other than trees and shrubs. This term shall not be defined to include
cultivated flowers and gardens including but not limited to native plantings
used as wildlife habitat; used to control soil erosion; and/or used to manage
storm water. Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be
subject to the following penalties.
   (a)   Upon detection of a weeds and grass violation, the respective property
owner shall be issued a courtesy notice directing them to abate the violation
within seven (7) days of the date of the courtesy notice. No fine shall
accompany the courtesy notice.
   (b)   If the property owner fails to abate the nuisance within seven (7)
days of the courtesy notice, the City shall be empowered to abate the nuisance.
The Building Official and the Public Works Director, or their respective
designees, shall direct the abatement by either City staff or a contractor. The
costs incurred by the City to abate the nuisance shall be charged to the
property owner on their municipal utility bill, in the form of a lien on the
property, or in any other manner consistent with the Code of Ordinances.
Further, the City Attorney is authorized and directed to initiate litigation in
court to recover costs incurred. The cost of abatement will be accompanied by a
fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or ten percent (10%) of the cost of
abatement, whichever amount is greater.
   (c)   A property owner who has been cited and had a nuisance abated on their
property by the City three (3) or more times in a one (1) year period shall be
considered a habitual violator. Habitual violators shall receive notice that
they are so considered and said notice shall inform them that all subsequent
violations shall result in immediate abatement by the City without additional
courtesy notices. The costs incurred by the City to abate the nuisance and the
associated fine shall be charged to the property owner in the same manner as
above. Designation as a habitual violator may be discontinued when the property
owner in question has not been cited for a minimum of one (1) year.
   (d)   Property owners may appeal a weeds and grass citation to the Community
and Economic Development Director. Said appeal must be in writing and explain
how there is not a weeds and grass violation present using photographic
evidence. The appeal must be delivered to the Director prior to the end of the
seven (7) day period following the issuance of the courtesy notice. Appeals
received late shall not be considered. The Director shall have seven (7) days
to review the appeal during which time no abatement or further enforcement
action by the City shall be taken. The Director may reject the appeal on the
grounds that a weeds and grass violation is present or, if convinced that no
violation is present, dismiss the citation. If the appeal is rejected and the
nuisance violation remains present, the City may proceed with abatement
immediately.
(Ord. 85-11, 5-13-1985; Ord. 87-38, 4-13-1987; Ord. 87-47, 4-27-1987; Ord. 88-
28.1, 5-23-1988; Ord. 91-14, 2-11-1991; Ord. 91-53, 5-6-1991; Ord. 34-2001, §
1, 4-23-2001; Ord. 77-2004, § 1, 7-26-2004; Ord. 087-2014, 12-1-2014; Ord. 036-
2019, 7- 8-2019; Ord. 028-2023, 7-24-2023)
Sec. 13-39. Use Of Public Works Compactor:
(Rep. by Ord. 96-41, 6-10-1996)
Sec. 13-40. Billing And Collection Procedures:
   (a)   Billings for refuse charges shall be rendered by the finance
department on a monthly or quarterly basis at the discretion of the finance
department.
   (b)   When refuse charges are not paid on or before the due date stated on
the bill, a penalty shall be added. Failure to receive a bill does not entitle
the owner or customer to a remission of penalty.
   (c)   In the event that the city deems it necessary to refer past due refuse
charges to the city attorney or a collection agency for collection, the city
may additionally recover its actual expenses so incurred, including court
costs, collection agency fees and reasonable attorney fees.
   (d)   Billings for grass and weed charges shall be rendered by the finance
department and shall be billed in a common statement and collected with the
water service charge, if applicable.
   (e)   When grass and weed charges are not paid on or before the due date
stated on the bill, a late fee penalty shall be added. Unpaid charges and
penalties may result in termination of the water service. Failure to receive a
bill does not entitle the owner or customer to a remission of penalty.
   (f)   Upon refusal or neglect of any person to cut weeds or grass, the
Public Works Director may cause the weeds or grass to be cut and shall collect
from the property owner the cost for service. The charge for that service shall
be seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per man hour necessary to complete the work,
with a minimum charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per parcel. These costs
shall be billed to the property owner along with an additional lien charge per
parcel. If mowing charges are fully paid within thirty (30) days, the lien
charge will be removed. If mowing charges are not fully paid within thirty (30)
days, a second billing notice will be sent to the property owner. Upon refusal
or neglect of any person to pay such second notice within seven (7) days, the
city clerk may cause a lien to be placed on the parcel, which lien shall be
superior to all subsequent liens and encumbrances except tax liens if a notice
of lien is filed in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds within twelve
(12) months of the date of completion of cutting weeds or grass by the city.
The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof.
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service.
      (3)   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
city.
   (g)   However, the lien shall not be valid as to any purchaser whose rights
in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to the weed or grass cutting
prior to the filing of such notice, and the lien of the city shall not be valid
as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienholder whose rights in and
to such real estate arise prior to the filing of such notice. Upon payment of
the cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in such property
after the notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released and the
release may be filed on record as in the case of filing notice of lien. (Ord.
008-2010, § 3, 2-8-2010; Ord. 036-2019, 7-8-2019)
Sec. 13-41. Appeal:
   If an individual receiving a notice of fees disputes the amount of any
assessed fees or late charges, they may file a written appeal to the City
Manager in writing stating the nature of the dispute, the amount or amounts
dispute and all facts which the appealing party believes support their claim
that the charges or fees were assessed in error. All appeals must be made to
the City Manager's office by letter addressed to the City Manager with a copy
of the account number and disputed bill attached. All appeals to the City
Manager must be made within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date the
disputed charges were first mailed to the individual or individuals filing the
appeal. Failure to file an appeal in this fourteen (14)-day time period shall
constitute a waiver of the parties' right to contest the charges. The City
Manager shall issue a written ruling on any written appeal within seven
business days of receiving a written notice of dispute and required by this
section. The City Manager shall mail his decision to the appealing party at the
address stated on the billing statement issued by the finance department. The
City Manager's decision shall constitute a final appealable administrative
judgment for the purposes of administrative review by the district court. (Ord.
036-2019, 7-8-2019)
Se c. 13-42. Service Charges Billed In Common:
The refuse charge may be billed on a common statement and collected along with
other charges. If the refuse charge is included on a common statement and the
customer payment is insufficient to pay the total of all portions of the
statement, the payment will be applied in the following priority:
   Refuse charge
   Stormwater charge
   Sewer charge
   Water charge
   Water service repair program charge
   Sewer lateral repair program charge
(Ord. 008-2010, § 3, 2-8-2010; Ord. 036- 2019, 7-8-2019)
Secs. 13-43 – 13-50. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. STREETS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 13-51. Names Generally:
The streets of this city, unless otherwise specifically designated by
ordinance, shall be named and designated as follows: The streets running north
and south shall be called "streets", and they shall be numbered from "one"
upward, commencing at First Avenue as the avenue bordering on the Mississippi
River and numbering toward the south. Half-streets and avenues and courts may
be specially designated by the council. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. I)
Sec. 13-52. Street Name Signs:
The names of all streets and avenues as the same have been established by
ordinance shall be plainly designated by suitable metal signs conspicuously
placed. There shall be at least one such sign placed at each street
intersection. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. I)
Sec. 13-53. Houses And Lots To Be Numbered:
The following shall be the plan of numbering the houses, lots and parts of lots
fronting on any street, avenue or public place of the city: The numbering of
streets running north and south shall commence at First Avenue; and the numbers
shall run from one hundred (100) up to two hundred (200), so far as necessary,
and shall be used consecutively for the distance of the first block or
fractional block, the even numbers for the right-hand or west side of the
street, and the odd numbers for the left-hand or east side of the street. One
number shall be left for and applied to each twenty feet (20') of distance; and
in any case where a building or place of business occupies less than twenty
feet (20'), a fraction number shall be used. The numbers from two hundred (200)
to three hundred (300) shall in like manner be used for the second block and in
like manner for succeeding blocks, consecutively. The numbering of avenues
running east and west shall be done in like manner, commencing at First Street,
even numbers being used for the right-hand or south side of the avenue and odd
numbers for the left-hand or north side of the avenue. Each lot and part of lot
fronting on any street, avenue or public place of the city not already
correctly numbered shall be numbered in accordance with the provisions of this
division. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. I)
Sec. 13-54. Numbers To Be Affixed To Buildings:
   (a)   Each of the figures of every street address number shall be not less
than three inches (3") in height and plainly marked so as to be easily read and
be firmly and conspicuously affixed on the front part of the buildings to which
the same are attached.
   (b)   When notified by the chief building inspector to install house
numbers, it shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of all buildings
fronting on any street, avenue or public place of the city to proceed and
number their buildings as herein required within thirty (30) days after such
notice has been given.
   (c)   No person being the owner or occupant of any building now erected and
fronting on any street, avenue or public place of the city, which is not
already correctly numbered, who, after being notified as aforesaid that the
proper street numbers are of record in the city hall, shall for thirty (30)
days refuse or neglect to number any building or buildings owned or occupied by
him in conformity with the provisions of this division, or shall number any
such building with any number other than that designated by the aforesaid
record. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art. I)
Sec. 13-55. Permanent Improvements; Water Pipes, Etc.:
   (a)   Whenever any street or alley in the city is to be permanently improved
by paving or otherwise, one copper water service pipe shall be laid from the
water main on such street or alley to one foot (1') from the lot line for each
lot or part of lot having a separate water service, and all iron water service
pipes in the streets so to be improved shall be removed to the lot line on each
side of such street or alley.
   (b)   The cost of laying such copper water service pipes shall be borne by
the owners of the property to be served; and if after a reasonable notice from
the city to lay such copper service pipe any property owner shall neglect or
refuse to lay the same, the city may proceed to lay it and collect the cost
thereof from the property owner. The city may order the installation of copper
service pipes as a separate improvement, by special assessment, in the judgment
of the council. All connections with water, sewer or gas pipes and all other
supply and outlet pipes of whatever kind or nature along the streets so to be
improved must be made and laid when the streets, alleys, etc., are open and
excavated for the improvements, or prior thereto. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art. I)
Sec. 13-56. Railroads 1 :
   (a)   Not To Obstruct Streets: No railroad corporation, railroad engineer,
railroad conductor or other person shall obstruct any public highway in the
city, by stopping any train upon or by leaving any car or locomotive engine
standing on its tracks where the same intersects or crosses such public
highway, for a period longer than ten (10) minutes.
   (b)   Sewers Under Tracks: No railroad company operating within the limits
of the city shall, in the construction of its roadbed or the maintenance of its
line or lines of railway, hinder or obstruct any waterway, sewer or gutter, but
shall provide, in accordance with specifications approved by the city council,
construct and maintain sufficient sluice ways, extensions of sewers or gutters
under its tracks and right of way at its own expense; and if the company fails
to do so, the city shall construct the same at the expense of the company.
   (c)   Speed: No railroad corporation, by itself or its agent, shall run any
passenger train within the limits of the city at a greater speed than ten (10)
miles per hour, nor any other train, locomotive, engine or car at a greater
rate than six (6) miles per hour.
   (d)   Penalty: Any railroad corporation that shall of itself, or by any
agent or employee, violate or fail to observe any of the provisions of this
section, and any agent or employee of any railroad corporation or other person
who shall violate or fail to observe the same, shall for each violation or
failure to observe the same, where no other penalty is imposed, be fined in the
sum of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art. III)
 
Notes
1 See also
  chapter 16, "Utilities", of this code.
Secs. 13-57-13-70. Reserved:
DIVISION 2. EXCAVATIONS 1 , 2
 
Notes
1 See also unsafe excavations, openings, etc., § 10-16 of this code;
  unauthorized excavation in street, § 10-35 of this code.
2 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7.
Sec. 13-71. Application For Permit:
   (a)   No person shall dig, excavate, remove, cut or in any manner tunnel
under or break the surface of any part of any street, highway, avenue, alley or
right of way unless an excavation permit to do so has been issued by the city
engineer or his designated representative, according to the conditions of this
division. The excavation permit shall show the date of application, the place
of the excavation, the estimated date when the same will be made, the permit
fee and name of the applicant, who shall state that the person has filed with
the city engineer a bond as required in this division.
   (b)   The excavation permit shall be void ten (10) days after the date of
issue if the initial work has not been started, and the person granted the
permit shall perform the work with all possible speed. From the time the public
right of way is excavated, the permit holder shall have seven (7) workdays
(weather permitting) to complete all work, including the permanent pavement
patch. The permit shall always be in the possession of the person in charge of
the work allowed, or in the possession of the individual working at the
location so that the permit may be produced for inspection at any time upon
request by authorized city officials.
   (c)   A separate excavation permit shall be required for each uninterrupted
alteration of the surface or undersurface of any street, avenue, highway or
alley; provided that when multiple cuts are made at approximately the same time
for purposes of repairing or servicing the underground utilities, one permit
fee shall apply for each three hundred foot (300') section of gas main over
which such multiple cuts are made. Similarly, minimum charges for resurfacing,
provided for hereinafter, shall apply to each such three hundred foot (300')
section.
   (d)   The fee for each permit issued shall be eighty dollars ($80.00), which
shall be paid to the engineering division of the public works department at the
time the permit is issued. No refunds shall be made on excavation permits.
   (e)   In case of a break of a gas main or of other emergency which might in
the opinion of the city engineer prove harmful to the public health or welfare
or cause serious damage, the city engineer or his representative may grant an
"emergency" permit verbally, to be entered subsequently as a written permit as
hereinabove provided.
   (f)   The city engineer shall have the authority and it shall be his duty to
exercise his judgment in the public interest, in the issuance of excavation
permits, with respect to the size, location, specifications and timing of
excavations or other qualifications affecting same. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art.
I; Ord., §§ 1 - 3, 4-12-1976; Ord. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-1987; Ord. 87-34, § 17, 4-
6-1987; Ord. 88-18, § 1, 4-4-1988; Ord. 13-2003, § 1, 2-10-2003; Ord. 013-2009,
§ 1, 2-2-2009; Ord. 011-2016, 3-7-2016)
Sec. 13-72. Bond:
   (a)   No person shall be issued an excavation permit unless a bond has been
executed to the city, with a certificate that the bond is presently in full
force and effect, in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with
good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the city engineer and
conditioned on the faithful performance of all duties required by ordinances,
rules and regulations of the city engineer and the city. It shall be a further
condition of the bond that the obligors will hold the city harmless from any
and all damages sustained by reason of neglect or incompetence on the part of
such person in the performance of work done or careless or improper guarding of
excavations made or trenches dug, or by reason of any other cause whatsoever,
growing out of the negligence or carelessness of such person for the issuance
of a permit provided for in this division. The bond shall be further
conditioned that such person will promptly pay the city any and all sums or
amounts due or that may become due or owing by reason of, and under the terms
and conditions of this division, and in the manner and at the time or place as
provided for herein.
   (b)   No person shall be issued an excavation permit whose bond shall not
have been filed and approved as herein set forth, provided, that a plumber who
has executed a bond as provided in the plumbing ordinance and which contains
all of the conditions set forth in this division, shall be considered to have
met the requirements for bond. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art. I; Ord. 87-22, § 21,
3-23-1987; Ord. 88-18, § 1, 4-4-1988)
Sec. 13-73. Notification Before Improvement:
Whenever improvement of any street, avenue, highway or alley is ordered by the
city council, it shall be the duty of the city engineer or his designee to
notify all pertinent utility companies and all property owners abutting the
improvements and other interested persons of such order advising them to take
steps, prior to the construction of said improvement, to perform all desired or
necessary excavations for placing pipes, conduits, sewers, wires or other
facilities in such public ways under, over, on or adjacent to the improvement.
Such persons so notified shall make such excavations before the improvement
work is begun, or at such time deemed convenient by the city engineer prior to
completion of the improvement. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art. I; Ord. 87-22, § 21,
3-23-1987; Ord. 88-18, § 1, 4-4-1988)
Sec. 13-74. Backfilling And Resurfacing-By Private Utility Companies:
Private utility companies shall be responsible for backfilling, resurfacing and
safeguarding excavations made by these companies in street rights of way, and
also backfilling and safeguarding excavations made on boulevards or other city
property. These companies shall be liable for the maintenance of backfilling
and resurfacing for a period of four (4) years after the date the permit is
issued for the excavations, and shall hold the city harmless for all claims for
damages that may result because of excavations during that period. Backfilling
and resurfacing shall be done in accordance with specifications provided by the
city engineer. The sinking or deterioration within the aforesaid period of
years shall be held to be the responsibility of the utility company, who shall
upon direction of the city engineer reexcavate and properly refill and
resurface the street cut. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art. I; Ord. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-
1987; Ord. 88-18, § 1, 4-4-1988; Ord. 011-2016, 3-7-2016)
Sec. 13-75. Backfilling And Resurfacing - By Others:
The excavation permit holder shall be responsible for backfilling, resurfacing
and safeguarding excavations in the city right of way, and also backfilling and
safeguarding excavations made on boulevards or other city property. The
excavation permit holder shall be liable for the maintenance of backfilling and
resurfacing for a period of four (4) years after the date the permit is issued
for the excavations, and shall hold the city harmless for all claims for
damages that may result because of excavations during that period. The
excavation permit holder shall be responsible for the permanent repairs for a
period of four (4) years after the date the repair is completed. This
responsibility shall include all costs for reopening the street/excavation,
correcting the cause of the problem and replacing the permanent repair.
Backfilling and resurfacing shall be done in accordance with specifications
provided by the city engineer. Permanent repairs may only be conducted by a
licensed, bonded contractor in accordance with article V of this chapter.
      (1)   Inspection Request: The excavation permit holder shall notify the
engineering department twenty four (24) hours in advance of any work to be done
in order that an inspection may be scheduled.
      (2)   Temporary Repairs: All temporary pavement patch repairs shall be
completed as follows:
         a.   Backfill Within Two Feet Of Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks, Driveways
And Other Paved Surfaces: With the exception of the top eight inches (8") of
the excavation, the backfill material shall be sand meeting Illinois department
of transportation gradation FA-6 or an equivalent approved by the city
engineer. The backfill material shall be thoroughly compacted by methods
approved by the city engineer.
         b.   Backfill For Areas More Than Two Feet From Paved Surfaces: The
entire excavation should be backfilled with earthen material free from broken
concrete, asphalt, large rocks or other debris. The backfill material shall be
thoroughly compacted by methods approved by the city engineer.
         c.   Surface Restoration; Paved Surfaces: The excavation permit holder
shall be responsible for placing a temporary pavement patch and/or permanent
pavement patch on all pavement excavations as soon as the repair has been
completed. The temporary patch shall conform to the following minimum
standards:
            1.   Street and alley patches: Two inches (2") of well compacted,
cold mix asphalt placed on six inches (6") of well compacted stone.
            2.   Driveways and sidewalks: Two inches (2") of well compacted,
cold mix asphalt.
            3.   All temporary pavement patches completed between December 1 -
April 1 should be completed using six inches (6") of PCC pavement placed on six
inches (6") of well compacted stone.
The excavation permit holder is responsible for maintaining the temporary
patches until the permanent patch has been completed. During this maintenance
period, the permit holder shall make any repairs as soon as possible after
notification from the city. If the permit holder fails to make the necessary
repairs within twenty four (24) hours, the city will make the repairs and
charge the permit holder for all the costs, including any barricading and
signing necessary to protect the public.
         d.   Surface Restoration Outside Paved Areas: All areas disturbed by
the construction shall be resodded or reseeded at the discretion of the
adjacent property owner. Unless other arrangements can be documented, the
permit holder is responsible for watering the restored area until the new
growth is well established. (Ord. 011-2016, 3-7-2016)
Sec. 13-76. Service Classification:
   (a)   There shall be a charge by the city for the following services
rendered for the repair of excavations at rates to be set from time to time by
the city council:
      (1)   Saw cutting.
      (2)   Pavement removal and PCC replacement.
      (3)   Pavement removal and PCC replacement with bituminous surface.
      (4)   Pavement removal and brick replacement.
      (5)   Pavement removal and seal coat replacement.
      (6)   Pavement removal and PCC sidewalk replacement.
      (7)   Pavement removal and PCC driveway replacement.
      (8)   Adjust castings.
      (9)   Construction inspection.
   (b)   The public works department shall compute the amounts to be billed
based on the above schedule of charges and shall promptly mail invoices to the
persons named on the excavation permits, itemizing the services rendered in
behalf of each permittee and the charges therefor.
   (c)   Services rendered in behalf of the city's sewer and water utilities
shall be charged against the sewer and water operation and maintenance funds
respectively at the same rates as provided for above with the amounts credited
to the engineering fund. Such payments and credits shall constitute interfund
transfers. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art. I; Ord., § 1, 9-3-1964; Ord., § 4, 4-12-
1976; Ord., § 1, 2-9-1981; Ord. 87-22, § 13, 3-23-1987; Ord. 88-18, § 1, 4-4-
1988)
Sec. 13-77. Barricades And Signs, Etc.:
The excavation permit holder shall ensure that the work is performed with
minimal inconvenience and safety hazard to the public. The permit holder shall
provide, erect, and maintain all barricades and signs necessary to protect the
work and the public. If the signing and barricading at any excavation is found
to be inadequate and the permit holder is unable or unwilling to correct the
problem immediately, the city will make the necessary corrections; and all the
costs for this work will be charged to the permit holder.
No street or alley may be closed without the permission of the city engineer.
Fire hydrants, gutters, and storm inlets adjacent to the work may not be
obstructed without the permission of the city engineer. (Ord. 88-18, § 1, 4-4-
1988)
Secs. 13-78-13-79. Reserved:
DIVISION 3. ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS
Sec. 13-80. Application For License:
   (a)   No person shall place a roll-off box, storage cube or similar
container on the property of the city of Rock Island without a license issued
by the city engineer.
   (b)   No person shall be issued a license to place containers on the
property of the city of Rock Island until the city engineer has received a
certificate of insurance indicating that the owner of the container has
liability insurance coverage of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
per accident for accidents involving containers placed on the property of the
city of Rock Island and the city of Rock Island is identified as an additional
insured on the insurance policy.
   (c)   The fee for the license shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
calendar year.
   (d)   The placement and condition of containers placed on the property of
the city of Rock Island must comply with the city of Rock Island roll-off
container policy in section 13-82 of this division. (Ord. 051-2006, § 1, 7-24-
2006)
Sec. 13-81. Correction Of Deficiencies:
   (a)   In the event that a container is located on the property of the city
of Rock Island in violation of this division or the city of Rock Island roll-
off container policy, the public works department may correct the deficiency or
remove the container without prior notice to the container owner.
   (b)   Within thirty (30) days after correction of the deficiencies or
container removal, the city engineer shall notify the owner of the container of
the costs of the deficiency correction or container removal, including
administrative costs, and the deadline for payment.
   (c)   The city attorney is authorized to and may initiate litigation in the
small claims court of the 14th judicial circuit to recover costs. In addition,
the city may contract with any licensed collection agency for the collection of
the costs and the collection agency may recover from the property owner, in
addition to those sums, reasonable collection expenses, including court costs
and attorney fees. (Ord. 051-2006, § 1, 7-24-2006)
Sec. 13-82. Roll-Off Container Policy:
Effective September 1, 2006, roll-off boxes, storage cubes and similar
containers ("container") may be placed on city property under the following
conditions:
      (1)   The owner of the container must have a valid license to place
containers on city property issued by the city engineer.
      (2)   The container must have legible markings indicating the name and
business address of the owner and a twenty four (24) hour emergency contact
telephone number.
      (3)   The container may not impede use of a sidewalk, alley or driveway.
      (4)   The container may not be placed within ten feet (10') of a fire
hydrant.
      (5)   The container may not be placed within twenty feet (20') of an
intersection.
      (6)   If placed on a street, the container must be placed in a legal
parking area within one foot (1') of the curb or edge of the roadway.
      (7)   The container must have reflective stripes and/or reflectors on all
corners that are clearly visible at night to approaching motorists.
      (8)   The outside of the container must be clean and free of graffiti.
      (9)   The container may not create a safety hazard.
      (10)   Containers may not remain on city property for more than fourteen
(14) consecutive days without the written approval of the city engineer.
In the event that a container on city property violates this policy, the public
works department may correct the deficiency or remove the container and the
container owner will be responsible for the costs. (Ord. 051-2006, § 1, 7-24-
2006)
Sec. 13-83. Criminal Penalties:
Any person violating this division shall, upon an adjudication of guilt or a
plea of no contest, be fined a minimum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
to a maximum of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each separate
day on which a violation is committed or continues shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 051-2006, § 1, 7-24-2006)
Secs. 13-84-13-90. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. SIDEWALKS 3
 
Notes
3 65 ILCS 5/11-84-1 et seq.
Sec. 13-91. Penalty:
Every violation of any provision of this article shall subject the offender to
a fine of not less than one dollar ($1.00), and not more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00), for each offense. (1963 Code, ch. XIII, art. II)
Sec. 13-92. Permits For Sidewalks, Drives, Curb Cuts 4 :
   (a)   No person shall construct a sidewalk, driveway entrance or curb or cut
a curb on a public right of way in the city without first having obtained a
written permit therefor issued by the director of public works or his
designated representative, and unless such person shall hold a valid concrete
flat work license in accordance with article V of this chapter. The fee for a
permit for construction of driveway entrances or sidewalks shall be three cents
($0.03) per square foot with a minimum fee of sixty five dollars ($65.00). The
fee for a permit for cutting a curb shall be sixty five dollars ($65.00) for
each twenty five (25) continuous feet of curb or fraction thereof. Prior to
obtaining a permit for such construction the applicant shall submit to the
director of public works or his designated representative a rough sketch
showing the contemplated construction with dimensions and measurements
indicating proposed location, extent and type of work to be done. The director
of public works or his designated representative shall set line, grade and
specifications for all sidewalks, driveway entrances and curbs on public
property, and he shall provide for proper inspection of construction of
sidewalks, driveway entrances and curbs and of curb cutting.
   (b)   No permit or fee shall be required for the construction of sidewalks
in new subdivisions, provided such sidewalks are shown on the approved
subdivision plans and are located on property to be dedicated to the city in
conjunction with such subdivision approval, and provided further that such
sidewalk or driveway entrances are actually constructed at the same approximate
time that the other street improvements are constructed, pursuant to the city's
regulations governing new subdivisions.
   (c)   When a driveway entrance is constructed, or a curb is cut to permit a
driveway entrance, any existing sidewalk must be removed, and the area where
the sidewalk existed shall be repaved according to specifications of the
director of public works or his designated representative and it shall then be
considered as part of the driveway entrance. In such case, a sidewalk permit
shall not be required but only a permit for a driveway entrance. (1963 Code,
ch. XIII, art. II; Ord. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-1987; Ord. 87-34, § 18, 4-6-1987;
Ord. 91-14, §§ 4, 5, 2-11-1991; Ord. 99-08, § 1, 2-15-1999; Ord. 13-2003, §§ 2,
3, 2-10-2003; Ord. 013-2009, § 2, 2-2-2009; Ord. 011-2016, 3-7-2016)
 
Notes
4 See also appendix B, "Subdivisions", of this code.
Sec. 13-93. Concrete Flat Work Bonds  2  :
(Rep. by Ord. 011-2016, 3-7-2016)
 
Notes
2 See § 13-117 of this chapter.
Sec. 13-94. Construction:
All sidewalks shall be laid to the line and grade of, and shall conform to, the
specification of the director of public works or his designated representative.
(1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. II; Ord. 87-22, § 21, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 13-95. Width:
Sidewalks hereafter constructed in the city shall be of cement or concrete and
shall have the following minimum widths in the territory described:
      (1)   In areas zoned for single-family residence four feet (4').
      (2)   In areas zoned for multiple-family use, five feet (5').
      (3)   In areas zoned for commercial or business use, ten feet (10').
Whenever the right of way so permits in residential zones, the sidewalks shall
be constructed so that the edge nearest the property line is not less than one
foot (1') from the property line. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. II)
Sec. 13-96. Location Of Gutters, Shade Trees:
All gutters hereafter constructed shall be located on the lines between that
part of the street devoted to vehicle travel and that part set off for sidewalk
purposes. No trees shall be planted or placed in any street, boulevard or
parkway in the city unless authorized by the city. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art.
II)
Sec. 13-97. Damage To Sidewalks:
If any person shall break or otherwise damage any tile, concrete, brick, plank
or any part of any sidewalk, footpath or curbing, he shall within twenty four
(24) hours thereafter cause the same to be well and sufficiently repaired and
mended; and no person shall break, damage or remove any concrete, brick, tile,
stone or plank, or any part or portion of any walks in the city, except for the
purpose of replacing the same with new material, under the direction of the
director of public works or his designated representative and in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. II; Ord. 87-22,
§ 21, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 13-98. Stoops, Platforms, Railings, Cellar Doors:
No stoop, porch, platform, railing, cellar door or steps shall be allowed to
extend from any building or lot into or upon any sidewalk; nor shall any cellar
door rise or project above the surface of the sidewalks; however, upon good
cause shown, the city council may grant a permit to owners of commercial
buildings to make an opening on the sidewalks adjacent to their property if the
opening is adequately covered and sufficiently protected when open in a manner
that is satisfactory to the director of public works or his designated
representative and the owner makes a written agreement to hold the city
harmless for any liability arising out of the opening and has insurance
coverage for the liability in an amount satisfactory to the director of public
works or his designated representative. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. II; Ord. 87-
22, § 21, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 13-99. Windows, Showcases, Steps:
No bay window or other window shall extend into, upon or over any sidewalk, nor
shall any sign, except as provided in this code, nor shall any show bill,
showcase or other thing be placed upon or project over the sidewalk in front of
or from the wall of any building, nor shall any steps be hereafter constructed
or placed upon or over any sidewalk, street or other public way. (1963 Code,
Ch. XIII, Art. II)
Sec. 13-100. Personal Property On Public Sidewalks:
   (a)   No person shall place upon or suspend over any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise, or cause or permit the same to be done or place or deposit on any
sidewalk, or cause or permit the same to be done, any personal property of any
nature whatsoever.
   (b)   Newspaper vending machines may be allowed on sidewalks after the owner
thereof receives prior authorization from the city clerk subsequent to the
submission of a liability insurance policy with limits approved by the city
attorney. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. II; Ord. 83-25, § 1, 7-11-1983)
Sec. 13-101. Painting, Etc.:
No person shall paint, paste, post, print or nail any handbill or sign, poster,
advertisement or notice of any kind, or other matter or thing whatever, on, nor
in any manner whatever deface any curbstone, or any part or portion of any
sidewalk, or any tree, lamppost, telegraph pole, electric light pole, hydrant,
public building or any other thing or any private wall, door, building, gate or
fence. The owner of any sign, poster or advertisement placed in violation of
this section shall also be guilty of the violation if he knew or should have
known that the sign, poster or advertisement was placed on his behalf in
violation of this section. (1963 Code, Ch. XIII, Art. II; Ord. 058-2005, § 1,
7-11-2005)
Secs. 13-102-13-115. Reserved:
ARTICLE V. FLAT WORK LICENSES
Sec. 13-116. Licenses For Sidewalks, Driveways, Curb Cuts, Excavation Repairs:
No person shall construct a sidewalk, driveway entrance or curb, cut a curb, or
conduct a permanent excavation repair on a public right of way in the city
unless such person shall hold a valid concrete flat work license, which may be
obtained from the director of public works or his designated representative by
filing a concrete flat work license application along with a current concrete
flat work bond and a license application fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00).
(Ord. 011-2016, 3-7-2016)
Sec. 13-117. Concrete Flat Work Bonds:
Every person engaging in the business of the construction of concrete walks,
driveway entrances or curbs, conducting permanent utility repairs, or any
property owner installing his own sidewalks, driveway entrances or curbs before
entering upon the construction of any such concrete flat work in or upon any
public street or avenue in the city, shall file with the director of public
works a bond in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) running to
the city with sureties to be approved by the director of public works,
conditioned upon obligated satisfactory performance of all duties required by
the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city council, and that he will
suitably guard and protect any excavation or obstruction and defend, save, keep
harmless and indemnify the city from all actions, costs, damages and expenses
whatsoever, including attorney fees, which shall or may at any time happen to
come to it for or on account of any injuries or damages received or sustained
by any person or persons, caused by any negligence in either the execution or
protection of the work being done, and guarantee the material and workmanship
of the concrete flat work for a period of four (4) years ensuing after the date
of its acceptance by the public works department. The bond shall be approved by
the director of public works or his designated representative before being
filed. The bond shall be on file in the public works department and shall be
renewed from year to year during the time of work of concrete flat work as
above referred to. (Ord. 011-2016, 3-7-2016)
ARTICLE VI. RESPONSIBLE BIDDER
Sec. 13-118. Defining Responsible Bidder:
The definition of responsible bidder is expanded in the case of bidders for
construction projects, new facilities or renovation of current facilities and
road projects over twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
In determining who is the lowest responsible bidder, the city may consider
those factors set out in 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1022(b).
Additionally, the city may also consider the following factors in determining
who is the lowest bidder:
      (1)   Certificate/proof to transact business within the state of
Illinois.
      (2)   Evidence of compliance with:
         a.   Federal employer tax identification number or social security
number (for individuals).
         b.   "Equal opportunity employer" provisions.
      (3)   Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverages:
general liability, workers' compensation, automobile, hazardous occupation,
product liability and professional liability.
      (4)   Participation in apprenticeship and training programs applicable to
the work to be performed on the project which are approved and registered with
the United States department of labor's office of apprenticeship and training.
The required evidence includes a copy of all applicable apprenticeship
standards and agreements for any apprentice(s) who will perform work on the
public works project.
      (5)   Compliance with all the provisions of the Illinois prevailing wage
act, including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for
those trades as covered in the act.
      (6)   Disclosure of the names and addresses of each subcontractor from
whom the contractor has accepted a bid and/or intends to hire on any part of
this project.
      (7)   A copy of the written program for the prevention of substance
abuse.
         a.   The bidder shall certify that only workers that are enrolled and
tested in company based controlled substance and alcohol testing programs will
be allowed to participate on the project.
      (8)   Statements as to past performances, which shall give an accurate
and complete record of all work projects completed in the last three (3) years
by the contractor.
      (9)   The contractor and officers of the contractor disclose any tax lien
or delinquency in the last five (5) years.
      (10)   Bidder shall certify that all employees expected to perform work
on the project have completed a ten (10) hour or greater OSHA safety program
within the last five (5) years. Only workers that have satisfactorily completed
a ten (10) hour or greater OSHA safety program will be allowed to participate
on the project. The bidder must have copies of employee OSHA cards on file, and
the city may request the bidder provide copies of employees' OSHA cards;
failure to produce an employee's OSHA card may result in a determination that
the bidder is not a responsible bidder.
      (11)   Bidder shall demonstrate the efforts taken to employ local workers
with strong consideration given to bidders employing residents of the city of
Rock Island.
      (12)   Bidder provides written record of compliance with state of
Illinois DBE requirements for public works projects, including the hiring of
women and minority workers to perform the contracted work.
      (13)   Any other factors which are relevant to the determination of a
bidder's ability to carry out the requirements of the project in accordance
with what may be expected or demanded under the terms of the contract.
It shall be the sole responsibility of the contractor to comply with all the
submission requirements at the time it submits its bid to the city of Rock
Island.
(Ord. 052-2016, 11-21-2016)
Sec. 13-119. Reserved:
ARTICLE VII. PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Sec. 13-120. Purpose:
   The purpose of this Article is to prohibit the obstruction of public rights-
of-way and establish the City’s authority to remove any unauthorized items to
ensure free and safe access to public spaces.
(Ord. 57-2025, 6-10-2025)
Sec. 13-121. Definitions:
   For the purpose of this chapter:
   Public Right-of-Way shall mean any area legally dedicated for public use,
including but not limited to streets, sidewalks, alleys, pathways, ravines, and
other spaces accessible by the public for passage or use.
   Obstruction shall mean any item, object, or debris, including but not
limited to junk, scrap, equipment, trailers, recreational vehicles, boats,
structures, and construction materials, that partially or wholly blocks,
restricts, or impedes free passage along the public-right-of way.
(Ord. 57-2025, 6-10-2025)
Sec. 13-122. Prohibition Against Obstruction:
   (a)   No person or entity shall place, store, deposit, or otherwise leave
any item that obstructs any portion of the public right-of-way unless otherwise
permitted by the City under a valid permit, license, or written agreement.
   (b)   This prohibition applies to, but is not limited to, obstructions in
the right-of-way related to adjacent business activities or personal use.
   (c)   This section does not apply to vehicles legally parked on public
streets.
(Ord. 57-2025, 6-10-2025)
Sec. 13-123. City’s Right to Remove Obstructions:
   (a)   Authorization to Remove: The City or its designated agents have the
right to remove or cause to be removed any item obstructing the public-right-of
way without prior notice if such item poses an immediate hazard or threat to
public safety.
   (b)   Notice of Violation: In cases where an obstruction does not pose an
immediate hazard, the City may issue a notice to the responsible party to
remove the item within three (3) days. Failure to comply may result in the City
removing the obstruction at the owner’s expense.
   (c)   Cost Recovery: The City shall be entitled to recover all reasonable
costs associated with the removal, storage, and disposal of any obstruction.
Unclaimed items may be disposed of after seven days by the City.
(Ord. 57-2025, 6-10-2025)
Sec. 13-124. Penalties:
   Any individual or entity found in violation of this Ordinance shall be
subject to a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) per violation,
day for day, for as long as the item impedes the public-right-of way, in
addition to any costs incurred by the City for the removal of obstructions.
(Ord. 57-2025, 6-10-2025)
Sec. 13-125. Enforcement:
   Unless otherwise in conflict with this Article, the City shall follow the
procedures outlined in Chapter 10, Article VI, Sec.
10-107, “Administrative Adjudication of Violations of City Ordinances” before
imposing any fine or cost of removal.
(Ord. 57-2025, 6-10-2025)
ARTICLE XIII. MUNICIPAL GROCERY OCCUPATION TAXES
Sec. 15-126. Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax Imposed:
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/8-11-24).
(Ord. 46-2025, 4-29-2025)
Sec. 15-127. Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax:  
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in division (a), above. The
imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions of
Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
(Ord. 46-2025, 4-29-2025)
Sec. 15-128. Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes:  
   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 46-2025, 4-29-2025)
Sec. 15-129. Clerk to file Ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue:  
   As required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/
8-11-24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this chapter
with the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before or October 1, 2025.
(Ord. 46-2025, 4-29-2025)
Sec. 15-130. Effective Date:
   The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall take effect on the later of:
   (a)   January 1, 2026;
   (b)   The first day of July next following the adoption and filing of this
chapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding
April 1st; or,
   (c)   The first day of January next following the adoption and filing of
this chapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the
preceding October 1st.
(Ord. 46-2025, 4-29-2025)
Chapter 14
RECREATIONAL AND CULTURAL FACILITIES 1
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-95-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 14-1-14-15. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. PARK AND RECREATIONAL SYSTEM
Sec. 14-16. Establishment:
There is hereby established in the city a recreation system in the lands,
public parks or buildings heretofore designated or set apart by the city for
use as playgrounds or recreation centers. (1963 Code, ch. III, art. I)
Sec. 14-17. Park And Recreation Board 1 -Creation:
There is hereby established in the city a park and recreation board to be known
as the Rock Island park and recreation board, which board shall consist of six
(6) members to be appointed by the mayor by and with the consent of the city
council, to serve without compensation. The board shall have the power to
provide, maintain, improve and conduct parks, playgrounds and recreation
centers in the city. Any money appropriated by the city council for such
purposes shall be expended under the board's direction. At the close of each
fiscal year, and at any other time when requested by the city council, the
board shall make a report to the council of all monies received and expended by
the board. The board shall use the central accounting facilities provided by
the city clerk's office. (1963 Code, ch. III, art. II; Ord. 001-2017, 1-23-
2017)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-95-3.
Sec. 14-18. Park And Recreation Board-Term Of Office 2 :
The term of office of the members of the park and recreation board shall be for
a period of five (5) years or until their successors are appointed and
qualified, except that the members of the board first appointed shall be
appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually
thereafter. If any vacancy occurs in the office of any member, the mayor shall
appoint a successor to serve for the unexpired term. (1963 Code, ch. III, art.
I)
 
Notes
2 65 ILCS 5/11-95-3.
Sec. 14-19. Park And Recreation Board-Oath And Bond 3 :
Each member appointed to the park and recreation board shall before entering
upon the duties of his office take the oath of office required by law and shall
execute to the city a bond in a sum not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), with one or more sureties, to be approved by the city council,
conditioned as required by law. (1963 Code, ch. III, art. I)
 
Notes
3 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
Sec. 14-20. Park And Playground Rules:
   (a)   No person, in any park or playground in the city, shall:
      (1)   Permit unleashed and/or unaccompanied animals on any such premises.
      (2)   Throw stones or missiles by hand, slingshot or otherwise.
      (3)   Carry or discharge firearms or set off fireworks. This prohibition
against discharge of a firearm as provided herein shall not apply to the
hunting of deer with a bow and arrow in accordance with the provisions of
subsection 10-9(d) of this code.
      (4)   Cut, mark, break, climb upon or in any way injure or deface trees,
shrubs, plants, flowers, buildings, fences, bridges or other structures or
property, whether real or personal, on any such premises.
      (5)   Remove from any such premises sod, trees, plants or other movable
property, or pick flowers of any kind on any such premises.
      (6)   Race with horses, bicycles, automobiles, motorcycles or similar
vehicles; drive or ride on drives on any such premises at more than fifteen
(15) miles per hour; nor shall horseback riding be permitted except on
established bridle paths.
      (7)   Sell, consume or be in possession of beer, wine or other
intoxicating liquor, or enter or be upon the premises of any park or playground
while under the influence of intoxicating liquor. The sale and possession of
beer, wine or other intoxicating liquor is permitted if it is purchased from
employees of the Rock Island park and recreation department or from a qualified
vendor or licensee issued a temporary liquor license, and only in those areas
previously so designated by the Rock Island park and recreation board. The Rock
Island park and recreation board may also approve the "gifting" of liquor for
private rentals at previously designated park and recreation areas or
facilities as stipulated by operational policy. After receiving approval by the
park and recreation board, all applications for "gifting" of liquor at a
private rental must be received by the liquor commissioner's office no later
than seven (7) days in advance of the scheduled event. Upon approval, an
approval letter from the liquor commissioner will be sent to the applicant and
the policy department.
      (8)   Lie or sleep on tables or benches on any such premises.
      (9)   Tell fortunes or play any games of chance.
      (10)   Distribute circulars or advertisements or post notices, bills or
other paper upon any structures or tree on any such premises, or advertise by
any other means.
      (11)   Take any bird eggs or bird nests; fish in the lagoons, unless
permitted at such times as designated by the park and recreation board; kill or
disturb any waterfowl, birds or wildlife.
      (12)   Light any fires on any such property other than in established
fireplaces.
      (13)   Place ashes, garbage, papers or rubbish of any kind on any such
premises other than in containers provided for that purpose.
      (14)   Drive or park motor vehicles on the grass areas.
      (15)   Wear inappropriate clothing. Bathing clothes are permitted in
established bathing pool areas.
      (16)   Be on any premises between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., unless authority is granted and the party is under
proper supervision. The playgrounds will be open and closed for use at the
direction of the playground supervisor, and anyone in the playgrounds when they
are closed will be considered as trespassing on such property.
      (17)   No golf shall be played in any of the parks, nor shall practicing
of golf be permitted, except in areas designated by the park board.
      (18)   No baseball or softball games shall be permitted, except in areas
established for the playing of such games.
      (19)   Conduct himself in a disorderly manner in any building or within
any such premises.
      (20)   Allow any boats with motors in or operated in Lake Potter in
Sunset Park north of a line across the neck of the lake, which is marked with
buoys and a rope, other than in areas specifically designated therefor.
      (21)   Waterski, water plane, swim or ride a surfboard within Lake Potter
in Sunset Park or in the channel connecting the lake with the Mississippi River
except for events approved by the Park Board.
      (22)   Operate a motorboat at a speed in excess of eight (8) miles per
hour within Lake Potter or in the channel connecting the lake with the
Mississippi River.
      (23)   Drive a tractor or tractor and semitrailer through any park in the
City nor park any tractor or tractor and semitrailer in any park in the City
without the specific authorization of the City Council.
      (24)   Operate a bicycle or motorized vehicle on the Sunset Park "walk-
jog" path.
      (25)   Allow a dog to litter on the Sunset Park "walk-jog" path.
      (26)   Fish off any of the docks in Sunset Marina or Schwiebert
Riverfront Park.
      (27)   Be in or upon that portion of Sunset Marina in Sunset Park as
described on exhibit A on file with the City Clerk and made a part of this
section by reference, except those persons who have boats and have leased
docking area in Sunset Marina or their invited guests and suppliers and
customers of the City's lessees.
      (28)   Dock overnight, or use a courtesy dock for more than a four (4)
hour period, except for marina facilities designated for that purpose.
      (29)   Boats may not be left unattended for more than ten (10) minutes at
boat ramp docks.
      (30)   Sell merchandise, goods, services, food or other articles in any
City park without the written permission of the Park and Recreation Director.
      (31)   Enter any secured, enclosed structure owned or controlled by the
Park Board, or under the supervision of the Park Board without the written
permission of the Park and Recreation Director.
      (32)   Hold any boating event, fishing tournaments, contest or
competition which uses boats, sailboats, or other craft on Potter Lake without
written permission of the Park Board.
      (33)   Park for more than three (3) hours at a time at the Lincoln Park
tennis court lot, the Webber Park parking lot, or other lots designated with
specific time limits.
      (34)   Disobey posted parking requirements, unless otherwise authorized
by the Park and Recreation Director or the Park and Recreation Board.
      (35)   Raft boats together while tied to a dock or ramp.
      (36)   Drink alcoholic beverages while on the docks or ramps.
      (37)   Grill or cook on the docks or ramps.
      (38)   Swim or dive off of any docks or ramps.
      (39)   Congregate, sunbathe, picnic or loiter on the docks.
      (40)   Allow unattended children on the docks.
      (41)   Block access on the docks.
      (42)   Dock a boat after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight at Schwiebert
Riverfront Park without first obtaining permission to do so from the Park
Board.
      (43)   Use the docks during Park Board approved special events.
      (44)   Fish off of Potter's Lake boat ramp docks. Fishing is only allowed
off of Potter's Lake pedestrian docks.
   (b)   The minimum fine for a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event a person is accused of a
violation of this section and does not wish to contest the allegation prior to
the time a complaint is issued for the violations, the person so accused may
pay to the City, at police headquarters, a penalty in the sum of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for and in full satisfaction of the violation. (1963 Code, ch.
III, art. I; Ord., 7-12-1976; Ord., 10-25-1976; Ord., 1-12-1981; Ord., 2-8-
1982; Ord. 83-57, 2-6-1984; Ord. 87-65, 8-10-1987; Ord. 88-03, 1-4-1988; Ord.
99-88, 11-8-1999; Ord. 025-2007, 4-9-2007; Ord. 034-2009, 5-4-2009; Ord. 083-
2011, 11-7-2011; Ord. 063-2013, 11-18-2013; Ord. 030-2014, 3-24-2014; Ord. 056-
2018, 9-24-2018)
Sec. 14-21. Ordinances Not Affected By Code:
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any
ordinance designating the names and boundaries of City parks, and all such
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set out at length in this Code. (1963 Code, ch. III, art. I)
Sec. 14-22. Special Use Activity:
No special use activity shall take place in any park, playground, special
facility or other property under jurisdiction of the Park and Recreation Board
without the issuance of a special use permit by the Park and Recreation Board.
Any person or organization desiring to have a special use activity shall submit
a special use application to the Park and Recreation Board for review and final
disposition. The board shall consider the special use application at its first
meeting held after the filing of said application. The board shall have the
authority to establish a fee for the special use facility commensurate with
their costs to the Rock Island Park and Recreation Department. For the purpose
of this section, a "special use" activity shall be defined as any activity,
event, speech, gathering, observance, ceremony or entertainment event not
sponsored by the Rock Island Park and Recreation Department. This type of
activity is distinguished from "routine use" by:
      (1)   The use of the facility is not within the intended use of the
facility and such use restricts or limits the intended use of a park facility
by the general public;
      (2)   The use of additional mechanical equipment, portable generators,
staging, tentage, food dispensing equipment, loudspeakers, or other items not
available on the site; or
      (3)   The advertising and promotion of the activity, identifying the park
location as the site of the event.
Any person, firm, corporation or organization violating the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 88-39, 7-11-1988)
Secs. 14-23-14-35. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. LIBRARY 1
 
Notes
1 75 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
Sec. 14-36. Establishment 2 :
The establishment of the Public Library and Reading Room of this City, and the
acceptance by the City of the donation of the books, pamphlets, papers,
fixtures and other property of the Young Men's Library Association, upon the
condition of such donation, as set forth in the ordinances of the City passed
August 12, 1872, are hereby approved and confirmed; and the Public Library and
Reading Room shall henceforth be kept up and maintained as such for the use of
the inhabitants of the City and shall be called the "Rock Island Public Library
and Reading Room". (1963 Code, ch. III, art. II)
 
Notes
2 75 ILCS 5/1-1, 5/1-6.
Sec. 14-37. Board Of Directors-Created 3 , 4 :
There is hereby created a board of directors to consist of nine (9) members for
the Rock Island Public Library. The board of directors shall be appointed by
the mayor with the approval of the city council as provided by state statute,
and shall be chosen from the citizens at large, with reference to their fitness
for such office, and not more than one member of the city council shall be at
any one time a member of the board. Directors shall hold office for three (3)
years as provided by law. The mayor may remove any board member on any formal
charge as provided by law. Vacancies in the board of directors occasioned by
removals, resignation or otherwise shall be reported to the mayor and be filled
in like manner as original appointments. No director shall receive compensation
as such. (1963 Code, ch. II, art. III)
 
Notes
3 See also boards, commissions and committees, § 2-201 et seq., of this code.
4 75 ILCS 5/4-1.1, 5/4-1; 65 ILCS 5/3-11-1; 75 ILCS 5/4-4, 5/4-5.
Sec. 14-38. Board Of Directors-Duties 5 :
The board of library directors shall make and adopt such bylaws, rules and
regulations for their own guidance and for the government of the Rock Island
Public Library as may be expedient and not inconsistent with the state statutes
or ordinance. They shall also perform such other duties as are imposed by
statute or ordinance. (1963 Code, ch. II, art. III)
 
Notes
5 75 ILCS 5/4-7.
Sec. 14-39. Penalty For Injury To Or Failure To Return Library Materials 1 :
Any person who shall carelessly, wilfully or maliciously cut, tear, write upon,
deface, injure or destroy any book, pamphlet, periodical, newspaper, plate,
picture, engraving or any other property or thing of value belonging to or
under the control of the Rock Island public library and reading room or who
shall fail to return thereto any book, pamphlet, periodical, newspaper, plate,
picture, engraving or any other thing of value belonging to or under the
control of the library and reading room, according to the requirements of the
bylaws and rules thereof, or after a notice so to do, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00). All such fines shall, when collected, be paid to the city treasurer
and by him credited to the library fund. (1963 Code, Ch. III, Art. II)
 
Notes
1 75 ILCS 5/1-5.
Secs. 14-40-14-50. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. RESERVED:
Secs. 14-51 - 14-70. Reserved:
ARTICLE V. HAUBERG CIVIC CENTER 1
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-45.1-1 et seq.
Sec. 14-71. Establishment; Name:
There is hereby established in the city the Hauberg Civic Center, situated on
the Hauberg homestead in the city, and conveyed by Catherine H. Sweeney and
John H. Hauberg, Jr., to the Hauberg Civic Center Corporation, the stock of all
of which corporation is now owned and possessed by the city. The real estate is
situated in the city, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the northeast corner of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 2 West
of the Fourth Principal Meridian; then south on the section line 965.4 feet,
more or less to the centerline of Thirteenth Avenue, formerly known as Twelfth
Avenue extended east; thence west 334.9 feet more or less to the centerline of
Twenty-third Street produced southerly; thence north 408.2 feet, more or less,
along said centerline, so produced, to the intersection thereof with the
centerline of Twelfth Avenue, formerly known as Eleventh Avenue; thence east
along the centerline of Twelfth Avenue, 178.25 feet; thence north 530.9 feet
along the centerline of alley to township line first abovementioned; thence
east along said township line 168.25 feet to the place of beginning.
Also a parcel in the city, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the east side of Twenty-second Street, 541.8 feet south
of the intersection of the township line between Section 35, Township 18 North,
Range 2 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian and Section 2, Township 17 North,
Range 2 West of the Fourth Principal Meridian; thence south 408.2 feet to the
centerline of Thirteenth Avenue, formerly known as Twelfth Avenue extended
east; thence east at right angles 324 feet more or less to the centerline of
Twenty-third Street extended south; thence north at right angles 408.2 feet to
the centerline of Twelfth Avenue; thence west to the point of beginning.
Also Lots 41 and 42 in Hale's Addition to the city, excepting the south 25 feet
thereof, in the county. Subject to a perpetual easement from John H. Hauberg
and Sue D. Hauberg to the city to lay, maintain, operate, repair and remove a
twenty four inch (24") water pipe in a strip of land ten feet (10') in width,
as described in a deed recorded in book 224 of mortgages on page 187 in the
office of the recorder of deeds in and for the county.
(1963 Code, Ch. III, Art. III)
Sec. 14-72. Purpose:
The Hauberg Civic Center shall be used and maintained to promote citizen
activity in the fields of graphic arts, music, literature, dramatics, local and
Indian history, natural history, horticulture, social sciences and such other
cultural, patriotic and educational purposes as may from time to time be deemed
advantageous, and shall be used for meetings of groups interested in the same,
particularly groups that have no headquarters of their own. (1963 Code, Ch.
III, Art. III)
Sec. 14-73. Governing Body 1 :
The Hauberg Civic Center shall be governed by the Rock Island park board who
shall oversee programming, set fees, policy and maintain the building. (1963
Code, Ch. III, Art. III; Ord. 99-88, § 1, 11-8-1999)
 
Notes
1 See also boards, commissions and committees, § 2-201 et seq., of this code.
Secs. 14-74-14-75. Reserved:
Chapter 15
TAXATION 1
 
Notes
  See also chapter 2, "Administration"; § 2-159, "Bids On Behalf Of City At Tax
  Sales, Etc."; chapter 3, "Alcoholic Liquor"; § 5-28, taxes for emergency
  service and disaster agency purposes;
1 chapter 8, "Licenses And Business Regulations";
  chapter 9, "Motor Vehicles And Traffic"; § 11-121 et seq., enterprise zone;
  and
  chapter 16, "Utilities", of this code.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 15-1. Ordinances Not Affected By Code:
Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance establishing a special service area, and all such ordinances are
hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as
if set out at length in this code. (1984 Code)
Sec. 15-2. Retailers' Occupation Tax:
   (a)   (1) Effective July 1, 2010, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other than an
item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an agency of this
state's government, at retail in this municipality at the rate of one and
twenty five one-hundredths percent (1.25%) of the gross receipts from such
sales made in the course of such business, while this section is in effect; and
      (2)   Effective July 1, 2010, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of service, at the
rate of one and twenty five one-hundredths percent (1.25%), effective July 1,
2010, of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by
such serviceman as an incident to sale of service.
      (3)   Such "home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax" and the "home
rule municipal service occupation tax" shall not be applicable on the sales of
food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been
prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics.
      (4)   The imposition of these home rule taxes are in accordance with the
provisions of 5/8-11-1 and 5/8-11-5, respectively, of the Illinois municipal
code  1  .
   (b)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department of
revenue of the state. The department of revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section. (Ord. 011-2010, § 1, 3-
8-2010)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS, as amended.
Sec. 15-3. Service Occupation Tax:
   (a)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this city in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by those servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5. The exclusion contained in section 2(e) of the
"service occupation tax act" approved July 10, 1961, as amended  2  , shall not
apply to property within the city. The farm machinery and equipment exclusion
contained in section 3-5 of said act, as amended  3  , shall not apply to
persons engaged in the business of making sale of service within the city.
   (b)   Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this city shall file, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of revenue
required by section 9 of the "service occupation tax act" approved July 10,
1961, as amended  4  .
   (c)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (1963 Code, ch. X;
Ord., 7-14-1967; Ord., 7-18-1967; Ord., 4-8-1968; Ord., 8-25-1969; Ord., 2-19-
1979; Ord., 1-26-1981)
 
Notes
2 35 ILCS 115/1.
3 35 ILCS 115/3-5.
4 35 ILCS 115/9.
Sec. 15-4. Use Tax:
   (a)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the city any item of
tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail from a
retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of this state's
government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price
of such tangible property with "selling price" to have the meaning as defined
in section 2 of the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955  5  .
   (b)   Such tax shall be collected by the state department of revenue for the
city and shall be paid, or an exemption determination must be obtained from the
state department of revenue, before the title or certificate of registration
for the personal property is issued.
   (c)   The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in section 3 of
the "use tax act" approved July 14, 1955, as amended  6  , shall not apply to
the privilege of using in the city any item of tangible personal property which
is purchased outside Illinois at retail from a retailer and which is titled or
registered with an agency of this state's government. (Ord., 10-14-1974; Ord.,
1-26-1981)
 
Notes
5 35 ILCS 105/2.
6 35 ILCS 105/3-5.
Sec. 15-5. Automobile Renting Occupation Tax  7  :
   (a)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting automobiles in this city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business, in accordance
with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7.
   (b)   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of "an act in relation to a
tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
to purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 29, 1933, as amended  8  .
   (c)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord., 1-4-1982)
 
Notes
7 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
8 35 ILCS 120/2, 120/3.
Sec. 15-6. Automobile Renting Use Tax 2 :
   (a)   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this city an
automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and which is titled
or registered with an agency of this state's government at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8.
   (b)   The tax provided for in this section shall be collected from persons
whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as being
in this city.
   (c)   The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the state department
of revenue. (Ord., 1-4-1982)
 
Notes
2 35 ILCS 155/1 et seq.
Sec. 15-7. Fire Insurance Tax 3  4 :
   (a)   All corporations, companies and associations not incorporated under
the laws of this State and which are engaged in the City in effecting fire
insurance shall pay to the Treasurer of the City a tax or license fee amounting
to two percent (2%) of the gross receipts received by their agency in the City;
and at that rate such corporations, companies and associations shall pay upon
the amount of all premiums which during the year ending on every July 1, shall
have been received for any fire insurance effected or agreed to be effected on
property situated within the City by or with such corporations, companies or
associations, respectively, in accordance with an act of the general assembly
of the State entitled "An act to enable cities, towns and villages, organized
under any general or special law to levy and collect a tax or license fee from
foreign fire insurance companies for the benefit of organized fire
departments".
   (b)   The money paid over to the City as a result of the tax levied by this
Section shall be set aside and appropriated for the maintenance, use and
benefit of the Fire Department. The City Treasurer shall pay the funds received
from the aforementioned tax to the treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance Tax
Revenue Administration Board. The Board treasurer will deposit the funds in the
Foreign Fire Insurance Fund, and such funds shall be invested in the same
manner and under the same guidelines as the City investment policies. The funds
shall be under the care and supervision of the Foreign Fire Insurance Tax
Revenue Administration Board as hereinafter created and shall be expended for
the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department. The Board shall, in
accordance with City budget and appropriations procedures, annually prepare a
budget for the funds which shall be considered by the City Council together
with the Fire Department budget, and the approved expenditures shall be
included in the annual budget ordinance.
   (c)   There is hereby established a Foreign Fire Insurance Tax Revenue
Administrative Board which shall consist of seven (7) Trustees. The Fire Chief
shall be a voting Trustee by virtue of rank. The Fire Chief may appoint a
designated proxy in his place for attendance and voting at any meeting as he
sees fit. Six (6) Trustees shall be elected at large by the sworn members of
the Fire Department. The 2010 election subsequent to the revised statute has
established staggered terms for membership. Three (3) Trustee positions shall
be elected annually. Terms subsequent to the 2010 election shall be for two (2)
years. Elected Trustees shall serve until their successor is both elected AND
installed to the Board. If there are an insufficient number of candidates to
fill all Trustee positions, the number of Trustees may be reduced, but no fewer
than three (3) Trustees. Elections and the filling of vacant Trustee positions
shall be in accordance with the Bylaws adopted by the Board.
   (d)   By statute, the Board Officers shall include a Chairman and Secretary/
Treasurer. They will be elected annually during the first meeting following the
general election by the newly installed Trustees of the Board. The Chairman
shall preside over all meetings of the Board as a whole. He will assume
leadership of the Board, and his authority over it will be given through the
Constitution and Bylaws of the Rock Island Fire Department Foreign Fire
Insurance Tax Revenue Administrative Board. In the absence of the Chairman,
meetings will be run by the Secretary/Treasurer, with full authority of the
Chairman. The Secretary/Treasurer shall record and keep accurate minutes of all
meetings conducted by the Board. Additionally, the Secretary/Treasurer shall
also be responsible for the receiving of all funds appropriated to the Board,
and implementing expenditures for the maintenance, use, and benefit of the
department upon the order of the Board. Information kept by the Secretary/
Treasurer for each meeting shall be in accordance with the Bylaws adopted by
the Board.
   (e)   The Board shall have the power to expend money provided by the foreign
fire insurance tax in accordance with written bylaws and to make gifts to the
city of property, supplies or money for the use, maintenance and benefit of the
Fire Department and to adopt bylaws establishing the manner of selection of a
chairman and the other officers of the Board; the rules of procedure for the
conduct of its meetings, the establishment of regular meeting times and places
and the manner of calling special meetings; the authority of its officers, and
other necessary matters dealing with the administration of the Fund; however,
the bylaws may not violate the following:
      (1)   A quorum of four (4) Trustees shall be present to conduct regular
business. A. quorum shall not exist without either the Fire Chief or his
designated proxy, being present.
      (2)   No bylaw or amendment thereto shall be effective until same has
been on file with the City Clerk for at least ten (10) days.
      (3)   The purposes for which funds may, and may not, be expended shall be
in accordance with the Bylaws adopted by the Board.
         a.   The Board shall have the duty to submit to the City Council on or
before January 31 of each year a report detailing meetings, actions, funds
received and funds disbursed for the previous year ending on December 31. In
addition, the Board shall require that accounts be kept in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles for government entities and use a
centralized accounting system provided by the City Finance Department. Further,
no purchase of equipment, supplies or other property shall be made unless upon
the order of the Board.
   (f)   The Board shall have the duty to submit to the City Council on or
before April 30 of each year a report detailing meetings, actions, funds
received and funds dispersed for the previous year ending on March 31. In
addition, the Board shall require that accounts be kept in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles for government entities and use a
centralized accounting system provided by the City Finance Department. Further,
no purchase of equipment, supplies or other property shall be made unless upon
the order of the Fire Department.
   (g)   The Board shall have the duty to require its treasurer to post a
surety bond acceptable to the City in the penal sum of twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) each conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties
of office and the payment of all monies received by such officer according to
law and ordinance. (1963 Code, Ch. X(I), §§ 1, 2; Ord. 91-19, §§ 1, 2, 2-25-
1991; Ord. 054-2019, 10-28-2019)
 
Notes
3 Fire prevention and protection,
  Chapter 6 of this Code.
4 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1 et seq.
Secs. 15-8-15-20. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. RESERVED 1
 
Notes
  Prior ordinance history; Wheel Tax: 1963 Code, Ch. X(IV); Ord., § 1, 9-23-1963;
1 Ord., §§ 1, 2, 3-3-1970; Ord., § 1, 3-16-1970; Ord., § 1, 3-1-1976; Ord., § 1,
  11-20-1978; Ord., § 1, 6-22-1981; Ord., § 1, 2-8-1982; Ord., § 1, 2-22-1982;
  Ord. 85-13, §§ 1, 2, 6-3-1985; Ord. 87-30, § 1, 4-6-1987)
Secs. 15-21-15-35. Reserved:
ARTICLE III. UTILITY TAX 1
 
Notes
  Utilities,
  chapter 16
1  of this code; cable television franchise, appendix C, article I of this code;
  gas franchise, appendix C, article II of this code; electricity franchise,
  appendix C, article III of this code.
Sec. 15-36. Definitions:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
   Gross Receipts: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas and electricity for use or consumption and not for
resale, as the case may be; and for all service rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith, and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
   Person: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no municipal utility tax shall be assessed upon
bills for utility service rendered to the municipality itself.
   Person Maintaining A Place Of Business In This State: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
   Purchase At Retail: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in section 8-11-2 of the
Illinois municipal code 1 , directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
   Purchaser: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the city, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, other than from an
exempt purchaser.
   Tax Collector: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser. (Ord. 82-
48, § 4, 11-22-1982; Ord. 85-19, § 1, 7-8-1985; Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998;
Ord. 70-2002, § 2, 8-26-2002)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
Sec. 15-37. Imposed:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
      (1)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom. For bills issued on or after March 1, 2001, up to and
including August 31, 2001, said five percent (5%) tax rate shall be reduced to
three and two-tenths percent (3.2%). Thereafter the five percent (5%) tax rate
shall resume, unless extended by action of the city council.
      (2)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the city and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the
gross receipts therefrom, excluding, however, from those gross receipts,
receipts collected for street lighting at the municipal rate. The tax imposed
under this section shall not apply with respect to gross receipts pertaining to
bills for the distribution, supply, furnishing or sale of electricity where the
use or consumption of the electricity is subject to the tax imposed under
subsection (3) of this section.
      (3)   a. Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code 2 and
any and all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of
using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or
consumed within the corporate limits of the city at the following rates,
calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
            1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.4539 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.2977 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.2679 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.2604 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.2530 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.2381 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.2344 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.2307 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.2270 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month; 0.2232 cents per kilowatt-hour.
         b.   The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue
measures imposed by the city, the state or any other political subdivision of
the state.
         c.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax
shall not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the
tax would violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the
constitution of the state.
         d.   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption
of electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on
or after October 1, 1998; and with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to
such customers for delivery services in accordance with section 16-104 of the
public utilities act 3 , or the first bill issued to such customers on or after
January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner. (Ord. 82-48, 11-22-1982;
Ord. 86-48, 9-15-1986; Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998; Ord. 98-72, § 1, 9-28-1998;
Ord. 09-2001, § 1, 2-5-2001; Ord. 20-2001, § 1, 2-26-2001; Ord. 70-2002, § 2,
8-26-2002)
 
Notes
2 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3 220 ILCS 5/16-104.
Sec. 15-37.1. Collection Of Tax:
   (a)   Subject to the provision of section
15-37.3 of this article regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the
tax imposed under this article shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers electricity to such
purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time
and in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
   (b)   Any tax required to be collected by this article, and any tax in fact
collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the city by the person delivering
the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be
allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges
for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax.
   (c)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect
to reimburse them for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the city upon request. (Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-37.2. Tax Remittance And Return:
   (a)   Every tax collector shall, on a monthly basis, file a return on a form
prescribed by the city. The return and accompanying remittance shall be due on
or before the last day of the month following the month during which the tax is
collected or is required to be collected under section
15-37.1 of this article.
   (b)   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under section
15-37.3 of this article, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form
prescribed by the city and pay the tax directly to the city on or before the
last day of the month following the month during which the electricity is used
or consumed. (Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-37.3. Resales:
   (a)   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the city shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the city clerk
and furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity, and
certifies to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially
nontaxable as a sale for resale.
   (b)   If a person who receives electricity in the city claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the city clerk
for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it is not
liable for the tax imposed by this article on any purchases of electricity and
shall furnish such additional information as the city clerk may reasonably
require.
   (c)   Upon approval of the application the city clerk shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   (d)   The city clerk may cancel the resale number of any person if the
person fails to pay any tax payable under this article for electricity used or
consumed by the person, or if the number: 1) was obtained through
misrepresentation, or 2) is no longer necessary because the person has
discontinued making resales.
   (e)   (1) If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this article directly to the city pursuant to subsection
15-37.1(b) of this article on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses
or consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to section
15-37 of this article and remit the tax pursuant to subsection
15-37.2(a) of this article on the amount of electricity delivered by the
reseller to a purchaser.
      (2)   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the city the
total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such other
information that the city may reasonably require. (Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-37.4. Books And Records:
Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by
subsection
15-37(3) of this article shall keep accurate books and records of its business
or activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting the
transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under
this chapter. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection at all times during business hours of the day. (Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-
24-1998)
Sec. 15-38. Certain Businesses Exempt:
No tax is imposed by this article with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
this state or any political subdivision thereof. (Ord. 82-48, 11-22-1982; Ord.
98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998; Ord. 70-2002, § 2, 8-26-2002)
Sec. 15-39. Tax Additional To Franchise Fee, Etc.:
Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or
services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for the
use of its streets, alleys, or other public place, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (Ord. 82-48, 11-22-
1982; Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-40. Returns:
   (a)   On or before February 28, 1983, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the city finance director for the month of January 1983, stating:
      (1)   His name.
      (2)   His principal place of business.
      (3)   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during those months
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
      (4)   Amount of tax.
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
On or before the last day of every month, each taxpayer shall make a like
return to the city finance director for a corresponding one month period.
   (b)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the city finance director the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may,
if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such bills and the taxable gross
receipts. (Ord. 82-48, 11-22-1982; Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-41. Credit For Overpayment:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor, shall be so credited. If a taxpayer
under this chapter is unable to use a credit authorized by this section solely
because the tax imposed by this chapter has been replaced by the tax imposed
under subsection
15-37(3) of this chapter then the taxpayer may apply such credit against any
tax due under subsection 15-37(3) of this chapter. (Ord. 82-48, 11-22-1982;
Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-42. Statute Of Limitations:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 82-48, 11-22-1982; Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-43. Penalties:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and in
addition shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due. (Ord. 82-
48, 11-22-1982; Ord. 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Secs. 15-44-15-50. Reserved:
ARTICLE IV. HOTEL-MOTEL TAX
Sec. 15-51. Definitions:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them as
follows:
   Facilitator. Any person or entity who provides a means through which a
person may book a hotel room to lessees, regardless of whether payment is
transferred through or processed by such facilitator. This includes web-based
platforms which allows for third parties to book accommodations at hotels, as
used herein. Online travel companies are considered facilitators, as used
herein. Facilitators are considered lessors, as used herein.
   Gross Rent. The total amount of consideration for occupancy, valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash,
credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, including but not
limited to, amounts charged for the making, booking, facilitating or servicing
of reservations. Gross rent means both (a) the "net rate" paid to the hotel or
motel by a Facilitator for room occupancy by the consumer; and (b) the amount
retained by the facilitator for travel-related services provided to the
consumer (sometimes referred to as a "facilitation fee"), and any additional
amounts retained by the facilitator as compensation for its services to the
consumer for the individual transaction, or, in the instance of a consumer's
direct rental of a room with the hotel or motel, gross rent shall mean the
amount charged by the hotel or motel directly to the consumer for the occupancy
of the room.
   Hotel. A structure kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held out to
the public to be an inn, motel, hotel, apartment, home, lodging house,
dormitory or place where sleeping, rooming, office, conference or exhibition
accommodations are furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals.
A hotel does not include any facilities maintained or operated by a church,
public or private school, or a not for profit association or corporation.
   Lessor. Any person having a sufficient proprietary interest in conducting
the operation of a hotel, or receiving the consideration for the rental of all
or part of such hotel, so as to entitle such person to all or a portion of the
net receipts thereof, including facilitators, as defined herein.
   Lessee. Any person who pays for the privilege of occupying all or part of a
hotel.
   Online Travel Company. An organization that books, reserves, or rents hotel
or motel rooms and makes other travel arrangements for consumers via the World
Wide Web, internet or other digital means. Online travel companies are
considered facilitators, as used herein.
   Permanent Resident. Any person who has occupied or has the right to occupy
all or part of a hotel for more than thirty (30) consecutive days. A person who
works and lives in the same hotel is also considered a permanent resident.
   Person. Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, co-partnership, joint
venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise, whenever the
term "Person" is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part-owners thereof,
and as applied to corporations, the offices thereof, or any other entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. (Ord. 84-68, 12-27-1984;
Ord. 074-2021, 12-14-2021; Ord. 36-2024, 6-10-2024)
Sec. 15-52. Hotel Use Tax Imposed:
   (a)   There is levied and imposed a tax of seven (7) percent of the Gross
Rent charged for the privilege and use of renting a Hotel room within the City
for each twenty-four (24) hour period or any portion thereof for which a room
charge is made.
   (b)   Accommodations within said buildings or structures which are leased to
the same
occupant for a period of more than thirty (30) consecutive days shall be exempt
from the tax provisions of this Article.
   (c)   Lessors renting or leasing Hotel rooms within the City are required to
collect the Hotel Use Tax; however, the ultimate incidence of any liability for
payment of the tax is to be borne by the Lessee.
   (d)   The Hotel Use Tax shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes
and charges.
   (e   )It shall be the duty of every Lessor of every Hotel within the City to
separately state such tax at the seven (7) percent rate upon the total amount
of compensation charged for the use of the Hotel. The Lessor shall also state
separately the amount of tax on the invoice for the transaction that will be
tendered to the Lessee.
   (f)   It shall be the duty of every Lessor of every Hotel within the City to
collect the tax from the Lessee at the time the Lessee pays for the privilege
of occupying all or part of a Hotel, and to remit to the City the tax under
procedures provided for in this chapter or otherwise prescribed by the City. If
more than one Person is the Lessor as related to a particular transaction, the
Lessors are jointly and severally responsible for collecting and remitting the
tax.
   (g)   It shall not be a defense to this ordinance that the Lessor is not
licensed by the City to rent Hotels and the Lessor will still be required to
remit the proper tax to the City. (Ord. 84-68, 12-27-1984; Ord. 91-12, 2-11-
1991; Ord. 003-2010, 1-18-2010; Ord. 011-2010, 3-8-2010; Ord. 074-2021, 12-14-
2021)
Sec. 15-53. Rules And Regulations.
   The City Finance Director may promulgate rules and regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter concerning enforcement and
application of this chapter. The phrase "rules and regulations" includes, but
is not limited to, case-by-case determination of whether or not the tax imposed
by this chapter applies. (Ord. 074-2021, 12-14-2021)
Sec. 15-54. Books And Records:
   The finance director may enter the premises of any hotel or motel for
inspection and examination of records in order to effectuate the proper
administration of this article, and to assure the enforcement of the collection
of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or
interfere with the finance director in the discharge of his duties in the
performance of this article. It shall be the duty of every owner to keep
accurate and complete books and records to which the finance director shall at
all times have full access, which records shall include a daily sheet showing:.
   (a)   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the twenty four (24)
hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel room where
such shall occur; and
   (b)   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collection for the date in
question. (Ord. 84-68, 12-27-1984; Ord. 074-2021, 12-14-2021)
Sec. 15-55. Transmittal Of Tax Revenue:
   (a)   The Lessor of each Hotel within the City shall file returns and remit
collected taxes, to the City Finance Department showing tax receipts received
with respect to each Hotel during each monthly period commencing on January 01,
2022, and continuing on the first day of every month thereafter on forms
prescribed by the City. The return shall be due on or before the last day of
the calendar month succeeding the end of the monthly filing period. Each Lessor
shall file an application with the City for a City Taxpayer Identification
Number prior to filing its first tax return.
   (b)   If the owner's average monthly tax receipts do not exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00) when using as a minimum the last six (6) consecutive months
for a database, the Finance Director may authorize the owners to file the
return on a quarterly basis per the below schedule.
   (1)   January, February, and March of a given year being due on or before
April 30 of such year
   (2)   April, May, and June of a given year being due on or before July 31 of
such year
   (3)   July, August, and September of a given year being due on or before
October 31 of such year
   (4)   October, November, and December of a given year being due on or before
January 31 of the following year
   (c)   The first taxing period for the purpose of this chapter shall commence
on January 01, 2022; and the tax return and payment for such period shall be
due on or before February 28, 2022. Thereafter, reporting periods and tax
payments shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. At the
time of filing such tax returns, the owner shall pay to the City all taxes due
for the period to which the tax return applies. (Ord. 84-68, 12-27-1984; Ord.
058-2018, 10-8-2018; Ord. 074-2021, 12-14-2021)
Sec. 15-56. Penalties:
   (a)   Any person found guilty of failing to pay, collect, report, or
transmit the Hotel or Motel Tax to the Finance Director in accordance with the
terms of this article shall, except when otherwise specifically provided, be
guilty of an offense, and upon the first conviction therefor within a two (2)
year calendar period be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than two hundred ninety nine dollars ($299.00) and upon the
second and third convictions therefor within the same period be punished by a
fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (b)   Repeated offenses of this article in excess of three (3) within any
two (2) calendar years shall constitute misdemeanors and upon conviction
therefor shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), incarceration in a place other than a penitentiary for a term not to
exceed thirty (30) days, or both.
   (c)   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each
day upon which the person shall continue any violation of this article, or
permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. (Ord. 84-68, 12-
27-1984; Ord. 074-2021, 12-14-2021)
Sec. 15-57. Other Actions Authorized:
The officers, employees and/or agents of the City shall take all action
necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate
the amendments contemplated by this ordinance and shall take all action
necessary in conformity therewith. The officers, employees and/or agents of the
City are specifically authorized and directed to draft and disseminate any and
all necessary forms to be utilized in connection with these amendments. Any and
all actions previously performed by officials, employees and/or agents of the
City in connection with carrying out and consummating the intent of this
ordinance are hereby authorized, approved and ratified by this reference. (Ord.
074-2021, 12-14-2021)
Secs. 15-58 – 15-59. Reserved:
ARTICLE V. MOTOR FUEL TAX
Sec. 15-60. Definitions:
For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section:
   Bulk User: Any person who purchases motor fuel for storage in bulk storage
facilities located within the City, which facilities are owned, leased or
controlled by that person, for subsequent dispensing into the supply tanks of
internal combustion engines operated by that person.
   Gasohol: A fuel used chiefly in internal combustion engines which is
comprised chiefly of gasoline and ethyl alcohols in variable quantities.
   Gasoline Or Diesel Fuel: A volatile, highly flammable or combustible, liquid
mixture of hydrocarbons produced by the fractional distillation of petroleum
and used chiefly as a fuel in internal combustion engines, but shall not
include mixtures commonly known as kerosene and aviation fuel, or mixtures used
in the heating of buildings.
   Motor Fuel: "Gasohol" and gasoline and diesel fuel as defined in this
section.
   Person: Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation,
business, trust, institution, agency, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees, or other
representative acting either for himself or for any other person in any
capacity, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and
duties. The masculine, feminine, singular or plural is included in any
circumstances.
   Retail Gasoline Dealer: Any person who engages in the business of selling
motor fuel in the City to a purchaser for use or consumption and not for resale
in any form.
   Sale, Resale, Selling: Any transfer of ownership or possession, or both,
exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a valuable consideration. (Ord. 87-21, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 15-61. Tax Imposed:
   (a)   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the purchase of each gallon of
motor fuel, or fraction thereof, sold at retail within the corporate limits of
the City, irrespective of the unit of measure in which it is actually sold, a
tax at the rate of five cents ($0.05) per gallon effective February 1, 2019.
The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes and
charges.
   (b)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is to
be borne by the retail purchase of motor fuel. Nothing in this article shall be
construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of persons engaged in the retail
sale of motor fuel.
   (c)   It shall be the duty of every retail gasoline dealer to secure the tax
from the purchaser at the time the dealer collects the purchase price for the
motor fuel and to pay over the tax to the City Finance Department, as provided
in this article except in the case of a sale to a bulk user, in which case the
bulk user shall pay over the tax to the Finance Department as provided in this
article.
   (d)   A retail gasoline dealer may make tax free sales with respect to which
he is otherwise required to collect the tax when the sale is made to the
Federal government, the State, any municipality, or any unit of local
government as those terms are defined by section 1 of article VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, 1970, or any school district. (Ord. 87-
21, 3-23-1987; Ord. 003-2010, 1-18-2010; Ord. 011-2010, 3-8-2010; Ord. 053-
2017, 12-18-2017; Ord. 075-2018, 12-17-2018)
Sec. 15-62. Tax And Report Transmittal:
   (a)   Every retail gasoline dealer shall transmit to the Finance Department
for receipt by that department, no later than the last day of each calendar
month, a sum of money equal to the amount of Motor Fuel Tax collected for the
preceding calendar month, accompanied by the report upon forms supplied by the
Finance Department indicating the gross gallons of motor fuel sold for the
preceding calendar month, and such other information as the Finance Department
may require for enforcement of this article.
   (b)   Every bulk user shall transmit to the Finance Department for receipt
by that department, no later than the last day of each calendar month, a sum of
money equal to the amount of Motor Fuel Tax owning for the preceding calendar
month, accompanied by a report upon forms supplied by the Finance Department
indicating the gross gallons of motor fuel purchased for the preceding calendar
month, and such other information as the Finance Department may require for
enforcement of this article. (Ord. 87-21, § 1, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 15-63. Records, Inspections:
   (a)   Every retail gasoline dealer shall keep complete and accurate records,
including a daily sheet showing the gross gallons of motor fuel sold for each
day, and the amount of motor fuel tax collected on each day.
   (b)   Every bulk user shall keep complete and accurate records of purchases,
the gross gallons purchased on each of those dates, and the names and addresses
of the retail gasoline dealers from whom each of the purchases were made.
   (c)   For the purpose of administering and enforcing this article, the
Finance Department shall have the right to inspect all books, records and
reports of retail gasoline dealers and bulk users during their normal business
hours. (Ord. 87-21, § 1, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 15-64. Accounting:
The Finance Department shall deliver the proceeds of the Motor Fuel Tax imposed
by this article to the Finance Director for deposit to the General Fund. (Ord.
87-21, § 1, 3-23-1987)
Sec. 15-65. Penalty, Interest On Delinquent Taxes, Enforcement:
   (a)   Any person who violates any provision of this article, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the first offense
and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second and each
subsequent offense committed within any one hundred eighty (180) day period.
Each day during which such violation continues shall be regarded as a separate
punishable offense.
   (b)   If any tax imposed by this article is not paid when due, a late
payment penalty equal to five percent (5%) of the unpaid tax shall be added for
each month, or any portion thereof, that the late payment penalty shall be paid
along with the tax imposed.
   (c)   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, or
otherwise violates any provision of this article, the City Attorney shall bring
or cause to be brought an action on behalf of the City in any court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce this article and collect any delinquent tax,
interest and penalties. (Ord. 87-21, 3-23-1987; Ord. 058-2018, 10-8-2018)
Sec. 15-66. Effective Date, Severability:
   (a)   The Motor Fuel Tax shall be levied, imposed and collected from and
after the effective date of this article.
   (b)   If any one or more provisions of this article, or any clause, sentence
or paragraph thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances
is held invalid, the remainder of this article and the application of such
provisions or clause, sentence or paragraph thereof as to other persons, or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 87-21, § 1, 3-23-1987)
Secs. 15-67-15-69. Reserved:
ARTICLE VI. GAS USE TAX
Sec. 15-70. Title:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Rock Island Gas Use Tax
Ordinance". The tax shall be known as the "Rock Island Gas Use Tax" and is
imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the City, the State, or any
other municipal corporation or political subdivision of the State. (Ord. 98-62,
§ 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-71. Definitions:
When any of the following words or terms are used in this Article, it shall
have the meaning ascribed to it in this Section:
   City: City of Rock Island, Illinois.
   Department Or Department Of Revenue: The Department of Finance of the City.
   Director Or Director Of Finance: The Director of Finance of the City.
   Manager: The City Manager of the City.
   Person: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation or political subdivision of this
State, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by
the order of any court.
   Public Utilities Act: The Public Utilities Act, as amended, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 et seq.
   Public Utility: A public utility as defined in section 3-105 of the Public
Utilities Act.
   Retail Purchaser: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
   Rock Island Utility Tax: The tax imposed by Section
15-36 et seq. of this Chapter on persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas.
   Sale At Retail: Any sale by a retailer to a person for use or consumption,
and not for resale. For this purpose, the term "retailer" means any person
engaged in the business of distribution, supplying, furnishing or selling gas.
(Ord. 98-62, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-72. Tax Imposed:
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided by this Section, a tax is imposed on the
privilege of using or consuming in the City gas that is purchased in a sale at
retail. The tax shall be at the rate of $0.015 per therm.
   (b)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this Article shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
   (c)   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser's premises: 1) to the public utility
designated to collect the tax pursuant to Section
15-74 of this Article on or before the payment due date of the public utility's
bill first reflecting the tax, or 2) directly to the Department on or before
the fifteenth day of the second month following the month in which the gas is
delivered to the retail purchaser if no public utility has been designated to
collect the tax pursuant to Section
15-74 of this Article or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a
public utility so designated.
   (d)   The tax shall not apply to the use or consumption of gas by: 1) a
person purchasing the gas for use in operating or propelling a vehicle, or
vehicle fuel, as that term is defined by this Code, or 2) a public utility
engaged in the business of distributing gas.
   (e)   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the City by a retail
purchaser properly subject to a tax imposed by any state or by the City or any
other municipality with respect to the sale at retail of such gas, whether such
tax is imposed: 1) upon the retail purchaser, or 2) upon the seller and
separately charged to the retail purchaser by the seller, shall be exempt from
the tax imposed by this Article. For purposes of this subsection only, any
charge imposed on a retail purchaser pursuant to section 9-221 or section 9-222
of the Public Utilities Act with respect to a sale at retail shall be treated
as a tax properly imposed on the retail purchaser by the State or by this City
or other municipality.
   (f)   A purchaser who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay
the tax imposed by this article with respect to the use or consumption of the
gas, but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the department on or before the fifteenth day of the second month
following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   (g)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the constitution of the United States
or state of Illinois, may not be made the subject of taxation by the city.
   (h)   The tax shall apply to a gas for which the delivery to the customer is
billed by a public utility after August 31, 1998. (Ord. 98-62, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-73. Complementary Relation To Rock Island Utility Tax:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the tax shall not apply to
the use or consumption of gas if the gross receipts from the sale of the gas
would not be taxable under the Rock Island utility tax despite all elements of
the sale occurring in the city. (Ord. 98-62, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-74. Collection Of Tax:
   (a)   The director is authorized to enter into a contract for collection of
the tax imposed by this article with any public utility providing gas service
in the city. The contract shall include and substantially conform with the
following provisions: 1) the public utility will collect the tax with respect
to gas delivered by it to its customers as an independent contractor; 2) the
public utility will remit collected taxes to the department no more often than
once each month; 3) the public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax
collections a service fee equal to three percent (3%) of the amounts collected
and timely remitted to the department; 4) the public utility will treat partial
payments received from a customer as payments made pro rata for each item or
charge billed to the customer, including the tax imposed by this article; 5)
the obligation of the public utility to collect and remit the tax shall not
apply to gas billed by the public utility to a retail purchaser prior to a date
two (2) months subsequent to the execution of such contract; 6) the public
utility shall not be liable to the city for any tax not actually collected from
a retail purchaser; 7) the public utility shall report to the city at least
monthly a list of customers from whom the tax is collected, the number of
therms delivered and the weighted average cost of gas calculation; and 8) such
additional terms as the parties may agree upon.
   (b)   A public utility designated to collect the tax imposed by this article
from its customers shall bill each customer for the tax on all gas delivered to
the customer unless: 1) the customer's use or consumption is exempt from the
tax pursuant to section 15-72 of this article because the customer's purchase
of the gas is subject to a charge authorized by section 9-221 or 9-222 of the
Public Utilities Act, or 2) the public utility has received a written
certificate issued by the city authorizing the public utility not to collect
tax on deliveries to the customers. (Ord. 98-62, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-75. Books And Records:
   (a)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including
original source documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or
transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability or
exemption under this chapter. All such books and records shall be kept in the
English language and, at all times during business hours of the day, shall be
subject to and available for inspection by the department.
   (b)   City shall have the right to audit the records of MidAmerican at
reasonable times mutually agreeable to MidAmerican and city concerning the
customers from whom the tax is collected and the number of therms delivered
thereto. (Ord. 98-62, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-76. Rules And Regulations:
The director is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce reasonable rules
and regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
article. (Ord. 98-62, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 15-77. Penalty Provision:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this article or failing to
remit the tax owed shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) or five (5) times the amount of tax imposed, whichever is greater.
A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon
which said person shall continue any such violation or permit any such
violation to exist after notification thereof. (Ord. 98-62, § 1, 8-24-1998)
ARTICLE VII. TAX INCREMENT FINANCE
Sec. 15-78. Interested Parties Registration Rules:
   (a)   Definitions: As used in these registration rules, the following terms
shall have the definitions set forth below:
   Act: The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   City: The city of Rock Island, a home rule unit of government under section
6(a) article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the state of Illinois.
   Interested Party(s): 1) Any organization(s) active within the city of Rock
Island, 2) any residents of the city of Rock Island, and 3) any other entity or
person otherwise entitled under the act to register in a specific registry who
has registered in such registry and whose registration has not been terminated
in accordance with these registration rules.
   Redevelopment Project Area: A redevelopment project area that: 1) is
intended to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a "redevelopment project
area" under the act; and 2) is subject to the "interested parties" registry
requirements of the act.
   Registration Form: The form appended to these registration rules or such
revised form as may be approved by the city of Rock Island consistent with the
requirements of the act.
   Registry Or Registries: Each interested parties registry and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city of Rock Island pursuant to
section 11-74.4-4.2 of the act for the redevelopment project area.
   (b)   Establishment Of Registry: The city shall establish a separate
interested parties registry for each redevelopment project area, whether
existing as of the date of the adoption of these rules or hereinafter
established. The city shall establish a new registry whenever it has identified
an area for study and possible designation as a redevelopment project area. In
any event the process of establishing the new registry must be completed prior
to the deadline for sending any of the notices required by subsection (j) of
this section or any other notices required by the act with respect to the
proposed redevelopment project area.
   (c)   Maintenance Of Registry: The registries shall be maintained by the
community and economic development director or his designee. In the event the
city determines that a person other than the community and economic development
director should maintain registries the city may transfer the responsibility
for maintaining the registries to such other department provided the city gives
prior written notice to all interested parties not less than thirty (30) days
prior to such transfer and publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city.
   (d)   Registration By Residents: An individual seeking to register as an
interested party with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and
submit a registration form to the community and economic development director
or his designee. Such individual must also submit a copy of a current driver's
license, lease, utility bill, financial statement or such other evidence as may
be acceptable to establish the individual's current city of Rock Island
residency.
   (e)   Registration Of Organizations: An organization seeking to register as
an interested party with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete
and submit a registration form to the community and economic development
director or his designee. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one-
page statement describing the organization's current operations in the city of
Rock Island.
   (f)   Determination Of Eligibility: All individuals and organizations whose
registration form and supporting documentation complies with these registration
rules shall be registered in the applicable registry within ten (10) business
days of the community and economic development director's receipt of all such
documents. The community and economic development director shall provide
written notice to the registrant confirming such registration. Upon
registration interested parties shall be entitled to receive all notices and
documents required to be delivered under these rules or as otherwise required
under the act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project area. If the
community and economic development director determines that a registrant's
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with these registration rules, the community and economic development
director shall give notice to the registrant specifying the defect(s). The
registrant shall be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new
registration form and supporting documentation.
   (g)   Renewal And Termination: An interested party's registration shall
remain effective for a period of three (3) years. At any time after such three
(3) year period the city may provide written notice by regular mail to the
interested party stating that such registration shall terminate unless the
interested party renews such registration within thirty (30) days of the
mailing of the written notice. To renew such registration, the interested party
shall within a thirty (30) day period complete and submit the same registration
form and supporting documentation as required of initial registrants in order
to permit the community and economic development director to confirm such
person's residency or such organization's operations in the city of Rock
Island. The registration of all individuals and organizations whose
registration form and supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner
and complies with these registration rules shall be renewed for an additional,
consecutive three (3) year period. If the community and economic development
director determines that a registrant's renewal registration form and/or
supporting documentation is incomplete or does not comply with these
registration rules, the community and economic development director shall give
written notice to the registrant at the address specified in the renewal
registration form submitted by such registrant, specifying the defect(s). The
registrant shall be entitled to correct any defect(s) and resubmit a new
registration form and supporting documentation within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the notice. If all defects are not corrected within thirty (30) days
of the interested party's receipt of the community and economic development
director's notice, the interested party's registration shall be terminated. Any
interested party whose registration is terminated shall be entitled to register
again as if a first-time registrant.
   (h)   Amendment To Registration: An interested party may amend its
registration by giving written notice to the community and economic development
director by certified mail of any of the following: 1) a change in address for
notice purposes; 2) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and 3) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the community and economic development director shall revise the
applicable registry accordingly.
   (i)   Registries Available For Public Inspection: Each registry shall be
available for public inspection during normal city business hours. The registry
shall include the name, address and telephone number of each interested party
and for organizations the name and telephone number of the designated contact
person.
   (j)   Noninterference: These registration rules shall not be used to
prohibit or otherwise interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and
individuals to register for receipt of information to which they are entitled
under the act.
   (k)   Amendment Of Registration Rules: These registration rules may be
amended by the city of Rock Island subject to and consistent with the
requirements of the act.
   (l)   Registration Forms:
   TAX INCREMENT FINANCE
   INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRATION FORM
   REGISTRATION FORM FOR ORGANIZATION
If your organization is active in the City of Rock Island and would like to
register on the Interested Parties Registry for one or more tax increment
financing (TIF) redevelopment project areas, please complete this form. Please
attach a one-page statement which describes the organization's current
operations in the city to this form.
Complete the following (please print):
Organization Name                       
Contact Person Name                       
Street Address                       
City                                                              State
                                         Zip Code               
Telephone                                                   Fax
                                           
Please check the TIF's you are interested in:
   € TIF District #1 - Downtown
   € TIF District #2 - 11th Street South
   € TIF District #3 - 11th Street North
Signature
                                                                          Date
   
This form can be mailed, faxed or delivered to:
   TIF Interested Parties Registry
   Community and Economic Development Department
   City of Rock Island
   1528 3rd Avenue
   Rock Island, IL 61201
   FAX 732-2930
Should you have questions or need additional information please call 732-2920.
TAX INCREMENT FINANCE
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRATION FORM
   REGISTRATION FORM FOR RESIDENTS
If you are a City of Rock Island resident and would like to register on the
Interested Parties Registry for one or more tax increment financing (TIF)
redevelopment project areas, please complete this form. Proof of residency is
required. Please attach a photocopy of one of the following: driver's license,
lease, utility bill, financial statement, or such other evidence as may be
suitable to establish your current city residency.
Complete the following (please print):
Name
                                                                                        
Street Address                                                                 
Zip Code                                                    Home Telephone
                       
I have attached a copy of                                as proof that I am a
resident of the City of Rock Island as of the date of this registration form.
Please check the TIF(s) you are interested in
   € TIF District #1 - Downtown
   € TIF District #2 - 11th Street South
   € TIF District #3 - 11th Street North
Signature
                                                                          Date
   
This form can be mailed, faxed or delivered to:
   TIF Interested Parties Registry
   Community and Economic Development Department
   City of Rock Island
   1528 3rd Avenue
   Rock Island, IL 61201
   FAX 732-2930
Should you have questions or need additional information please call 732-2920.
(Ord. 22-2000, § 3, 4-3-2000)
ARTICLE VIII. LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
Sec. 15-79. Title:
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-
18-2000)
Sec. 15-80. Scope:
The provisions of this article shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-81. Definitions:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
   Act: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
   City: The city of Rock Island, Illinois.
   Corporate Authorities: The city's mayor and city council.
   Hearing Officer: Is as defined in section
4-147 of this code.
   Local Tax Administrator: The city's finance director is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
article to give full effect to this article. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this article and the
act.
   Locally Imposed And Administered Tax Or Tax: Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   Notice: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   Tax Ordinance: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   Taxpayer: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-82. Notices:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
      (1)   First-class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-83. Late Payment:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: 1)
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or 2) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-84. Payment:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: 1) first to the tax due for the applicable period; 2) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and 3) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-85. Certain Credits And Refunds:
   (a)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (b)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (c)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-86. Audit Procedure:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this article.
      (1)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
         a.   The tax;
         b.   The time period of the audit; and
         c.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
      (2)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      (3)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
      (4)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
      (5)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
      (6)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
      (7)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-87. Appeal:
   (a)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (b)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination
and assessment.
   (c)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (d)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   (e)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-88. Hearing:
   (a)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
15-87 of this article, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal. The taxpayer may request that a hearing officer conduct
the hearing rather than the local tax administrator.
   (b)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
   (c)   At the hearing the local tax administrator/hearing officer shall
preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax
determination, audit or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply.
   (d)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator/hearing
officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with
a copy of the written decision. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-89. Interest And Penalties:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
      (1)   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
      (2)   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late
filing penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown
as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent
(5%) of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-
2000)
Sec. 15-90. Abatement:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-91. Installment Contracts:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-92. Statute Of Limitations:
The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
(4) years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year
period for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by
the city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-93. Voluntary Disclosure:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-
18-2000)
Sec. 15-94. Publication Of Tax Ordinances:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-95. Liens For Unpaid Taxes:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-96. Application:
This article shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this article, this article shall be controlling.
(Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-97. Severability:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this article shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this article. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
Sec. 15-98. Effective Date:
This article shall be in full force and effect, after passage, approval and
publication as required by law. (Ord. 88-2000, § 1, 12-18-2000)
ARTICLE IX. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
Sec. 15-99. Definitions:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   Amount Paid: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   Department: The Illinois department of revenue.
   Gross Charge: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this municipality, charges for the channel mileage between each
channel point within this municipality, and charges for that portion of the
interstate interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross
charge" shall not include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this article, b) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, c) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, d) 911 surcharges, or e) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section
9-222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this article has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      (7)   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
   Interstate Telecommunications: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   Intrastate Telecommunications: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   Person: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   Purchase At Retail: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   Retailer: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
   Retailer Maintaining A Place Of Business In This State (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   Sale At Retail: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   Service Address: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   Taxpayer: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this article.
   Telecommunications: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this article, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this article. For purposes of this article,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act. (Ord. 70-2002, § 4, 8-26-2002)
Sec. 15-100. Tax Imposed:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
      (1)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or
receiving in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a
rate of six percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications
purchased at retail from a retailer.
      (2)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or
receiving in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a
rate of six percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications
purchased at retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of
the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any
taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such
event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or
authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due
and paid in such other state which was not previously allowed as a credit
against any other state or local tax in this state.
      (3)   The tax imposed by this article is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 70-2002, § 4, 8-26-2002)
Sec. 15-101. Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
   (a)   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this article
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
department in the manner provided by the department.
   (b)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 70-2002, § 4, 8-26-2002)
Sec. 15-102. Returns To Department:
On or before the last day of February 2003, and on or before the last day of
every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this article on telecommunication
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement the
act. (Ord. 70-2002, § 4, 8-26-2002)
Sec. 15-103. Resellers:
   (a)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this article on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   (b)   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person having discontinued the making of resales.
   (c)   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 70-2002, § 4, 8-
26-2002)
Sec. 15-104. Severability:
If any provision of this article, or the application of any provision of this
article, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this article, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this article. (Ord. 70-
2002, § 4, 8-26-2002)
Sec. 15-105. Effective Date:
This article shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that: 1)
sections 2 and 3 shall take effect for all bills issued on or after January 1,
2003, 2) the tax provided for herein shall take effect for all bills issued on
or after January 1, 2003, and 3) any amounts due or payable to the municipality
for any tax periods ending prior to January 1, 2003, shall nevertheless remain
payable as if this article had not been adopted. Copies of ordinance 70-2002
shall be certified and sent to the Illinois department of revenue prior to
October 1, 2002. (Ord. 70-2002, § 4, 8-26-2002)
Sec. 15-106. Repealer:
If the simplified municipal telecommunications tax act is repealed or becomes
ineffective for any reason, or if this article is repealed or becomes
ineffective for any reason, then the provisions repealed in ordinance 82-48,
11-22-1982, ordinance 85-19, § 1, 7-8-1985, ordinance 86-48, 9-15-1986,
ordinance 97-81, 10-6-1997, ordinance 98-61, § 1, 8-24-1998, ordinance 98-72, §
1, 9-28-1998, ordinance 09-2001, § 1, 2-5-2001, ordinance 20-2001, § 1, 2-26-
2001, as they apply to telecommunications taxes, shall be deemed in full force
and effect as of the date the simplified municipal telecommunications tax act
or this article is repealed or becomes ineffective. (Ord. 70-2002, §§ 2, 3, 8-
26-2002)
ARTICLE X. PREPARED FOOD AND LIQUOR TAX
Sec. 15-107. Definitions:
For the purpose of this article, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following words or terms shall have the meanings respectively applied to them:
   Liquor: Any "alcohol", "spirits", "wine" or "beer" as defined, set forth and
regulated in chapter 3 of this code, which is sold at retail either for
consumption on the premises where sold or is sold in its original package for
consumption off the premises.
   Prepared Food Facility: Establishments subject to the licensing requirements
of
chapter 7 of this code as a food service establishment which sells prepared
food at retail for immediate consumption and which provides for on and/or off
premises consumption whether or not such facility is conducted along with any
other use(s) in a common premises or business establishment.
               (a)   "Prepared food facility" does not include food store
(except facilities therein which sell prepared food and liquor), churches,
public or private schools, boarding houses, daycare centers, nursing homes,
retirement centers or similar residential care facilities or programs for the
central preparation of meals to be delivered and consumed at private residences
of invalids or the elderly, coin operated automatic food item dispensing
machines, hospital (except facilities therein, subject to the state of Illinois
retailer occupation tax pertaining to food sales) and facilities of not for
profit associations or corporations.
   Prepared Foods: Any solid, liquid (including both alcoholic and nonalcoholic
liquid), powder or other food substance used, or intended to be used, for human
consumption, and which has been prepared for immediate consumption on and/or
off the premises.
   Purchase At Retail: To obtain for use or consumption in exchange for a
consideration, whether in the form of money, credits, barter or any other
nature, and not for resale.
   Retailer: Any person who sells or offers for sale, prepared food and/or
liquor for use and not for resale.
   Retailer Liquor Facility: Any establishment licensed under the provisions of
chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 10-2004, § 1, 1-26-2004)
Sec. 15-108. Tax Imposed:
Commencing on April 1, 2011, a tax, in addition to any and all other taxes, is
imposed upon the purchase of prepared foods and liquor at retail at any
prepared food facility or liquor facility within the city of Rock Island, at
the rate of 1.5 percent of the sales price of such prepared food and liquor,
the ultimate incidence of any liability for payment of which shall be borne by
the purchaser. (Ord. 009-2011, 2-14-2011)
Sec. 15-109. Collection Of Tax By Retailer:
The owner and operator of each prepared food facility and each liquor facility
within the city of Rock Island shall jointly and severally have the duty to
collect and account for the tax from each purchase at the time that the
consideration for the purchase is made. (Ord. 10-2004, § 1, 1-26-2004)
Sec. 15-110. Books And Records:
The owner and operator of each prepared food facility and each liquor facility
within the city of Rock Island shall jointly and severally have the duty to
maintain complete and accurate books, records and accounts, showing the gross
receipts for sale of prepared food and liquor and the taxes collected each day,
which shall be made available to the city for examination and for audit by the
city upon reasonable notice and during customary business hours. (Ord. 10-2004,
§ 1, 1-26-2004)
Sec. 15-111. Transmission Of Tax Collection:
The owner and the operator of each prepared food facility and each liquor
facility within the city shall jointly and severally have the duty to cause to
be filed, a sworn return with the finance director for each facility and for
each licensed premises located in the city. The return shall be prepared and
submitted on forms prescribed by the city and filed on or before the last day
of the calendar month next succeeding the month for which the return is made.
The return shall also be accompanied by payment to the city of all taxes
imposed by this article, which are due and owing for the period covered by the
return. The return shall also be accompanied by a copy of the return filed with
the Illinois department of revenue for sales within the city of Rock Island
covering the same reporting period. (Ord. 10-2004, § 1, 1-26-2004)
Sec. 15-112. Late Payment Penalty:
If any tax imposed by this article is not paid when due, a late payment penalty
equal to five percent (5%) of the unpaid tax shall be added for each month, or
any portion thereof, that the tax remains unpaid and the late payment penalty
shall be paid along with the tax imposed. (Ord. 10-2004, § 1, 1-26-2004)
Sec. 15-113. Transmittal Of Excess Tax Collections:
If any person collects an amount upon a sale not subject to the tax imposed
hereby, but which amount is purported to be the collection of the tax, or if a
person collects an amount upon a sale greater than the amount of the tax
imposed herein and does not for any reason return it to the purchaser who paid
it before filing the return for the period in which it occurred, that person
shall account for and pay over those amounts to the city of Rock Island along
with the tax properly collected. (Ord. 10-2004, § 1, 1-26-2004)
Sec. 15-114. Enforcement License Suspension, Revocation:
Payment and collection of the tax and any late payment penalty may be enforced
by action in any court of competent jurisdiction and failure to collect,
account for and pay over the tax and any late payment penalty shall be cause
for suspension or revocation of any city license issued for the prepared food
facility or liquor facility applicable to the premises thereof, all in addition
to any other penalties in this chapter. (Ord. 10-2004, § 1, 1-26-2004)
Sec. 15-115. Rules And Regulations:
The finance director of the city of Rock Island may promulgate rules and
regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this article concerning the
enforcement and application of this article. The term "rules and regulations"
includes, but is not limited to, a case by case determination whether or not
the tax imposed by this articles applies. (Ord. 10-2004, § 1, 1-26-2004)
Sec. 15-116. Penalty:
Any person operating a prepared food facility or a liquor facility within the
city failing or omitting to pay the tax when due, or failing or omitting to
collect, or to account for, or to pay over the tax and any late payment
penalty, or failing to maintain or allow examination of the books and records
provided herein or elsewhere by law or ordinance, upon conviction, shall be
fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, and each day a violation continues shall
be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 10-2004, § 1, 1-26-2004)
ARTICLE XI. MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
Sec. 15-117.   Tax Imposed; Rate:
   (a)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
   (b)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord.
056-2019, 10-28-2019)
Sec. 15-118.   Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
   (a)   The tax imposed by this article shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
be held by the retailer in trust as a fiduciary until the funds are remitted to
the state. Retailers may reimburse themselves for their seller's tax liability
hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge
may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any state tax that
sellers are required to collect.
   (b)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 056-2019, 10- 28-2019)
ARTICLE XII. SELF-STORAGE FACILITY ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
Sec. 15-119. Self-Storage Facility Accommodations Tax Imposed:
There is imposed hereby and shall accrue immediately and be collected a tax, as
herein provided, upon the rental or leasing of any self-storage facility
accommodations in the City of Rock Island, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross rental or leasing charge. (Ord. 064-2020, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 15-120. Definition Of Self-Storage Facility:
A building or structure containing separately divided storage rooms offered for
lease or rent to members of the general public for the storage of personal
property, and/or property leased or rented to members of the general public for
the overnight parking or storage of vehicles. (Ord. 064-2020, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 15-121. Tax To Be Borne By Tenant:
The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall be borne
by the lessee or tenant of any such self-storage facility accommodations.
Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of
leasing or operating self-storage facilities. Each operator of a self-storage
facility shall have the duty to collect the self-storage facility accommodation
tax from each lessee and to pay it over to the City along with an accounting
therefore on the return forms provided by the City. The return and the tax
shall be filed with the Director of Finance/Treasurer on the same filing dates
as are established for filing with the Illinois Department of Revenue of the
Retailer's Occupation Tax Return Form ST-l or a subsequently required form.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager or operator of self-storage
facility accommodations to fail to cause said tax to be collected from the
lessee or tenant of said self-storage facility accommodations or to fail to
file any tax return required by this ordinance, or cause said tax to be paid
over to the Director of Finance/Treasurer under rules and regulations
prescribed by the Director of Finance/Treasurer and as otherwise provided for
in this article. (Ord. 064-2020, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 15-122. Self-Storage Facility To Secure Tax From Tenant:
The tax herein levied shall be collected by the self-storage facility owner,
manager or operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price, charge
or rent to which it applies. Every lessee or tenant shall be given a bill,
invoice, receipt, or other statement or memorandum of the price, charge or rent
payable upon which the self-storage facility accommodations tax shall be
stated, charged and shown separately. The self-storage facility accommodations
tax shall be paid to the Director of Finance/Treasurer as trustee thereof for
and on behalf of the City. (Ord. 064-2020, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 15-123. Records To Be Kept:
Each such owner, manager, or operator shall have the duty to maintain complete
and accurate books, records and accounts showing the gross receipts for the
lease of any self-storage facility accommodations within the City of Rock
Island and showing the prices, rents or charges made or charged, and
occupancies taxable under this self-storage facility accommodations tax. The
Director of Finance/Treasurer, or his/her designee, shall at all reasonable
times have full access to said books and records. (Ord. 064-2020, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 15-124. Enforcement:
Any self-storage facility who fails to timely pay all taxes due pursuant to
this article shall also pay a penalty equal to five percent (5%) of any such
unpaid tax and shall pay interest on any past due balance at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month. Any self-storage facility who fails to timely file a
tax return required pursuant to this article shall also pay a penalty equal to
five percent (5%) of any tax due during the period covered by the return. (Ord.
064-2020, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 15-125. Penalties:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this article may, in
addition to any tax or penalty due, be assessed a fine of not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day a violation continues to exist shall be a separate offense.
Citations for violations of this article shall be adjudicated by the City's
Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer, or at the choice of the City of
Rock Island, by any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 064-2020, 11-9-2020)
Chapter 16
UTILITIES 123
 
Notes
    See also chapter 4, "Buildings And Building Regulations"; chapter 6, "Fire
    Prevention And Protection"; chapter 7, "Health Generally"; chapter 8,
    "Licenses And Business Regulations"; chapter 9, "Motor Vehicles And
123 Traffic"; chapter 13, "Public Works, Streets And Sidewalks"; appendix B,
    "Subdivisions"; appendix C, article II, "Gas"; appendix C, article III,
    "Electricity"; § 4-3, "Plumbing Code Adopted"; § 4-4, "Mechanical Codes
    Adopted"; and chapter 15, article III, "Utility Tax", of this code.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 16-1. Ordinances Not Affected By Code:
Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance pertaining to specific locations which requires a hookon charge for
water or sewer service, which provides for the installation of utilities
underground or which authorizes a private sewer, and all such ordinances are
hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as
if set out at length in this code. (1963 Code, Ch. IX, Art. I)
Sec. 16-2. Article I.
Establishment of a Street Improvement Utility and a Street Improvement Fund:
   (a)   The City hereby establishes a Street Improvement Utility for the
maintenance, repair, and improvement of the public transportation system, such
as roads, sidewalks, parking lots, traffic signals, and street lighting,
ensuring the sustained functionality and safety of the transportation system
owned or operated by the City.
   (b)   The management and supervision of the Street Maintenance Utility shall
be under the direction of the Director of Public Works.
   (c)   The City hereby establishes a Street Improvement Fund. All revenues of
the Street Improvement Utility shall be deposited into the Street Improvement
Fund and used for purposes of the Street Improvement Utility as deemed
appropriate by the City Council. (Ord. 18-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 16-3. Definitions.
   City: The City of Rock Island, a municipal corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Illinois.
   Gross Area: The entire area of a parcel.
   Large Parcel (L): Gross area of a parcel that is greater than eighteen
thousand (18,000) but less than or equal to forty-three thousand five hundred
and sixty (43,560) square feet.
   Medium Parcel (M): Gross area of a parcel that is greater than six thousand
(6,000) but less than or equal to eighteen thousand (18,000) square feet.
   Public Transportation System: All transportation-related components located
on city-owned property, city right-of-way, and/or city easements within the
city's incorporated limits that the city is contractually or legally obligated
to operate and maintain, including, without limitation, streets, alleys, curbs
and gutters, bridges, sidewalks, paths, and improvements and installations
related to such components, which are designated for use by motor vehicles,
pedestrians, bicycles, and/or other similar vehicles.
   Small Parcel (S): Gross area of a parcel that is equal to or less than six
thousand (6,000) square feet.
   Extra Large Parcel (XL): Gross area of a parcel greater than forty-three
thousand five hundred and sixty (43,560) square feet. (Ord. 18-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 16-4. Scope Of Responsibility For The Street Improvement Utility.
   All fees collected under this chapter will be deposited into the city's
Street Improvement Fund. Street Improvement Fund revenues will be used to pay
the contracted costs and expenses of operating the Public Transportation
System, including, without limitation, costs and expenses associated with the
operation, maintenance, repair, engineering, improvement, renewal, safety,
replacement, and/or reconstruction of the Transportation System. It will not be
necessary that the maintenance and repair expenditures from the street
improvement fund relate to any particular property from which the fee(s) for
said purposes were collected.
   The Street Improvement Fee charges shall be determined by the City Council.
The revenue generated by Street Improvement Fee, together with any other
sources of revenue that may be made available to the Street Improvement Fund,
will be sufficient to meet the obligations of the Street Improvement Fee. (Ord.
18-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 16-5. Determination Of Fee Charges.
 
Customer Rate Per Month
S        $7.00
M        $10.00
L        $20.00
XL       $30.00
 
   (a)   All parcels in the city shall be charged a Street Improvement Fee,
except for street and highway rights-of-way owned by a township, Rock Island
County, the city, or the State of Illinois. (Ord. 18-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 16-6. Billing And Collection Procedures.
   (a)   Billings for the Street Improvement Utility shall be rendered by the
Finance Department on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis at the discretion
of the Finance Department.
   (b)   When Street Improvement Utility service charges are not paid on or
before the due date stated on the bill, a penalty of five percent (5%) shall be
added. Failure to receive a bill does not entitle the owner or customer to a
remission of the penalty.
   (c)   Written notice must be given by the parcel owner or authorized agent
if it is desired that bills be forwarded to any other address than the parcel
address.
   (d)   In the event that the City deems it necessary to refer past due Street
Improvement Utility service charges to the City Attorney or a collection agency
for collection, the City may additionally recover its actual expenses so
incurred, including court costs, collection agency fees, and reasonable
attorney fees.
   (e)   A Street Improvement Utility bill shall be considered delinquent if it
remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after rendition of the bill. (Ord. 18-2024,
4-8-2024)
Sec. 16-7. Service Charges Billed In Common.
   The Street Improvement Utility charge may be billed on a common statement
and collected along with other charges. If the Street Improvement Utility
charge is included on a common statement and the customer payment is
insufficient to pay the total of all portions of the statement, the payment
will be applied in the following priority.
   Street improvement charge.
   Refuse charge.
   Stormwater charge.
   Sewer charge.
   Water charge.
   Water service repair program charge.
   Sewer lateral repair program charge.
(Ord. 18-2024, 4-8-2024)
Sec. 16-8. Appeals.
   (a)   Property Owners are eligible for the following Appeals:
      (1)   Road Exemption: A property owner must demonstrate that access to
the subject parcel is achieved exclusively via privately owned roads, non-city-
maintained easements, or roads maintained by a governmental entity other than
the City of Rock Island, and that City roads are not accessed at all in order
to gain access to the parcel. The fact that a property is surrounded by exempt
roads does not satisfy the elements of this appeal, if the property owner uses
City owned roads to access these exempt roads.
      (2)   Service Charge: A property owner may file a service charge appeal
if they believe the gross area of their property has been miscalculated.
   (b)   Filing Requirement: An appeal must be filed in writing with the Public
Works Director and include the following documentation for each appeal:
      (1)   Road Exemption:
         a.   A notarized statement from the property owner describing the
means of access to the parcel;
         b.   A site plan showing access points and the roads or easements
used; and
         c.   Any additional supporting documentation confirming that the roads
are not owned by the City of Government including but not limited to, recorded
easements, road maintenance agreements, and Deeds of Record.
      (2)   Service Charge: A survey prepared by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer containing information on the gross area of the property.
   (c)   Using the information provided by the appellant, the Director of
Public Works shall review the submitted documentation and request additional
documentation as necessary. A written decision shall be issued within sixty
(60) days of receipt of a complete appeal submission.
   (d)   In response to an appeal, the Director of Public Works may adjust or
exempt the Street Improvement Utility service charge and any late payment
penalties applicable to a property in conformance with the general purpose and
intent of this article. The appellant shall not be entitled to any
reimbursement of funds for any fees paid prior to the submission of their
appeal.
   (e)   A decision of the Director of Public Works that is adverse to an
appellant may be appealed to the City Manager within thirty (30) days of
receipt of notice of the adverse decision. The appeal must be filed in writing
with the City Manager by the appellant and include a detailed explanation of
the grounds for the appeal. The City Manager shall issue a written decision on
the appeal within sixty (60) days.
   (f)   Any appeal of the decision of the City Manager must be made pursuant
to the Illinois Administrative Review Act. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
   (g)   Exemptions granted under this section are subject to periodic review
and may be revoked if the means of access to the parcel changes or if parcels
are combined to increase the gross area of the parcel.
(Ord. 18-2024, 4-8-2024; amd. Ord. 56-2025, 6-10-2025)
Secs. 16-9–16-20. Reserved:
ARTICLE II. WATER 1
 
Notes
1 See also radio antennas on water towers, § 4-27 of this code; pipes under
  streets, § 13-55 of this code.
Sec. 16-21. Rules And Regulations For City Water Service:
The rules and regulations in this article shall be considered a part of the
contract with every consumer of city water and each consumer of city water
shall be governed by and subject to the rules and regulations; and it is hereby
made the duty of the director of public works to enforce the same. (Ord. 18-
2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-22. Application For Water Service Connection:
   (a)   Application For Water Service: An application for water service
connections and the installation of water meters must be made at the office of
the finance department of the city in the city hall, by the owner or agent of
the property to be served, upon forms furnished by that office. Such
application shall state the official house number or number of the premises and
the size of the pipe required. Every application for water supply shall state
that the same is made subject to all rules and regulations then in force or
that may thereafter be adopted by the city.
   (b)   Owner To Sign All Applications: All applications for water service
shall be signed by the owner of the premises, or an agent or designee thereof,
and such application shall contain an agreement to pay all water service
charges. Such application when accepted by the city collector shall constitute
a contract between the applicant and the city.
   (c)   Contract Sale: The contract holder in contract sale of property shall
be considered the owner of the property and ultimately responsible for
delinquent charges.
   (d)   Rental Property: The landlord of a property shall ultimately be
responsible for delinquent charges even if the service is in the name of the
tenant. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002; Ord. 029-2008, § 1, 4-21-2008)
Sec. 16-23. Connections To Be Made Under City Supervision:
The making of all service connections, laying pipes and setting of water
service fixtures in streets and public grounds shall be made by duly licensed
plumbers working in compliance with the requirements of permits issued by the
city. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-24. Alteration Of Or Addition To Service Pipes:
No additions or alterations whatsoever in or about any service conduit, service
pipe or water cock shall be made by any person without a plumbing permit issued
by the city. Whenever water service through an existing service pipe is to be
permanently discontinued for any reason, the existing service pipe shall be
disconnected at its connection to the water main and the curb box and stop must
be removed at the expense of the service owner. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-25. Separate Connections:
There shall be a separate service pipe laid from the main to each building.
Such service pipe shall be laid on a straight line at right angles to the water
main and connections made within two (2) lines drawn parallel to the sides of
the building to be served. In the event that there is more than one water main
available to serve the building, the public works department will decide which
water main to use. If the city council determines a strict enforcement of this
requirement to be unreasonable, a special permit may be issued to the owner
authorizing a variance to the provisions of this section. Where services are
laid to premises, where there are no water mains available for direct
connection, a small temporary main will be permitted to be laid as provided in
section
16-33 of this article. In all cases each building served must have an
independent service shutoff. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-26. Service Outside City Limits:
Water service may be provided outside the city limits. In such cases that the
property to be served is not part of an incorporated municipality, water
service may only be provided upon the approval of the city council and the
applicant therefor shall pay the cost of the extension of the water main and
shall pay double the water rate for all water furnished. In addition thereto,
the plumbing to be serviced thereby must be inspected and approved by the city
plumbing inspector. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-27. Service Curb Cocks:
   (a)   A curb stop box, shutoff and related appurtenances within the building
for controlling the supply of water to consumers shall be placed on every
service in accordance with the standard drawings provided by the public works
department. Any variation in the location for setting of such stop boxes, as
herein provided for, shall be made only when authorized by the director of
public works.
   (b)   Whenever a meter cannot be set on the premises without danger of
freezing, difficulty of reading or other cause detrimental to service by the
public works department, the director of public works may demand the
installation of an outside meter box and shutoff, the type to be designated by
him.
   (c)   The outside shutoff and stop box shall be under the sole control of
the city public works department and no person except an employee or person
specifically authorized by the city public works department shall open the
cover of such box, turn on or off water or interfere with a service curb cock
in any way. However, licensed plumbers may turn on or off the water for testing
plumbing or making repairs, but whenever so used the shut off must be left
closed if found closed and open if found open by the plumber who uses it.
   (d)   The valves, curb box and shutoff must be kept in good condition and
ready for use at all times by the property owner. Should the property owner
neglect to maintain such valves, curb box and shutoff in proper condition to be
used, and if the stop box is found to be filled up, or the stop box or shutoff
is found to be out of repair at any time, the city public works department
shall have the right to clean or repair the same when needed without giving
notice, and charge the cost thereof to the owner, and if payment is refused,
may turn off the water in the service until the same is paid. The city will not
be responsible for any damage due to the breaking of a service or stopcock,
done while setting, resetting or repairing a water meter, or turning water off
or on.
   (e)   Owners of premises having water services which do not have separate
curb stopcocks and boxes for each building, or which otherwise do not conform
to the requirements in this section at the time of its passage, shall be
required to put in such curb stopcock or make such other changes as are
necessary to conform to these requirements when so instructed by the public
works department. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-28. Service Pipe:
The water service pipe from the water main to the water meter shall be
constructed in accordance with the standard drawings provided by the public
works department. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-29. Connection Between Different Services:
When there are two (2) or more services on premises, the piping from each
service must be kept separate, and no connection made from one to the other. If
the city council determines that the strict enforcement of this requirement is
unreasonable, a special permit may be issued to the owner authorizing a
variance. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-30. Maintenance Of Service Pipes:
All service pipes and fixtures from the street water main to the premises,
including the corporation cocks at the mains and the valves on each side of the
meter, shall be installed and maintained at the expense of the property owners,
and any leaks or other defects in the same shall be promptly repaired by them.
If the defects are not properly repaired within ten (10) days after written
notice, the water may be turned off by the public works department until such
repairs have been made and the expense thereof shall be charged against such
owner and must be paid before water shall be turned on again. (Ord. 18-2002, §
1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-31. Breaks In Service Or Fixtures:
The city shall not be held responsible by reason of the breaking of any service
pipe or apparatus, water coil or for failure in the supply of water. (Ord. 18-
2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-32. Right To Shut Off Or Turn On Water:
The city may, when necessary, without notice, shut off or turn on the water in
its mains for any purpose and no claims shall be made against the city by
reason of the breakage of any service pipe, service cock, or from any other
damage that may result from improper fixtures, open or improper connections or
for any other causes. The public works department shall give notice of shutting
off water if conditions are such that it is reasonably possible to do so. (Ord.
18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-33. Temporary Mains:
No temporary water mains shall be allowed in the city except as provided by
special ordinance passed by the city council. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-34. Water Rates Established:
   (a)   The 2021 rates are effective September 1, 2021, all other yearly rate
increases become effective January 1, of that calendar year:
   Water Volume Charge:
 
Rate             Present Rates 2021  2022  2023  2024  2025
First 15,000 ft3 $3.68         $3.88 $4.10 $4.32 $4.56 $4.81
Next 885,000 ft3 $3.37         $3.56 $3.75 $3.96 $4.17 $4.40
Over 900,000 ft3 $2.57         $2.71 $2.86 $3.02 $3.18 $3.36
 
   Quarterly Water Fixed Meter Charge:
Meter Size Present Rates 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Meter Size Present Rates 2021    2022    2023    2024    2025
5/8"       $36.12        $38.11  $40.21  $42.42  $44.75  $47.21
3/4"       $38.47        $40.59  $42.82  $45.18  $47.66  $50.28
1"         $46.90        $49.48  $52.21  $55.09  $58.12  $61.32
1-1/2"     $55.56        $58.62  $61.84  $65.24  $68.83  $72.62
2"         $86.80        $91.57  $96.61  $101.92 $107.53 $113.44
3"         $281.43       $296.61 $313.24 $330.47 $348.65 $367.83
4"         $375.25       $395.89 $417.66 $440.63 $464.86 $490.43
6"         $576.89       $608.62 $642.09 $677.40 $714.66 $753.97
 
   Monthly Water Fixed Meter Charge:
Meter Size Present Rates 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Meter Size Present Rates 2021    2022    2023    2024    2025
5/8"       $20.63        $21.77  $22.97  $24.23  $25.56  $26.96
3/4"       $23.66        $24.96  $26.34  $27.79  $29.31  $30.92
1"         $24.86        $26.23  $27.67  $29.20  $30.81  $32.50
1-1/2"     $29.33        $30.95  $32.65  $34.44  $36.34  $38.34
2"         $42.22        $44.54  $46.99  $49.57  $52.30  $55.18
3"         $112.52       $118.71 $125.24 $132.13 $139.40 $147.06
4"         $159.48       $168.25 $177.50 $187.27 $197.56 $208.43
6"         $253.27       $267.20 $281.89 $297.40 $313.75 $331.01
8"         $253.27       $267.20 $281.89 $297.40 $313.75 $331.01
 
   (b)   Special Fees and Discounts: Elderly/Handicapped Users Discount will
remain the same. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002; Ord. 049-2021, 8-23-2021)
Sec. 16-35. City Collector To Have Charge Of Collections:
The city collector shall have charge of the collection of all water and/or
sewerage service bills. The city collector shall give a receipt for all monies
so paid to him. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-36. Bills And Collection Policies:
   (a)   Billings For Water Service: Billings for water service shall be
rendered by the finance department on a monthly or quarterly basis at the
discretion of the finance department.
   (b)   When A Bill Is Delinquent: If a bill for water service remains unpaid
for thirty (30) days or more after it is rendered, the city may shut off water
service to the property. If the city thereafter records a lien with the
recorder of deeds for the delinquent charges incurred, any subsequent purchaser
who takes title to the property after the lien is recorded, is responsible for
payment of all the delinquent charges and penalties. If water service has been
shut off and a lien has been recorded prior to the new purchaser taking title
to the property, water service shall not be restored to the property until all
delinquent charges and penalties, including shutoff charges, have been paid in
full and arrangements for restoring service has been made with the city. If a
subsequent purchaser of the property takes title after the delinquent charges
have been incurred by the prior owner, but before the city records a lien for
these unpaid charges, the subsequent purchaser shall not be responsible for
payment of the delinquent charges and, if applicable, water service shall be
reinstated to the property. Any unpaid charges for water service incurred by a
prior owner where a lien has not been filed before the property is sold or
transferred to a bona fide purchaser are the responsibility of the prior owner,
and the city retains the right to seek repayment of those charges by means
available to it by law.
   (c)   Notice Of Shutoff For Nonpayment: When city records reflect that
premises are occupied, the water to those premises shall not be shut off for
nonpayment without giving at least five (5) days' notice to the persons
residing therein. The notice shall be given by contacting the persons occupying
the premises personally, or by posting on the front door or in a public hallway
of the property, notice of the proposed shutoff action by the city. The notice
shall comply with 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 735/1.2 et seq. A fee of
thirty five dollars ($35.00) shall be charged for each shutoff notice.
   (d)   Monthly Bills: The city collector may put any water service on a
monthly payment basis, if it is judged to be in the best interest of the city
to do so. In such cases the bills shall be due not less than fifteen (15) days
following the date of the statement.
   (e)   Late Fee: When water bills are not paid on or before the due date
stated on the bill, a penalty of five percent (5%) shall be added. Failure to
receive a bill does not entitle the owner or customer to a remission of
penalty.
   (f)   Billing To Address Other Than Service Address: Written notice must be
given by the owner or authorized agent if it is desired that bills be forwarded
to any other address than the premises supplied.
   (g)   Payment In Advance: The city shall have full power and authority to
require payment in advance for the use of water furnished by it in and upon any
building, place or premises, and in case prompt payment for the same shall not
be made, it may shut off the water from such building, place or premises and
shall not be compelled again to supply the building, place or premises with
water until arrears together with the costs and expense of turning the water
off and on shall be fully paid.
   (h)   Special Service Bill: All bills for installation of special water
service connections or service repairs, special meter reading services and for
the installation and repair of meters shall be payable to the city collector as
soon as such work is completed and the bill is rendered, and if the bills are
not promptly paid, the city water supply may be turned off by the city until
all such bills have been paid.
   (i)   Combined Bill; Partial Payment: The water charge may be billed on a
common statement and collected along with other charges. If the water charge is
included on a common statement and the customer payment is insufficient to pay
the total of all portions of the statement, the payment will be applied
according to the priority shown in section 13-41 of this code.
   (j)   Issuance Of Bills: All water and sewer accounts will be billed as soon
as possible after readings are obtained. Each bill will be due not less than
fifteen (15) days after its issuance.
   (k)   Average Bills: If a current reading is not obtained, an average bill
will be issued, based upon the consumption history of the account. If for any
reason adequate history is not available, a bill will be issued for two
thousand five hundred (2,500) cubic feet of consumption. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-
11-2002; Ord. 029-2008, § 2, 4-21-2008; Ord. 009-2010, § 1, 2-8-2010; Ord. 065-
2012, 10-15-2012; Ord. 091-2014, 12-15-2014)
Sec. 16-37. Adjustment Of Water Charges:
In any case of a dispute over the amount of a bill, or over the accuracy of a
meter, the city shall at the request of the consumer test the meter, in the
presence of the consumer or his agent. If it is found upon such test that the
meter registers a greater amount of water than has actually passed through said
meter (allowing 2 1/2 percent for accuracy) the bill will be adjusted to
conform with the correct amount passing through the meter. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1,
3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-38. Responsibility In Turning On Water Services:
In turning on water services, the city shall not be responsible for any damage
that may occur by reason of improper fixtures, open or improper connections or
for any other causes. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-39. Discontinued Use Of Water:
Owners or customers desiring to discontinue the use of water shall give notice
thereof to the city collector, who shall cause the water to be turned off and
the meter removed. When water service is discontinued, all water and sewer
charges for such service shall become due and payable. A service charge shall
be made at the time service is discontinued, either at the customer's request,
or for nonpayment of charges. A charge fixed by the city council from time to
time shall be made for every special reading requested by a customer. The city
may withhold water supply until all unpaid bills against the property have been
paid. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-40. Water Meters:
   (a)   All water furnished consumers shall be metered other than water used
for construction purposes paid for pursuant to subsection 16-34(a) of this
article. All meters shall be furnished and set by the city or a licensed and
registered plumber but owners must provide a suitable location in the piping
system for same. Meters shall be placed on service pipes in accordance with the
standard drawings provided by the public works department. There shall be a
suitable place provided for the meter so as to keep it dry and clean, protected
from freezing, and readily accessible at all times to the city. All valves and
fittings necessary to comply with the requirements and to provide connection to
the meter, except a coupling or flange at each end of meter, shall be provided
by the owner of premises to be served.
   (b)   For services larger than two inches (2") in diameter, the city
reserves the right to install two (2) or more meters of smaller size. Where
meters are so placed, each meter shall have a valve or shutoff on both inlet
and outlet pipe in addition to the basement shutoff.
   (c)   Where a service pipe larger than two inches (2") in diameter is used,
the plumber shall call at the public works department for instructions
regarding the fittings and space to be provided for the water meters.
   (d)   In case two (2) or more meters are desired for measuring water to
different tenants in the same building from one service connection, they shall
be so placed that no one of them shall measure water which has passed through
another one. Each meter shall be equipped with a separate locking shutoff.
   (e)   Water meters shall be of the size and type necessary to ensure
accurate registration of the water requirements of the premises. Size of meters
for large buildings, apartments or flats shall be designated by the city at the
time of application for water supply, the size of meters so specified by the
city being always subject to change, from time to time, thereafter as the
demand or other conditions may develop to be out of accord with the provisions
of this article. The city reserves the right to require an increase in the size
of the meter, as in these rules provided, in any case where, in the discretion
of the city, the use of water in larger quantities places any meter under undue
or unusual strain. The size of the meter which shall in either event be
required shall be determined by the city. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-41. Owners To Protect Meters:
   (a)   The owner or occupant of premises where a meter is installed shall be
held responsible for its care and protection from freezing or hot water and
from other injury or interference from any person or persons. In case of any
injury to the meter, or in case of its stoppage or imperfect working, he shall
give immediate notice to the office of the finance department. In all cases in
which meters are broken or damaged by negligence of owners or occupants on
premises, or by freezing, hot water or any other injuries, the necessary
repairs to all city owned meters shall be made by the city, and the costs of
such repairs paid for by the owner or occupant. The charge shall be based on
the amount of damage at the current parts and labor cost, not to exceed the
cost of a new meter. If the meter is found to be damaged beyond repair, it
shall be billed at the current price of a new meter; the cost of such repairs
shall be paid for by such owner or occupant, and in case payment thereof is
neglected or refused, the water supply shall be turned off and shall not be
turned on until full payment has been made, including a fee fixed by the city
for turning on the water again. Damaged meters may be repaired by the city
without first giving notice thereof to the owner of the premises served by such
meter.
   (b)   No person shall in any way interfere with the proper registration of a
water meter, and no person except an authorized employee of the city shall
break a seal of a meter; however, in case of emergency a plumber registered in
the city may break such seal for draining pipes or stopping water leaks. The
plumber shall notify the public works department of this action the next
regular business day after breaking the seal and explain the nature of the
emergency.
   (c)   Whenever a water meter is installed on a water service on premises
that are to be remodeled, removed or destroyed, or where the service is
discontinued so that the water meter is no longer needed, the owner of such
premises shall give notice to the finance department to remove such meter, and
free access to such meter must be provided at least twenty four (24) hours
after notice is given so that the meter may be removed. The owner of the
premises shall be held responsible for the meter until such written notice is
given, and if the meter is covered or lost, he shall be required to pay for the
same at the actual value. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-42. Repairing Meters:
   (a)   Right Of Entry: The city reserves the right at any reasonable time to
enter any premises supplied by the city water and exchange any meter, for
repairs or other cause, as may be deemed necessary by the city.
   (b)   Meters Out Of Order: If any meter, at any time, fails to register the
quantity of water consumed, the same shall be determined and charges made based
on the average quantity registered during the last preceding year prior to the
date of failure, as the city collector shall order and direct. If an average is
not available, a bill will be issued for two thousand five hundred (2,500)
cubic feet of consumption.
   (c)   Leakage: No deduction shall be made on account of leakage after the
water has passed through and been registered by the meter. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1,
3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-43. Unlawful To Obstruct Meters, Etc.:
No person shall in any manner obstruct the access of any stopcock, hydrant,
water meter, dial or valve connected with any water pipes within the city by
means of any rubbish, refuse, building material, fuel or any other article,
thing or hindrance, particularly the obstruction of meters that will interfere
with the ready access to a meter at any and all times. Neglecting to comply
with this provision, the consumer at once becomes liable and the city water
supply will be turned off at the street, after notice has been given, until the
obstruction shall be removed. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-44. Water Lien For Unpaid Water Fees:
Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after it
has been rendered, the unpaid charges can result in the city taking steps to
file a lien with the recorder of deeds reflecting nonpayment of those charges.
Prior to filing a lien, the city shall prepare and send in accordance with
state law, a delinquency notice to the owner of record of the property
receiving the water service, advising the owner that the water fees have become
delinquent and that nonpayment of the outstanding charges and penalties may
create a lien on the property. Said notice of delinquency shall advise the
owner that he or she has seven (7) days from the date of mailing of the notice
to pay all amounts owed or else a notice of lien will be filed with the
recorder of deeds. Said lien shall include any unpaid fees for services
rendered to the property after the mailing of the notice of delinquency. (Ord.
066-2012, 10-15-2012)
Sec. 16-45. Molestation Or Injury To Water Mains:
   (a)   Any person who may be working in any street of this city who may
molest or in any way damage the city water mains, or appurtenances thereto,
shall be responsible to the city for any and all such damages, and he, or his
heirs, representatives or assigns shall bear all expense of such replacement or
repair made necessary thereby, and he shall also be responsible for damage to
surrounding properties on account of the damage to water mains.
   (b)   Whenever any construction is taking place or where digging for any
reason is being done, the public works department shall estimate the location
of underground utility facilities owned by the city in accordance with the
JULIE (joint utility locating information for excavators; Illinois one call
system) obligations mandated by Illinois law. A reasonable charge for any such
service after the initial location above provided for shall be paid by the
person requesting such service. The city shall not be responsible for any costs
incurred by any person or party due to the inaccuracy of estimated locations
provided by the city. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-46. Fire Hydrants:
   (a)   All fire hydrants except those that are connected directly to an
internal fire protection system that is not owned by the city are hereby
declared to be public hydrants and shall be tested, maintained, repaired and
replaced as needed by the city. If a public fire hydrant is located on private
property, the owner of the private property shall allow the city unrestricted
access for the purpose of testing, maintaining, repairing and replacing the
hydrant.
   (b)   Fire hydrants that are directly connected to an internal fire
protection system that is not owned by the city must be tested and maintained
by the owner of the internal fire protection system in accordance with the
requirements of the fire department.
   (c)   If a public fire hydrant is attached to a water main that is not owned
by the city, the water main shall be maintained at the expense of the owner in
accordance with the requirements of the public works department. If any leaks
or other defects are not properly repaired at the expense of the owner within
ten (10) days after written notice from the public works department, the water
may be turned off by the public works department until such repairs have been
made. The expense of turning off the water shall be charged against such owner
and must be paid before water shall be turned on again.
   (d)   No person other than the members of the fire department, the public
works department or those specially authorized by the public works department
shall open any of the public fire hydrants or attempt to draw water from the
same or in any manner interfere with or injure any of the public fire hydrants
in the city. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-47. Waste Of Water:
No person shall allow the water to run to waste through defective pipes,
faucets or other fixtures; however, a reasonable time, not exceeding forty
eight (48) hours, shall be allowed to repair the same. In case of neglect or
refusal by the person to cause the fixtures to be repaired, the public works
department may withhold the water supply. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-48. Stopcock And Valve Services:
The city shall not be responsible for any accidents caused by stopcocks or
valve boxes that stand above the surface of the ground, pavement or sidewalks
and the property owners shall keep all stopcocks or valve boxes flush with the
surface at their location. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-49. Inspections Generally:
   (a)   Inspectors, foremen, meter readers or any other employee or agent of
the city whose duty it may be to enter upon private premises to make
inspections and examinations of water meters, pipes, fixtures or appurtenances
thereto, for any reason whatsoever in connection with the city water supply
will be provided with a badge or other credentials to identify them as
authorized agents and representatives of the city.
   (b)   Any officer, inspector, foreman, meter reader or authorized agent or
employee of the city upon presentation of his badge or other credentials
provided for in subsection (a) of this section, shall be given free access at
any and all reasonable hours to any premises supplied by the city water, for
the purpose of making any inspection thereof pertaining to the water system.
   (c)   In case any authorized agent or employee of the city is refused
admittance to any premises, or being admitted is hindered or prevented in
making such examination, the city may cause the city water supply to be turned
off from the premises after giving twenty four (24) hours' notice to the owner
or occupant of said premises.
   (d)   No person not an authorized agent or employee of the city shall have,
wear or exhibit any badge or credential of the city. It shall be the duty of
every such officer, agent or employee of the city upon resignation or dismissal
forthwith to surrender and deliver to the director of public works all badges
and credentials of the city. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-50. Connection Between City And Other Supply:
No person shall cause a connection to be made or allow one to exist with the
city water supply for commercial, domestic, sanitary, fire protection or boiler
feed purposes, or for any other purpose whatsoever, where water foreign to the
city water supply is used for a second source of supply. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-
11-2002)
Sec. 16-51. Connections With Other City Systems:
Any water connections now existing between the city and any adjoining city, and
those connections now existing in the industrial district, i.e., the double
check valve connections, shall be allowed to remain until a demand is made by
the city to sever or alter these connections, at which time they shall be
disconnected or changed as directed by such department or departments. (Ord.
18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-52. Installation Of Water Mains:
   (a)   Water mains shall be installed under the standard specifications of
the city for laying water mains and under the supervision and inspection of the
director of public works or his designated representative.
   (b)   All water mains of four inch (4") size or larger now in place or that
may be placed in public right of way or public utility easements, so dedicated,
excluding service and fire protection lines of four inch (4") size and larger,
shall become the donated property of the city. The responsibility, jurisdiction
and maintenance thereof shall thereafter be administered by the city public
works department.
   (c)   The city water mains hereafter installed shall be inspected and tested
by the director of public works or his designated representative. Any water
mains installed without inspection shall be opened by the contractor or plumber
for inspection, at his own expense, at the request of the director of public
works or his designated representative.
   (d)   No contractor or plumber shall turn on or off any valve of four inches
(4") or over, on any city owned water mains without the permission of the
public works department. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-53. Extensions; New Subdivisions:
The following is the policy adopted by the city council in regard to the
extension of water lines to and into new subdivisions of the city:
      (1)   The city council will consider the extension of water and/or sewer
service to the project area, provided a project of adequate magnitude is
proposed to assure a fair return on the city's investment within a reasonable
period of time.
      (2)   Where the line is brought to the project area by the city, the
developer will be expected to extend the line within the project area. Such
extensions must be in accordance with city specifications, must be looped in
accordance with sound hydraulic practices, in all aspects, including pipe sizes
and other approvals, to be under the jurisdiction of the director of public
works or his designated representative. The minimum size of water line
extensions will be eight inch (8") diameter. In those instances in which pipe
sizes specified by the director of public works or his designated
representative exceed eight inches (8"), such requirement will be submitted to
the city council, and if the city council agrees with the need for the larger
diameter line, the city will bear the cost of the difference between an eight
inch (8") line and the larger sized line specified.
      (3)   In the case of all subdivisions and line extensions, the city has
the right to authorize other subdividers to hook onto water lines extended and
installed by another subdivider if, in the opinion of the city engineer, the
lines are adequately sized to handle the added load. If the hook on is to a
line size larger than eight inches (8") in diameter, the city will follow the
same policy with respect to extending the line, as pertains under subsection
(2) of this section.
      (4)   Where the city extends a line at city expense, and at a later time,
properties fronting on the line request permission to hook on, the cost of the
line will be apportioned as follows:
         a.   The city will bear the cost of the line in excess of eight inch
(8") diameter.
         b.   The cost of the eight inch (8") line will be apportioned (1/2 to
each side) to properties fronting on the line. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-54. Water Shortage-Definition:
For the purpose of this article an inadequate supply of water shall be deemed
to exist when the city is unable to refill the reservoirs and storage tanks on
a daily basis because of the high demand for water due to weather conditions or
because the city's water facilities are inadequate to provide the refilling as
aforesaid due to other causes. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-55. Duties Of Manager:
It shall be the duty of the city manager to make a determination that an
inadequate supply of water exists in the city when the refilling process
described in the preceding section is not completed on a daily basis. After
making said determination, the provisions of sections
16-54 and 16-56 of this article shall not be enforced until the city manager
informs the news media of the city of the determination so that the residents
of the city will be notified of the determination. If conditions permit a delay
in enforcement, a notice shall also be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-11-2002)
Sec. 16-56. Use Of Water:
No person shall use the city water supply for the watering of lawns or
noncommercial washing of motor vehicles during that period of time when there
exists in the city an inadequate supply of water in the city's reservoirs and
storage tanks due to weather conditions or other causes. (Ord. 18-2002, § 1, 3-
11-2002)
Sec. 16-57. Backflow Prevention Device:
All plumbing installed within the city of Rock Island shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code
section 90. If in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code in the judgment of
the public works director, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the public works director
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and all applicable
local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices upon installation and annually thereafter, at a minimum. The owner of
the premises shall maintain records to document that testing, servicing and
repairs are conducted as required.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city of Rock Island enter the supply or distribution system
of said municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply
and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by
the public works director and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the public works director to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the public works director shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years.
      (3)   The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have
the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection
to the public water supply or distribution system of the city of Rock Island
for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and
that the public works director or his authorized agent shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the city of Rock Island for the purpose
of verifying information submitted by the owner, lessees or occupants of any
property so served shall furnish to the public works director any information
which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on
such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within
the discretion of the public works director, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this section.
      (4)   The public works director of the city of Rock Island is hereby
authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant
thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of the provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section, and until a
reconnection fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) is paid to the city of Rock Island.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the director of
public works is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination or
pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion
of the public works director or the Illinois environmental protection agency,
such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply. Neither the public water supply, the
director of public works, or its agents or assigns shall be liable to any
customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of
this section, whether or not said termination was with or without notice.
      (5)   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 90-37, § 1, 5-21-
1990; Ord. 79-2002, § 1, 9-16-2002)
ARTICLE III. SEWERS 1 , 2
 
Notes
1 See also breaking into, opening, etc., sewers, § 10-36 of this code; sewers
  under railroad tracks, § 13-56 of this code.
2 65 ILCS 5/11-141-1 et seq.
Sec. 16-81. Management Of Sewer:
The management and supervision of the sewer division of the city and any and
all property pertaining thereto shall be under the direction of the director of
public works. In addition to the foregoing, the director of public works shall
perform such other duties as may be required of him by the city manager. (1963
Code, Ch. IX, Art. I; Ord. 87-22, § 16, 3-23-1987; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-82. Definitions:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this article shall be as follows:
   (a)   Federal Government:
      (1)   Federal Act: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.) as
amended (Pub. L. 95-217).
      (2)   Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental
protection agency.
      (3)   Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing
of the construction of treatment works as provided for by title II, grants for
construction of treatment works, of the act and implementing regulations.
   (b)   State Government:
      (1)   State Act: The Illinois antipollution bond act of 1970.
      (2)   Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection
agency.
      (3)   State Grant: The state participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the state act and for making
such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the state of Illinois.
   (c)   Local Government:
      (1)   City: The city of Rock Island.
      (2)   Approving Authority: The director of public works.
   (d)   Person: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   (e)   NPDES Permit: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued
by the administrator, or, where appropriated by the director, after enactment
of the federal clean water act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant
to section 402 of the federal act.
   (f)   Clarification Of Word Usage: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is
permissible.
               (g)      Wastewater And Its Characteristics:
      (1)   Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together
with any ground water, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
      (2)   Sewage: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
      (3)   Effluent Criteria: Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      (4)   Water Quality Standards: Defined in the water pollution regulations
of Illinois.
      (5)   Unpolluted Water: Water quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      (6)   ppm: Parts per million by weight.
      (7)   Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand
milliliters (1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used
commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in
reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
      (8)   Suspended Solids (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are
removable by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of
suspended solids shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the
IEPA division of laboratories "Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
      (9)   BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C),
expressed in milligrams per liter.
      (10)   pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division
of laboratories "Manual Of Laboratory Methods".
      (11)   Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and
sale of food.
      (12)   Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2")
(1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
      (13)   Floatable Oil: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it
will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat
if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the
collection system.
      (14)   Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of
industrial or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population
equivalent is 0.13 ccf of sewage per day, containing 0.20 pounds of BOD and
0.20 pounds of suspended solids.
      (15)   Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
      (16)   Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance
discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business establishment or process or from the development,
recovery or processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary
sewage.
      (17)   Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly
owned treatment works that:
         a.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average
workday; or
         b.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by
the municipal system receiving the waste; or
         c.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the federal act; or
         d.   Is found by the permit issuing authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      (18)   ccf: The flow measurement unit of hundred cubic feet.
   (h)   Sewer Types And Appurtenances:
      (1)   Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste
liquids, including stormwater, surface water and ground water drainage.
      (2)   Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of
the city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary
(or combined) system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with city funds.
      (3)   Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or
a combination of both, and into which stormwaters, surface waters, and ground
waters or polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      (4)   Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries stormwater, surface water and
ground water drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than
unpolluted cooling water.
      (5)   Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, stormwater, surface water and ground water drainage.
      (6)   Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      (7)   Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
      (8)   Stormwater Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is
drained into the sewers.
      (9)   Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the
collection, transportation and pumping of sewage.
      (10)   Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land
owned by others.
   (i)   Treatment:
      (1)   Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      (2)   Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and
structures for treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge; sometimes
used as synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant"
or "pollution control plant".
   (j)   Wastewater Facilities: The structures, equipment, and processes
required to collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and
transport effluent to a watercourse.
   (k)   Watercourse And Connections:
      (1)   Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
      (2)   Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface water or ground water.
   (l)   User Types:
      (1)   User Class: The type of user "residential", "institutional",
"governmental", "commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
      (2)   Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings.
      (3)   Commercial User: Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments, or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
      (4)   Institutional/Governmental User: Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
      (5)   Industrial Users: Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
      (6)   Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which
industrial wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an
interior drop. The purpose of a control manhole is to provide access for the
city representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   (m)   Types Of Charges:
      (1)   Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied
on all users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed
as outlined in section
16-85  of this article and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge
and the capital charge.
      (2)   User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the
cost of operation, maintenance and replacement.
      (3)   Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the
public sewer system.
      (4)   Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding
debt.
      (5)   Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve,
extend or reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
      (6)   Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
      (7)   Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
      (8)   Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection
system and/or treatment works will be operated.
      (9)   Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the sewerage system. (Ord. 90-33, 5-14-
1990)
Sec. 16-83. Sewer Service To Extend Across Entire Frontage:
No person shall extend a City sewer to service his property unless the sewer
line is extended across the entire frontage of the property at the property
owner's expense. In the event compliance with this provision is impossible
because of physical conditions or impractical because of unique circumstances,
the property owner may apply to the City Council for exemption from the
requirements of this section. (Ord., 10-13-1969; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-84. Sewer Charges Generally:
Each user of the City's sewer service shall be charged for usage of the sewage
system at rates established under this article. Where the sewer user is also a
City water user, billing for sewage usage shall be coincidental with the
billing for water usage. In cases where a sewer user is not a water user,
billing shall be made monthly or quarterly as determined by the City Collector.
(1963 Code art. 9-1-3; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990; Ord. 001-2005, 1-17-2005)
Sec. 16-85. Rates Generally:
Sec. 16-85.1. Basis For Wastewater Service Charges:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the City shall consist of a service charge and a
volume charge.
SERVICE CHARGE PER METER
           Effective
Meter Size February 1, 2020
           Quarterly Monthly
           Effective
Meter Size February 1, 2020
           Quarterly Monthly
5/8"       $ 50.92   $ 22.64
3/4"       67.86     33.90
1"         101.76    39.57
2"         254.43    96.13
3"         621.97    220.50
4"         1,017.78  373.18
6"         2,063.86  1,113.73
 
VOLUME CHARGE PER 100 CUBIC FEET
Rate Present Rates 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Rate            Present Rates 2021      2022      2023      2024      2025
Wastewater Volume Rates:
First 15,000    $4.48         $4.68     $4.89     $5.11     $5.34     $5.58
ft3
Over 15,000 ft3 $2.87         $3.00     $3.13     $3.28     $3.42     $3.58
Quarterly Wastewater Fixed Service Charge Rates:
Meter Size:                                                       
   5/8"      $50.92        $53.32    $55.60    $58.10    $60.71    $63.44
   3/4"      $67.86        $70.91    $74.10    $77.43    $80.91    $84.55
   1"        $101.76       $106.34   $111.13   $116.13   $121.36   $126.82
   1-1/2"    $180.93       $189.07   $197.58   $206.47   $215.76   $225.47
   2"        $254.43       $265.88   $277.84   $290.34   $303.41   $317.06
   3"        $621.97       $649.16   $679.21   $709.77   $741.71   $775.09
   4"        $1,017.78     $1,063.58 $1,111.44 $1,161.45 $1,213.72 $1,268.34
   6"        $2,063.86     $2,156.73 $2,253.78 $2,355.20 $2,461.18 $2,571.93
Monthly Wastewater Fixed Service Charge Rates:
   5/8"      $22.64        $23.66    $24.72    $25.83    $26.99    $28.21
   3/4"      $33.90        $35.42    $37.02    $38.68    $40.42    $42.24
   1"        $39.57        $41.35    $43.21    $45.16    $47.19    $49.13
   1-1/2"    $67.86        $70.91    $74.10    $77.43    $80.91    $84.55
   2"        $96.13        $100.46   $104.97   $109.70   $114.64   $119.79
   3"        $220.50       $230.42   $240.79   $251.63   $262.95   $274.78
   4"        $373.18       $389.87   $407.52   $425.86   $445.02   $465.05
   6"        $1,113.73     $1,163.85 $1,216.22 $1,270.95 $1,328.14 $1,387.90
   8"        N/a           $1,163.85 $1,216.22 $1,270.95 $1,328.14 $1,387.90
 
   Sec. 16-85.2. Three-Part Rate: A three-part rate may be levied to those
users whose wastewater varies significantly from normal domestic concentrations
for BOD and SS. The three-part rate would consist of a service charge plus a
unit charge for volume, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), and total suspended
solids (TSS).
Service charges for customers paying based upon the three-part rate will be
calculated by the Public Works Department on a case by case basis.
The concentration of wastes used for computing BOD and TSS charges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the City and shall be binding as a basis for the BOD
and TSS charges. In the event a customer requests to be placed on a three-part
rate schedule, the cost of performing the necessary waste sampling shall be
charged directly to the customer.
INDUSTRIAL THREE-PART RATE
 
Meter Size           Present Rates 2021  2022   2023  2024  2025
Volume (Per 100 ft3) $0.99         $1.03 $1.08  $1.13 $1.18 $1.23
BOD (per lb)         $1.10         $1.15 $1.20  $1.26 $1.31 $1.37
TSS (per lb)         $0.56         $0.59 $0..61 $0.64 $0.67 $0.70
 
   Special fees and discounts: elderly/handicapped users discount will remain
the same. (Ord. 006-2014, 1-20-2014; Ord. 056-2016, 12-19-2016; Ord. 056-2017,
12-18-2017; Ord. 001-2019, 1-14-2019; Ord. 074-2019, 12-16-2019; Ord. 050-2021,
8-24-2021; Ord. 056-2021, 9-14-2021)
Sec. 16-86. Special Rates:
   (a)   Criteria: These special rates may include, among others, where the
nature of the use of City water is such in the opinion of the Director of
Public Works that the resulting sewage or industrial waste has characteristics
making it more or less difficult to treat or purify than ordinary domestic
waste.
   (b)   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing volume
charges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of one cubic foot.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the City for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these
other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the City if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste, if other than
a City owned water meter, shall be installed, owned and maintained by the
person. Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed,
unless service is canceled, without the consent of the City.
   (c)   Dangerous Waste: No sewage or industrial waste having characteristics
tending, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, to jeopardize the
successful and/or continued operation of the sewage treatment plant or any of
its units, including sewers leading to the same, shall be discharged into the
sewer system. Such waste may be pretreated by the user at his own expense and
discharged into the system. Plans, specifications and design data for the
pretreatment of waste shall be submitted to and approved by the Public Works
Department and by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency before any
construction work on the waste treatment plant is begun. (1963 Code art. 9-1;
Ord. 87-22, 3-23-1987; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990; Ord. 001-2005, 1-17-2005)
Sec. 16-87. Delinquencies:
Sec. 16-87.1. Lien  1  - Notice Of Delinquency: Whenever a bill for sewer
service remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after it has been rendered, the
unpaid charges will result in a lien for those charges in favor of the City
against the property where service was provided. This lien will include all
charges incurred subsequent to the period covered by the delinquent bill.
The City Collector shall file with the Recorder of Deeds of the County a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice that the City
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for sewer service
incurred subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
The failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as stated in this section.
   Sec. 16-87.2. Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same; and the proceeds of the sale
shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. The City Attorney is authorized to
institute such proceedings in the name of the City in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which a lien has been
recorded. (1963 Code art. 9-1; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990; Ord. 029-2008, 4-21-2008)
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8, 5/11-141-7.
Sec. 16-88. Disconnection Of Service:
If the charges for sewer service are not paid within thirty (30) days after the
rendition of the bill for service, service shall be discontinued without
further notice. (1963 Code art. 9-1; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-89. Private Sewers And Sewer Connections:
No person shall construct, cause or permit to be constructed any private drain,
or sewer leading into any City sewer or drain laid in any street, alley or
public ground, unless approved by special ordinance of the City Council. (1963
Code art. 9-1; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-90. Payment Of Equitable Proportion Of Cost:
No person shall connect with any "private sewer", meaning a sewer which is laid
in part in the City streets, heretofore built or hereafter to be built, or to
flow therein any liquid or other matter, without first paying to the City
Collector his equitable proportion of the cost of the construction thereof up
to the date of connection, the amount so paid to the City Collector to be
divided between the subscribers thereto in proportion to the amount originally
paid by them, respectively, for the construction thereof, under a penalty of
five dollars ($5.00) and further penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) for each day
he shall maintain such connection after such conviction. (1963 Code art. 9-1;
Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-91. Ownership Of Private Sewer:
Any private sewer laid or constructed by authority of a private sewer ordinance
and in accordance with the terms of this chapter shall, on completion, be and
become the property of the City to be used by the City as a public sewer,
subject, however, to the conditions imposed in section 16-90 of this article.
(1963 Code art. 9-1; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-92. Sewage In Storm Water Drain-Prohibited:
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or cause to be connected any
drain carrying any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool or industrial
waste, or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances, to any storm
water drain in the city. This prohibition shall not apply where the discharge
entering the storm sewer consists of nonpolluting substances and permission to
connect is granted by the city council. In such a case the user shall furnish
and maintain all meters providing for the metering of water from privately
owned wells or sources other than the city water supply. Rates for such use
shall be set as authorized in section 16-86 of this article. (1963 Code, Ch.
IX, Art. I; Ord., 10-16-1967; Ord., 9-16-1974; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-93. Sewage In Storm Water Drain-Penalty:
Any person violating section
16-92 of this article shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and in
addition, shall be fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day for each day such
violation exists. (Ord., 9-16-1974; Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-94. Maintenance Of Sanitary Sewer Service Pipes:
All service pipes and fixtures from the sanitary sewer, combined or storm sewer
mains to the premises, including the connection to the main, shall be installed
and maintained at the expense of the property owner; and any leaks or other
defects in the same shall be promptly repaired by them. If not repaired within
ten (10) days after written notice, the sewer service and/or water service will
be discontinued until such repairs have been made; and the expense thereof
shall be charged against such owner and must be paid before service is
restored. In the event the Public Works Director determines that the sewer
malfunction is creating a severe public nuisance or health hazard, the sewer
and/or water service can be discontinued immediately. (Ord. 88-42, 7-25-1988;
Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-95. Sewer Use Generally:
   (a)   Building Sewers And Connections:
      (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Plumbing Inspector.
      (2)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
      (3)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building.
      (4)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Plumbing Inspector, to
meet all requirements of this Article.
      (5)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federal Manual
of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
      (6)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved by the Plumbing Inspector and discharged to the building sewer.
      (7)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      (8)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing and Materials,
Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Public Works
Director before installation.
      (9)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Plumbing Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Plumbing Inspector or his representative.
      (10)   New construction tributary to the combined sewer system shall be
designed to minimize and/or delay inflow contribution to the combined sewer
system.
      (11)   Inflow sources on the combined sewer system shall be connected to
a storm sewer, within a reasonable amount of time, if a separated storm sewer
becomes available.
      (12)   New building domestic waste connection shall be distinct from the
building inflow connection, to facilitate disconnection if a separate storm
sewer becomes available.
   (b)   Use Of The Public Sewers:
      (1)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Public Works Director. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
City Council or IEPA, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
      (2)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in Section
16-300 et seq. of this Chapter, and/or which are in violation of the standards
for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26, 1978, and any amendments
thereto, and which in the judgment of the Public Works Director may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Public Works Director may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
If the Public Works Director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Public Works Director, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Plumbing Inspector, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
      (4)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his expense.
      (5)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole; and,
when required by the Public Works Director, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the public works
director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall
be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
      (6)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this article and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the city; but no less than once per year the
industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater
discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and local
standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and
laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a manner as
prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements,
analyses, and reporting required by the city. At such times as deemed
necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples for
analyses by an outside laboratory service.
   (c)   Powers And Authority Of Inspectors:
      (1)   The public works director and other duly authorized employees of
the city, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S.
environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
The public works director or his representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
      (2)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection (c)(1) of this section, the public works director or duly
authorized employees of the city, the Illinois environmental protection agency,
and the U.S. environmental protection agency shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company; and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to city employees; and the city shall
indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain conditions as required in subsection (b)(6) of this
section.
      (3)   The public works director and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within that easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990;
Ord. 97-96, 12-8-1997)
Sec. 16-96. Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge:
The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
   CW = CU + CC
   Where CW = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period.
   CU = Service charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (section 16-
85.1 of this article)
   CC = Volume charge (section 16-85.1 of this article)
(Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990; Ord. 001-2005, § 1, 1-17-2005)
Sec. 16-97. Revenues:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the wastewater system
shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the wastewater fund. All such
revenues and monies shall be held by the city treasurer separate and apart from
his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the city; and
all of that sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the
city treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at
such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the city
council.
The city treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the wastewater system
and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as the
same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the fund
designated as the sewerage fund.
The city treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner
provided by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-1 et seq., the Illinois
municipal code. (Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-98. Accounts:
The city treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall
be made of all transactions relative to the wastewater system; and at regular
annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing
concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the wastewater
system. (Ord. 90-33, 5-14-1990)
Sec. 16-99. Access To Records:
The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the City which are applicable to the City system of user charges for the
purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to
ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any
State grant and Federal regulations and conditions of any Federal grant. (Ord.
90-33, 5-14-1990)
ARTICLE IV. INDUSTRIAL WASTES
Sec. 16-100. Enactment:
Pursuant to the requirements of title III of the Clean Water Act Amendments (33
USC 1311 et seq.) and regulations promulgated thereunder, the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act of 1970 as amended (415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.), and in
accordance with the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-141-7 et seq.), the
following Article is hereby enacted by the City Council. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-
1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-101. Purpose And Policy:
This Article sets forth uniform requirements for users of the wastewater
collection and Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) for the City of Rock
Island and enables the City to comply with all applicable State and Federal
laws including the Clean Water Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.), and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR part 403). The objectives of this Article are:
   (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
   (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will
      pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into the receiving waters or
otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
   (3)   To ensure that the quality of the wastewater treatment plant sludge is
maintained at a level which allows its use and disposal in compliance with
applicable statutes and regulations;
   (4)   To protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and sludge
in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
   (5)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the POTW;
   (6)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the POTW; and
   (7)   To enable the City to comply with its NPDES permit conditions, sludge
use and disposal requirements and any other Federal or State laws to which the
POTW is subject.
   This Article shall apply to all industrial users of the POTW. The Article
authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; authorizes monitoring,
compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review
procedures; requires industrial user reporting; and provides for the setting of
fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program
established herein. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-102. Administration:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this Article. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent
to other City personnel. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-103-16-199. Reserved:
Sec. 16-200. Definitions:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this Article, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
   Act Or The Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended (33 USC 1251 et seq.).
   Approval Authority: United States EPA - Region 5, and Illinois EPA.
   Authorized Representative Of The Industrial User:
   (1)   If the industrial user is a corporation, "authorized representative"
shall mean:
      a.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation;
      b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management decisions
which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures;
   (2)   If the industrial user is a partnership, or sole proprietorship, an
"authorized representative" shall mean a general partner or proprietor,
respectively;
   (3)   If the industrial user is a Federal, State, or local governmental
facility, an "authorized representative" shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or his/her designee;
   (4)   The individuals described in subsection (1) through (3) of this
Section may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is
in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible
for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates
or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the City.
   Best Management Practices (BMP): Schedules of activities, prohibition
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices (in reference
to pretreatment) to implement the prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5 (a)(1)
and (b). BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and
practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five (5) days at twenty (20) centigrade expressed in terms of milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
   Categorical Industrial User (CIU): An Industrial User subject to Categorical
Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N,
Parts 405-471.
   Categorical Pretreatment Standard Or Categorical Standard: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance
with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC 1317) which apply to a specific
category of industrial users and which appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter
N, parts 405-471.
   Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   City: The City of Rock Island or the City Council of Rock Island.
   Color: The optical density at the visual wave length of maximum absorption,
relative to distilled water. One hundred percent (100%) transmittance is
equivalent to zero (0.0) optical density.
   Control Authority: The City of Rock Island, which owns and operates the
POTW.
   Composite Sample: The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
   Cooling Water: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooking or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   Daily Composite: The numerical average of all grab samples, or the result of
analysis of a single sample formed by combining all aliquots, taken during a
calendar day. A daily composite must be based on at least three (3) grab
samples or three (3) aliquots taken at different times.
   Daily Maximum: The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   Daily Maximum Limit: The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where Daily Maximum Limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharge over the course of the
day. Where Daily Maximum Limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   Enforcement Response Plan: A plan utilized to respond to violations of this
ordinance and pretreatment program.
   Environmental Protection Agency Or EPA: The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Regional Water Management Division Director or other duly authorized
official of said agency.
   Existing Source: Any source of discharge that is not a “New Source”.
   Fats, Oil, Or Grease (FOG): Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats,
waxes, oils, and any other material that is extracted by
trichlorotrifluoroethane solvent.
   Flow: Volume of wastewater per unit of time.
   Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of
produce.
   Grab Sample: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed fifteen (15) minutes. Aliquots of a daily composite are grab samples
only if they are analyzed separately.
   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency Or IEPA: The Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the duly authorized official of said agency.
   Indirect Discharge Or Discharge: The introduction of (nondomestic)
pollutants into the POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under section
307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act.
   Industrial User Or User: A source of indirect discharge.
   Instantaneous Maximum Allowable Discharge Limit: The maximum concentration
(or loading) of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of
the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   Interference: A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
   (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations
or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
   (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of the City's NPDES permit or of
the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder (or more
stringent State or local regulations): section 405 of the Clean Water Act; the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including title II commonly referred to as the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained
in any State sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the
SWDA; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine
Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   Local Limit: Where specific prohibitions or limits on pollutants or
pollutant parameters are developed by a POTW in accordance with 40 CFR 403.5
(c), such limits must be deemed Pretreatment Standards for the purpose of
Section 307(d) of the Act.
   Medical Waste: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
byproducts, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, fomites, etiologic agents,
contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory
wastes and dialysis wastes.
   Monthly Average: The numerical average of all daily composites taken during
a calendar month. A monthly average must be based on at least three (3) daily
composites.
   Monthly Average Limit: The highest allowable average of "daily discharges"
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges: measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured
during that month.
   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit (NPDES Permit): A
permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System for
discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant
to the Act.
   New Source:
   (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is
or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after
the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      a.   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      b.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      c.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection (1)b or c of this Section but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
   (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      a.   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
         1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment, or
         2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation,
or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
      b.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
subsection.
   Noncontact Cooling Water: Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User: A categorical user subject to
categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR § 403.6 and 40 CFR chapter I,
subchapter N that never discharges more than one hundred (100) gallons per day
(gpd) of total categorical wastewater, (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling
and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the
Pretreatment Standard) and the following conditions are met:
   (1)   The Industrial User, prior to the Control Authority's finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical Pretreatment Standards
and Requirements;
   (2)   The Industrial User annually submits the certification statement
required in § 403.12(q) together with any additional information necessary to
support the certification statement; and
   (3)   The Industrial User never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
   Pass Through: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the U.S. in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the City's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of
a violation).
   Person: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all Federal, State or local governmental
entities.
   pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in
standards units.
   Pollutant: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, industrial
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and filter
backwash, and the characteristics of the wastewater (i.e., pH, temperature,
TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, odor).
   Pretreatment: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes, by process changes, or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   Pretreatment Requirements: Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on an industrial user, other than a pretreatment
standard.
   Pretreatment Standards Or Standards: Prohibitive discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, State of Illinois pretreatment standards,
and City local limits as they appear in Section
16-301  of this Article.
   Prohibited Discharge Standards Or Prohibited Discharges: Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in Section
16-300  of this Article.
   Publicly Owned Treatment Works Or POTW: A "treatment works" as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292), which is owned by the State or
municipality. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the
collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or
industrial wastes and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant. The term also means the municipal entity having jurisdiction over the
industrial users and responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
treatment works.
   Septic Tank Waste: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   Sewage: Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dish washing
operations, etc.).
   Shall is mandatory; may is permissive or discretionary. The use of the
singular shall be construed to include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   Significant Industrial User: Shall apply to:
   (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards; and
   (2)   Any other industrial user that:
      a.   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more
of process wastewater,
      b.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the
treatment plant or,
      c.   Is designated as significant by the City on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   Significant Noncompliance:
   (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined herein as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period exceeded (by any
magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(l);
   (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined herein as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3(l) multiplied by the
applicable TRC (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease and 1.2 for all other
pollutants except pH);
   (3)   Any other discharge violation that the Superintendent believes has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharge, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
   (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (5)   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an Individual Discharge Permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   (6)   Failure to provide within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports or compliance with compliance schedules;
   (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (8)   Any other violation(s) which the City's Superintendent determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program; or
   (9)   Failure to perform or establish BMPs agreed to in the permit.
   Sludge: The settleable solids separated from the liquids during the
wastewater treatment processes.
   Slug or Slug Load: Any discharge which could cause a violation of the
prohibited discharge standards in Section 16-300 of this Article or any
discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an
accidental spill or a noncustomary batch discharge, which has a reasonable
potential to cause Interference or Pass Through, or in any other way violate
the POTW's regulations, local limits or Permit conditions.
   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code: A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget.
   Standard Laboratory Procedure: Any laboratory procedures recognized by the
EPA and IEPA.
   Storm Water: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting therefrom, including snow melt.
   Superintendent: The person designated by the City to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this Article or his duly authorized representative.
   Total Suspended Solids: The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which
is removable by laboratory filtration using a Reeve Angel type 934A or 984H
glass fiber filter disc as prescribed in standard laboratory procedure.
   Toxic Pollutant: One of one hundred twenty six (126) pollutants, or
combination of those pollutants, listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by
the EPA under the provision of section 307 (33 USC 1317) of the Act.
   Treatment Plant Effluent: Any discharge of pollutants from the POTW into
waters of the State.
   Wastewater: Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes, and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   Wastewater Treatment Plant Or Treatment Plant: That portion of the POTW
designed to provide treatment of sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-201. Abbreviations:
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand
BMP   Best management practices
BMR   Baseline monitoring report
CFR   Code of Federal Regulations
COD   Chemical oxygen demand
CIU   Categorical industrial user
EPA   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
FOG   Fats, oils and grease
gpd   Gallons per day
IEPA  Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
IU    Industrial user
l     Liter
mg    Milligrams
mg/l  Milligrams per liter
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
O&M   Operation and maintenance
POTW  Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA  Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC   Standard Industrial Classifications
SIU   Significant Industrial User
SNC   Significant Noncompliance
SWDA  Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901, et seq.)
TSS   Total suspended solids
USC   United States Code
 
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Secs. 16-202-16-299. Reserved:
Sec. 16-300. Prohibited Discharge Standards:
No industrial user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW any
pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or interference. These
general prohibitions apply to all industrial users of the POTW whether or not
they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national,
State, or local pretreatment standards or requirement. Furthermore, no
industrial user may contribute the following substances to the POTW:
   (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the Municipal
wastewater collection and POTW, including, but not limited to, waste streams
with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit
(140°F) (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (2)   Any wastewater having a pH less than five (5.0) or more than ten
(10.0), or otherwise causing corrosive structural
      damage to the POTW or equipment, or endangering City personnel.
   (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction of
the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch (1/2") or one and twenty-seven hundredths centimeters (1.27
cm) in any dimension.
   (4)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen demanding
pollutants (BOD, etc.), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants,
will cause interference with either the POTW; or any wastewater treatment or
sludge process, or which will constitute a hazard to humans or animals.
   (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty-
seven degrees Fahrenheit (157°F) (65°C), or which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C).
   (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
   (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the City in accordance with Section
16-354 of this Article.
   (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance, a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair.
   (10)   Any substance which will cause unnatural coloring of the wastewater
at the POTW treatment plant. Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be
removed by the treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment
plant's effluent thereby violating the City's NPDES permit. Color (in
combination with turbidity) shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to
reduce the depth of the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more
than ten percent (10%) from the seasonably established norm for aquatic life.
   (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
as specifically approved by the superintendent in compliance with applicable
State or Federal regulations.
   (12)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the superintendent.
   (13)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
   (14)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit.
   (15)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant's effluent to fail a
toxicity test.
   (16)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
   (17)   Any discharge of fats, oils, or grease is limited to one hundred
(100) mg/l.
   (18)   Wastewater causing two (2) readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or any point in the POTW, of more than
five percent (5%) nor any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower
explosive limit of the meter;
   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall not
be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the
POTW. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-301. Specific Pollutant Limitations:
   (a)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing in
excess of the following monthly average allowable discharge limits:
Pollutant Concentration Limit for Main Concentration Limit for Southwest
          Treatment Plant              Treatment Plant
Pollutant              Concentration Limit for Main Concentration Limit for
                       Treatment Plant              Southwest Treatment Plant
Ammonia nitrogen       50     mg/L                  50     mg/L
Arsenic                0.20   mg/L                  1.79   mg/L
BETX                   750    ug/L                  750    ug/L
BOD5                   300    mg/L                  300    mg/L
Benzene                50     ug/L                  50     ug/L
Cadmium                0.10   mg/L                  0.10   mg/L
Chromium, total        1.00   mg/L                  1.71   mg/L
Copper                 2.00   mg/L                  1.81   mg/L
Cyanide                0.65   mg/L                  0.33   mg/L
FOG, total             100    mg/L                  100    mg/L
Fluoride               15     mg/L                  15     mg/L
Iron                   50     mg/L                  50     mg/L
Lead                   0.40   mg/L                  0.40   mg/L
Manganese              1.00   mg/L                  1.00   mg/L
Mercury                0.0005 mg/L                  0.0005 mg/L
Nickel                 1.18   mg/L                  2.00   mg/L
Phenols, total         2.50   mg/L                  10     mg/L
Selenium               1.00   mg/L                  1.00   mg/L
Silver                 0.20   mg/L                  0.24   mg/L
Total Suspended Solids 350    mg/L                  350    mg/L
Zinc                   1.48   mg/L                  1.48   mg/L
 
   Concentrations apply at the point where the industrial waste is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for "total" metal
unless indicated otherwise. At his discretion, the superintendent may impose
mass limitations in addition to or in place of the concentration based on
limitations above.
   (b)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, proof of violation of the
numerical standards of subsection (a) of this section shall be on the basis of
one or more of the following averaging rules:
   (1)   No monthly average shall exceed the prescribed numerical standard.
   (2)   No daily composite shall exceed two (2) times the prescribed numerical
standard.
   (3)   No grab sample shall exceed five (5) times the prescribed numerical
standard.
   In the event the number of grab samples collected in a twenty-four (24) hour
period is less than three (3), the individual test results for those samples
shall not exceed two (2) times the prescribed numerical standard of subsection
(a) of this section.
   In the event the number of grab samples collected in a particular month is
less than three (3), the individual test results for those samples shall not
exceed the prescribed numerical standard of subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; Ord. 98-05, 1-19-1998; Ord. 96-2002, § 1, 11-18-2002;
Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 54-2025, 5-19-2025)
Sec. 16-302. Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards:
   The national categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR chapter I,
subchapter N, parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   The USEPA will promulgate new categorical pretreatment standards from time
to time. Upon promulgation by USEPA, this division shall be amended to include
any new standards applicable to its POTWs.
   (1)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (2)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
      a.   The Control Authority may authorize the Industrial User subject to a
categorical Pretreatment Standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated
by a categorical Pretreatment Standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only in
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user. This authorization is subject to the
conditions set forth in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2).
      b.   In order to receive a waiver for sampling of pollutants not present
or expected to be present, an Industrial User must provide data from at least
one sampling of the facility's process wastewater prior to any treatment
present at the facility that is representative of all wastewater from all
processes. The data should be submitted to the control authority in the form of
a report.
   (3)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   (4)   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any
case where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in Section
16-301 of this article. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-303. State Requirements:
The state of Illinois pretreatment standards established in 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 307 are hereby incorporated. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd.
Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-304. City's Right Of Revision:
The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to
the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in section
16-101 of this article or the general and specific prohibitions in section
16-300 of this article. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-305. Special Agreement:
The city reserves the right to enter into special agreements with industrial
users setting out special terms under which they may discharge to the POTW. In
no case will a special agreement waive compliance with a pretreatment standard
or requirement. However, nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
entering into special agreements with industrial users to allow discharges that
vary significantly from normal domestic concentrations for BOD and suspended
solids, and therefore, might exceed the limitations set forth in section
16-301 of this article, where such discharges will not, as determined by the
superintendent, cause pass-through or interference or otherwise adversely
affect the POTW. Where the city enters into a special agreement regarding
excess BOD and suspended solids discharges, the city shall charge the
industrial user excess user charges for such discharges in accordance with the
provisions of section 16-85.2 of this chapter. However, the industrial user may
request a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in accordance with 40
CFR 403.15. They may also request a variance from the categorical pretreatment
standard from the EPA. Such a request will be approved only if the industrial
user can prove that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by the EPA when establishing that
pretreatment standard. An industrial user requesting a fundamentally different
factor variance must comply with the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; Ord. 74-00, § 1, 9-25-2000; Ord. 33-
2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-306. Dilution:
No industrial user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
superintendent may impose mass limitations on industrial users which are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other
cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. (Ord. 96-69, 9-
23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-307. Streamlining Provisions:
   The City Reserves the right to implement the following Streamlining
Provisions for eligible industrial users as stated in USEPA regulations:
   (1)   Equivalent mass based on limits in addition to, or in place of
concentration-based limits, may be specified to facilitate adoption of water
saving technologies and meet requirements such as effective technology
operation, usage of a continuous flow monitoring device, record keeping of
production rates with notification of variances above twenty percent (20%), and
continuity of using comparable water conservation measures.
   (2)   Equivalent concentration-based limits in addition to, or in place of
flow-based mass limits for three (3) industrial categories such as Organic
Chemical, Plastics, and Synthetic Fibers (OCPSF), Petroleum Refining, and
Pesticide Chemical.
   (3)   Use of best management practices (BMPs) as an alternative to numeric
limits. (Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-308–16-349. Reserved:
Sec. 16-350. Pretreatment Facilities:
Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this Article and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in Section
16-300 of this Article within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the
State, or the Superintendent - whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the City shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the industrial user's expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the City for review, and shall be acceptable to the City before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the industrial user from the responsibility of modifying
the facility as necessary to produce an acceptable discharge to the City under
the provisions of this Article. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-
20-2024)
Sec. 16-351. Additional Pretreatment Measures:
   (a)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require industrial
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial
waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the
POTW and determine the industrial user's compliance with the requirements of
this Article.
   (b)   Each person discharging into the POTW greater than twenty-five
thousand (25,000) gallons per day or greater than five percent (5%) of the
average daily flow in the POTW, whichever is lesser, shall install and
maintain, on his property and at his expense, a suitable storage and flow
control facility to ensure equalization of flow over a twenty-four (24) hour
period. The facility shall have a capacity for at least thirty three percent
(33%) of the daily discharge volume and shall be equipped with alarms and a
rate of discharge controller, the regulation of which shall be directed by the
Superintendent. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
   (c)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the owner at his expense.
   (d)   Industrial users with the potential to discharge flammable substances
may be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection
meter.
   (e)   At no time shall two (2) readings on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, be more than
five percent (5%) nor any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower
explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024,
5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-352. Accidental Discharge/Slug Control Plans:
The Superintendent may require any industrial user to develop and implement an
accidental discharge/slug control plan. The City shall evaluate all SIUs for
the need of a slug control plan within a year of becoming an SIU. The City
shall also evaluate an industrial user's need for slug control plans on an
appropriate frequency and consider applicable and relevant control measures for
industrial user compliance. The Superintendent may require any user to develop,
submit for approval, and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the
Superintendent may develop such a plan for any user. Any industrial user
required to develop and implement an accidental discharge/control slug plan
shall submit a plan which addresses, at a minimum, the following:
   (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges.
   (2)   Description of stored chemicals.
   (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which
would violate any of the prohibited discharges in Section
16-300 of this Article.
   (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site run-off, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-353. Tenant Responsibility:
Where an owner of property leases premises to any other person as a tenant
under any rental or lease agreement, if either the owner or the tenant is an
industrial user, either or both may be held responsible for compliance with the
provisions of this Article. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-
2024)
Sec. 16-354. Hauled Wastewater:
   (a)   Septic tank waste may be accepted into the POTW at a designated
receiving structure within the treatment plant area, and at such times as are
established by the Superintendent, provided such wastes do not violate Sections
16-300 through
16-306 of this Article or any other requirements established or adopted by the
City. Wastewater discharge permits for individual vehicles to use such
facilities shall be issued by the Superintendent.
   (b)   The discharge of hauled industrial wastes as "industrial septage"
requires prior approval and a wastewater discharge permit from the City. The
Superintendent shall have authority to prohibit, at his/her sole discretion,
the disposal of such wastes, if such disposal would interfere with the
treatment plant operation. Waste haulers are subject to all other sections of
this Article.
   (c)   Fees for dumping septage will be determined by the Superintendent for
individual cases depending on the quality and quantity of such wastes. (Ord.
96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-355. Vandalism:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, tamper with or prevent access to any structure, appurtenance
or equipment, or other part of the POTW. Any person found in violation of this
requirement shall be subject to the sanctions set out in Section
16-455 of this Article. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-356-16-399. Reserved:
Sec. 16-400. Wastewater Survey:
When requested by the Superintendent all industrial users must submit
information on the nature and characteristics of their wastewater by completing
a wastewater survey prior to commencing their discharge. The Superintendent is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
industrial users to update the survey. Failure to complete this survey shall be
reasonable grounds for terminating service to the industrial user and shall be
considered a violation of the Article. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-
2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-401. Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirement:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any significant industrial user to discharge
wastewater into the City's POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge
permit from the Superintendent, unless a significant industrial user has filed
a timely application pursuant to Section
16-402. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this Article and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in Sections
16-700 through
16-707 and
16-750 through
16-753 of this Article. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all Federal and State
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
Federal, State and local law.
   (b)   The Superintendent may require other industrial users, including
liquid waste haulers, to obtain wastewater discharge permits as necessary to
carry out the purposes of this Article.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-402. Wastewater Discharge Permitting Existing Connections:
Any significant industrial user which discharges industrial waste into the POTW
prior to the effective date of this Ordinance and who wishes to continue such
discharges in the future, shall, within ninety (90) days after said date, apply
to the City for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with Section
16-405 of this Article, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this
Ordinance except in accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the
Superintendent. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-403. Wastewater Discharge Permitting New Connections:
Any significant industrial user proposing to begin or recommence discharging
industrial wastes into the POTW must obtain a wastewater discharge permit prior
to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
wastewater discharge permit must be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to
the date upon which any discharge will begin. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord.
33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-404. Wastewater Discharge Permitting Extrajurisdictional Industrial
Users:
   (a)   Any existing significant industrial user located beyond the City
limits shall submit a wastewater discharge permit application, in accordance
with Section
16-405 of this Article, within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this
Ordinance. New significant industrial users located beyond the City limits
shall submit such applications to the Superintendent ninety (90) days prior to
any proposed discharge into the POTW.
   (b)   Alternately, the Superintendent may enter into an agreement with the
neighboring jurisdiction in which the significant industrial user is located to
provide for the implementation and enforcement of pretreatment program
requirements against said industrial user. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord.
33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-405. Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents:
In order to be considered for a wastewater discharge permit, all industrial
users required to have a wastewater discharge permit must submit the
information required by Section
16-451 of this Article. The Superintendent shall approve a form to be used as a
permit application. In addition, the following information may be requested:
   (1)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW.
   (2)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation of the POTW.
   (3)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and rate
of production.
   (4)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day).
   (5)   The site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
   (6)   Time and duration of the discharge.
   (7)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent
to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the industrial user for revision. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord.
33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-406. Application Signatories And Certification:
   (a)   All wastewater discharge permit applications and industrial user
reports must contain the following certification statement and be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user.
   "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
   (b)   Upon approval of a monitoring waiver and revision of the User's
control mechanism by the Control Authority, the Industrial User must certify on
each report with the statement below, that there has been no increase in the
pollutant in its waste stream due to activities of the Industrial User:
   “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR           
[specify applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of
                                                                     [list
pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since
filing of the last periodic report under 40 CFR 403.12(e)(1).”
   (c)   If an authorization under the Section 16-200 definition of an
“Authorized Representative of the Industrial User” is no longer accurate
because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall
operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental matters
for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of the Section
16-200 definition of an “Authorized Representative of the Industrial User” must
be submitted to the Control Authority prior to or together with any reports to
be signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-407. Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions:
The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the industrial user and
may require additional information. Within ninety (90) days of receipt of a
complete wastewater discharge permit application, the Superintendent will
determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. If no
determination is made within this time period, the application will be deemed
denied. The Superintendent may deny any application for a wastewater discharge
permit. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-408-16-449. Reserved:
Sec. 16-450. Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration:
Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not
to exceed five (5) years. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a
period less than five (5) years, at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each
wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will
expire. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-451. Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents:
   Wastewater discharge permits shall include such conditions as are reasonably
deemed necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or interference,
protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment plant's effluent,
protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal,
protect ambient air quality, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (1)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain the following conditions:
      a.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five (5) years.
      b.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferrable
without prior notification to the City, and provisions for furnishing the new
owner or operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit.
      c.   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, applicable to
the user based on applicable standards in Federal, State, and local law.
      d.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored (including the process
for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant neither present nor
expected to be present in the Discharge in accordance with Section 16-302(2)),
sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample type based on Federal, State,
and local law.
      e.   Statement of applicable civil, criminal, and administrative
penalties for violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any
applicable compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for
compliance beyond that required by applicable Federal, State, or local law.
      f.   Requirements to control Slug Discharges, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
      g.   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent (Section
16-302(2)) must be included as a condition in the User’s permit.
   (2)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following:
      a.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
      b.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties.
      c.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works
      d.   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated, or routine discharges.
      e.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW.
      f.   The unit charge or schedule of industrial user charges and fees for
the management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW.
      g.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
      h.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable Federal and State pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit.
      i.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this Article, and State and Federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-452. Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals:
Any person, including the industrial user, may petition the City to reconsider
the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within thirty (30) days of its
issuance.
   (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
   (3)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   (4)   If the City fails to act within thirty (30) days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit, shall be considered final
administrative action for purposes of judicial review. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996;
amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-453. Wastewater Discharge Permit Modification:
The Superintendent may modify the wastewater discharge permit for good cause
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (1)   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the industrial
user's operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time
of wastewater discharge permit issuance.
   (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge.
   (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the City's POTW, City personnel, or the receiving waters.
   (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit.
   (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting.
   (7)   Revisions of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13.
   (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit.
   (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to a
new owner/operator.
   The filing of a request by the permittee for a wastewater discharge permit
modification does not stay any wastewater discharge permit condition. (Ord. 96-
69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-454. Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer:
Wastewater discharge permits may be reassigned or transferred to a new owner
and/or operator only if the permittee gives at least thirty (30) days advance
notice to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the wastewater
discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a
written certification by the new owner and/or operator which:
   (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility's operations and processes.
   (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur.
   (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit voidable on the date of facility transfer. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-
1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-455. Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation:
Wastewater discharge permits may be revoked for the following reasons:
   (1)   Failure to notify the City of significant changes to the wastewater
prior to the changed discharge.
   (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the City of changed
conditions pursuant to Section
16-504 of this Article.
   (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports.
   (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment.
   (6)   Refusing to allow the City timely access to the facility premises and
records.
   (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations.
   (8)   Failure to pay fines.
   (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges.
   (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
   (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application.
   (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of a permitted
facility.
   (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or the Ordinance.
   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon nonuse, cessation of
operations, or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits
are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 96-69,
9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-456. Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance:
A significant industrial user shall apply for wastewater discharge permit
reissuance by submitting a complete wastewater discharge permit application in
accordance with Section
16-405 of this Article a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of
the industrial user's existing wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-
1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-457-16-499. Reserved:
Sec. 16-500. Baseline Monitoring Reports:
   (a)   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on
a category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
significant industrial users subject to such categorical pretreatment
standards, and currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW,
shall be required to submit to the City a report which contains the information
listed in subsection (b) of this Section. At least ninety (90) days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall be required to submit to the City a report which contains the
information listed in subsection (b) of this Section. A new source shall also
be required to report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet
applicable pretreatment standards. A new source shall also give estimates of
its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants discharged.
   (b)   The industrial user shall submit the information required by this
Section including:
      (1)   Identifying Information: The name and address of the facility
including the name of the operator and owners.
      (2)   Wastewater Discharge Permits: A list of any environmental control
wastewater discharge permits held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description Of Operations: A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such industrial user. This description should
include a schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the
POTW from the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow Measurement: Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement Of Pollutants:
         a.   Identify the categorical pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process.
         b.   Submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the
nature and concentration (and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
City) of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations (or mass,
where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
Section
16-509 of this Article. In cases where the Standard requires compliance with a
Best Management Practice or pollution prevention alternative, the User shall
submit documentation as required by the Control Authority or the applicable
Standards to determine compliance with the Standard;
         c.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in Section
16-510 of this Article;
         d.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the User should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula of §
403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance with the Pretreatment Standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
§ 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted to
the Control Authority;
         e.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 CFR
part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant
in question, or where the Administrator determines that the part 136 sampling
and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analysis shall be performed by using validated analytical methods
or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including
procedures suggested by the POTW or other parties, approved by the
Administrator;
         f.   The Control Authority may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures;
         g.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place, of
sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
Discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Certification: A statement reviewed by the industrial user's
authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis - and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance Schedule: If additional pretreatment technology and/or
O&M will be required to meet the pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule
by which the industrial user will provide such additional pretreatment
technology and/or O&M. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later
than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard.
A compliance schedule pursuant to this Section must meet the requirements set
out in Section
16-501  of this Article.
      (8)   Signature Required: All baseline monitoring reports must be signed
and certified in accordance with Section
16-406  of this Article.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-501. Compliance Schedule Progress Report:
   The following conditions shall apply to the schedule required by Section
16-500(b)(7) of this Article. The schedule shall contain progress increments in
the form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading
to the construction and operation of additional pretreatment technology
required for the user to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such
events include hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction, beginning and conducting routine operation). No increment
referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months. The industrial user shall
submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later than fourteen (14) days
following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance including,
as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment or progress, the
reason for any delay, (and, if appropriate) the steps being taken by the
industrial user to return to the established schedule. In no event shall more
than nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-502. Report On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard
Deadline:
Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any industrial
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the City a report containing the information described in subsection
16-500(b)(4) through (6) of this Article. For industrial users subject to
equivalent mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the
procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure
of the industrial user's long-term production rate. For all other industrial
users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of
operation), this report shall include the industrial user's actual production
during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed
and certified in accordance with Section 16-406 of this Article. (Ord. 96-69,
9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-503. Periodic Compliance Reports:
   (a)   Any significant industrial user subject to a pretreatment standard
shall, at a frequency determined by the Superintendent but in no case less than
twice per year (by April 30th and October 31st), submit a report indicating the
nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by
such pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum
daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the Pretreatment Standard
requires compliance with a Best Management Practice (BMP) or pollution
prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation required by the
Superintendent or the Pretreatment Standard necessary to determine the
compliance status of the user. All periodic compliance reports must be signed
and certified in accordance with Section
16-406 of this Article.
   (b)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the industrial user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of an industrial user to keep its monitoring facility in
good working order shall not be grounds for the industrial user to claim that
sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
   (c)   If an industrial user subject to the reporting requirement in and of
this Section monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW,
using the procedures prescribed in Section
16-509 of this Article the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
   (d)   Users subject to BMP requirements must submit compliance reports in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(b), (e), and (h).
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-504. Report Of Changed Conditions:
   Each industrial user is required to notify the Superintendent of any planned
significant changes to the industrial user's operations or system which might
alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least thirty (30) days
before the change.
   (1)   The Superintendent may require the industrial user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under
Section
16-405 of this Article.
   (2)   The Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under
Section
16-407 of this Article or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
Section
16-453 of this Article.
   (3)   No industrial user shall implement the planned changed conditions(s)
until and unless the Superintendent has responded to the industrial user's
notice.
   (4)   For purposes of this requirement flow increases of ten percent (10%)
or greater, and the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants, shall be
deemed significant.
   (5)   The Superintendent shall deny or condition new or increased
contributions of pollutants, or changes in the nature of pollutants to the POTW
by Industrial Users where such contributions do not meet applicable
Pretreatment Standards and Requirements or where such contributions would cause
the POTW to violate its NPDES permit.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-505. Report Of Potential Problems:
   (a)   In the case of any discharge including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch
discharge, or a slug load which may cause potential problems for the POTW
(including a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in Section
16-300 of this Article), it is the responsibility of the industrial user to
immediately telephone and notify the City of the incident. This notification
shall include the location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and
volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the industrial user.
   (b)   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the industrial user
shall, unless waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of discharge and the measures to be taken by the
industrial user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall
not relieve the industrial user of any expense, loss, damage, or other
liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural
resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the industrial user of any fines, civil penalties, or
other liability which may be imposed by this Article.
   (c)   Failure to notify the City of potential problem discharges shall be
deemed a separate violation of this Article.
   (d)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the industrial user's bulletin
board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of
a discharge described in subsection (a) of this Section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause or suffer such a discharge to occur, are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
   (e)   Significant Industrial Users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a Slug
Discharge. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-506. Reports From Nonsignificant Industrial Users:
All industrial users not subject to categorical pretreatment standards and not
required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate
reports to the City as the Superintendent may require. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996;
amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-507. Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting:
If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation, the
industrial user must notify the control authority within twenty-four (24) hours
of becoming aware of the violation. The industrial user shall also repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the
control authority within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the
violation. The industrial user is not required to resample if the POTW performs
monitoring at the industrial user's at least once a month, or if the POTW
performs sampling between the industrial user's initial sampling and when the
industrial user receives the results of this sampling. If the City performed
the sampling and analysis in lieu of the industrial user, the City will perform
the repeat sampling and analysis unless it notifies the user of the violation
and requires the user to perform the repeat sampling and analysis. (Ord. 96-69,
9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-508. Notification Of The Discharge Of Hazardous Waste:
   (a)   Any industrial user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste
shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and
State hazardous waste authorities in writing of any discharge into the POTW of
a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under
40 CFR part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the industrial user discharges
more than ten (10) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification shall also contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the industrial user: an
identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an
estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the
mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the
following twelve (12) months. All notifications must take place no later than
one hundred eighty (180) days after the discharge commences. Any notification
under this subsection need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharged. However, notifications of changed discharges must be submitted
under Section
16-504 of this Article. The notification requirement in this Section does not
apply to pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of
Sections
16-500,
16-502 and
16-503 of this Article.
   (b)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection (a) of this
Section during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than
fifteen (15) kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of
any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and
261.33(e), requires a one-time notification.
Subsequent months during which the industrial user discharges more than such
quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
   (c)   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the
POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and State
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety
(90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (d)   In the case of any notification made under this Section, the
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
   (e)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this ordinance, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable Federal or State law. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996;
amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-509. Analytical Requirements:
All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part
of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments
thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard. If 40 CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques
for the pollutant in question, or where EPA determines that the Part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analyses must be performed using validated analytical
methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including
procedures suggested by the Superintendent or other parties approved by the
EPA. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-510. Sample Collection:
Industrial user reports must be based upon data obtained through appropriate
sampling and analysis performed during the period covered by the report, which
data are representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (a)   Except as indicated in subsection (b) and (c) of this Section, the
industrial user must collect wastewater samples using twenty-four (24) hour
flow proportional composite collection techniques. In the event flow
proportional sampling is infeasible, the Superintendent may authorize the use
of time proportional sampling or through a minimum of four (4) grab samples
where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of
the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to
show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (b)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
toxicity, sulfides, and volatile organic chemicals must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
   (c)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and ninety
(90) day compliance reports required in Section
16-500 and
16-502, a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities
for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which
historical sampling data are available, the Superintendent may authorize a
lower minimum. For the reports required by Section
16-503, the Industrial User is required to collect the number of grab samples
necessary to assess and assure compliance by with applicable Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements.
   (d)   The City reserves the right to waive sampling for pollutants not
expected to be present for qualified IUs in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)
(v), 403.12(e).
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-511. Determination Of Noncompliance:
The Superintendent may use a grab sample(s) to determine noncompliance with
pretreatment standards. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-512. Timing:
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date post-marked.
For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility
serviced by the U.S. Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report shall
govern. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-513. Record Keeping:
   Industrial users subject to the reporting requirements of this ordinance
shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records and
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the User independent of such requirements, and
documentation associated with BMPs. Records shall include the date, exact
place, method and time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the
samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the
analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such analyses. These
records shall remain available for a period of at least three (3) years. This
period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation
concerning compliance with this Article, or where the industrial user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-514. Wastewater Monitoring Expenses:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of wastewater to
which reference is made in Sections
16-500 through
16-513 of this Article will be performed by an independent analytical
laboratory and will be provided at the user's expense. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996;
amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-515-16-549. Reserved:
Sec. 16-550. Inspection And Sampling:
The City shall have the right to enter the facilities of any industrial user to
ascertain whether the purpose of this Article, and any permit or order issued
hereunder, is being met and whether the industrial user is complying with all
requirements thereof. Industrial users shall allow the Superintendent or his
representatives ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of
any additional duties:
   (1)   Where an industrial user has security measures in force which require
proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
industrial user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so
that, upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the City,
State, and EPA will be permitted to enter without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
   (2)   The City, State, and EPA shall have the right to set up on the
industrial user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (3)   Whenever required by permit, an industrial user shall install a large
manhole or sampling chamber for each separate discharge in the building sewer
in accordance with plans and specifications approved the City, installed and
maintained at all times at user's expense, which shall have ample room in each
sampling chamber or to permit the city to take accurate composite samples for
analysis. The chamber shall be safely, easily and independently accessible to
authorized representatives of the City from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five
o'clock (5:00) p.m. five (5) days per week and at other times when the City has
reason to believe that pollutants are being discharged which are in violation
of this Article.
   (4)   The City may require the industrial user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
industrial user at its own expense, and shall be built in accordance with the
plans and specifications approved by the City. The chamber shall be easily
accessible to authorized representatives of the City during operational hours
of the industry. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall
be calibrated periodically or at any time that it is deemed necessary by the
City to ensure their accuracy.
      a.   Each sampling chamber shall contain a Palmer-Bowlus flume unless a
weir or similar device is approved by the City with a recording and totalizing
register for measurement of the liquid quantity; or at the discretion of the
City the metered water supply to the industrial plant may be used as the liquid
quantity where it is substantiated to the City that the metered water supply
and waste quantities are approximately the same, or where a measurable
adjustment agreed to by the City is made in the metered water supply to
determine the liquid waste quantity.
      b.   When required, samples shall be taken every hour or half hour, as
determined by the City and properly refrigerated and preserved in accordance
with standard laboratory procedure and shall be composited in proportion to the
flow for a representative twenty four (24) hour sample. Such sampling shall be
done as prescribed by the user's Wastewater Discharge Permit.
      c.   The sampling chamber, metering device, and documentation of the
frequency of sampling, sampling methods and analyses of samples shall be
subject, at any reasonable time, to inspection and verification by the City.
   (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
industrial facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed be
the industrial user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the
industrial user.
   (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing City personnel access to the
industrial user's premises shall be a violation of this Article.
   (7)   All measurements, tests, and analyses to which reference is made in
this Article shall be determined and performed in accordance with 40 CFR
section 403.12(g), as amended from time to time.
   (8)   The City will periodically sample the industrial user's wastewater to
determine the nature and concentration of the pollutants in the effluent. Any
sampling and testing performed by the City to ascertain that the requirements
of the Article are being met will be paid for by the user.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-551. Search Warrants:
If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure or
property or any part thereof, and if the Superintendent has demonstrated
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this Article or that
there is a need to inspect as part of a routine inspection program of the City
designed to verify compliance with this Article or any permit or order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the
community, then upon application by the City Attorney, the presiding judge of
the City shall issue a search and/or seizure warrant describing therein the
specific location subject to the warrant. The warrant shall specify what, if
anything, may be searched and/or seized on the property described. Such warrant
shall be served at reasonable hours by the Superintendent in the company of a
uniformed police officer of the City. In the event of an emergency affecting
public health and safety, inspections shall be made without the issuance of a
warrant. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-552-16-599. Reserved:
Sec. 16-600. Confidential Information:
   Information and data on an industrial user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from City inspection and sampling activities, shall be
available to the public without restriction - unless the industrial user
specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets
under applicable State law. Any such claim must be asserted at the time of
submission in the manner prescribed on the application form or instructions,
or, in the case of other submissions, by stamping the words “confidential
business information” on each page containing such information. When requested
and demonstrated by the industrial user furnishing a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon request
to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment
program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other "effluent data"
as defined by 40 CFR 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential information
and will be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Secs. 16-601-16-649. Reserved:
Sec. 16-650. Publication Of Industrial Users In Significant Noncompliance:
   The City shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the POTW,
a list of the industrial users which, during the previous twelve (12) months,
were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. The term "significant noncompliance" shall mean:
   (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
during a two (2) quarter period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit
for the same pollutant parameter by any amount;
   (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a two (2) quarter period equals or exceeds the
product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH);
   (3)   Any other violation of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement as
defined by 40 CFR 403.3(l);
   (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the City's exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (5)   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   (6)   Failure to provide within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules;
   (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
   (8)   Any other violation(s) which may include a violation of Best
Management Practices, which the City determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Secs. 16-651-16-699. Reserved:
Sec. 16-700. Notification Of Violation:
Whenever the Superintendent finds that any user has violated or is violating
this Article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent or his agent may
serve upon said user a written notice of violation. Within thirty (30) days of
the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted by the user to the Superintendent. Submission of
this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this Section
shall limit the authority of the City to take any action, including emergency
actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of
violation. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-701. Consent Orders:
The Superintendent is hereby empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances
of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such orders will include specific
action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period also specified by the order. Consent orders shall have the same force
and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to Sections
16-703 and
16-704 of this Article and shall be judicially enforceable. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-
1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-702. Show Cause Hearing:
The Superintendent may order any user which causes or contributes to violation
(s) of this Article, wastewater discharge permits, or orders issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the
Superintendent and show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a
request that the user show cause why this proposed enforcement action should
not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days
prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized
representative of the user. Whether or not the user appears as ordered,
immediate enforcement action may be pursued following the hearing date. A show
cause hearing shall not be a prerequisite for taking any other action against
the user. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-703. Compliance Schedules:
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated or continues to
violate this Article, wastewater discharge permits or orders issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, he/she may issue an order to
the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into
compliance within a date set by him or her. If the user does not come into
compliance within the set date, sewer service may be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are
installed and properly operated. Compliance schedules may also contain other
requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-
monitoring, and management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance schedule may not extend the
deadline for compliance established for a Federal pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance schedule release the user of liability for
any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance
order shall not be a prerequisite to taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-704. Cease And Desist Orders:
When the Superintendent finds that a user is violating this Article, the user's
wastewater discharge permit, any order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past violations are
likely to recur, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it
to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
   (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements.
   (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Issuance of cease and desist order shall not be a prerequisite to taking any
other action against the user. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-
2024)
Sec. 16-705. Administrative Fines:
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other section of this Article, any user that is
found to have violated any provision of this Article, its wastewater discharge
permit, and orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement shall be fined in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per day per violation. In the case of monthly or other long-term
average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the
period of violation.
   (b)   Assessments may be added to the user's next scheduled sewer service
charge and the City shall have such other collection remedies as may be
available for other service charges and fees.
   (c)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after thirty (30) calendar
days, be assessed an additional penalty of nine percent (9%) of the unpaid
balance and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of nine percent (9%) per
month. A lien against the individual user's property will be sought for unpaid
charges, fines, and penalties.
   (d)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within ten (10) days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter within thirty
(30) days of receiving the request from the industrial user. In the event the
user's appeal is successful, the payment together with any interest accruing
thereto shall be returned to the industrial user. The City may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions such as notices and orders to the
fine.
   (e)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a prerequisite for
taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-
2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-706. Emergency Suspensions:
The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge (after informal
notice to the user) whenever such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user's discharge (after notice
and opportunity to respond) that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW, or which presents or may present an endangerment to the environment.
   (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent
shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving
stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent shall allow the
user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the City that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the
termination proceedings set forth in Section
16-707 of this Article are initiated against the user.
   (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the Superintendent, prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under Sections
16-702 and
16-707 of this Article.
Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any emergency suspension under this Section. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord.
33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-707. Termination Of Discharge:
In addition to those provisions in Section
16-706 of this Article, any user that violates the following conditions of this
Article, wastewater discharge permits, or orders issued hereunder, is subject
to discharge termination.
   (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions.
   (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge.
   (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge.
   (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring or sampling.
   (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in Section
16-300 of this Article.
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under Section
16-702 of this Article why the proposed action should not be taken. (Ord. 96-
69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-708-16-749. Reserved:
Sec. 16-750. Injunctive Relief:
   Whenever the Superintendent has determined that a user has violated a
pretreatment standard or requirement or continues to violate the provisions of
this Article, wastewater discharge permits or orders issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment requirement, the Superintendent may petition the Circuit
Court through the City's Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
Article on activities of the industrial user. Such other action as appropriate
for legal and/or equitable relief may also be sought by the City. A petition
for injunctive relief need not be filed as a prerequisite to taking any other
action against a user.
(Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024; Ord. 27-2025, 3-25-2025)
Sec. 16-751. Civil Penalties:
   (a)   Any user which has violated or continues to violate this Article, any
order or wastewater discharge permit hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement shall be liable to the City for a maximum civil penalty
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
   (b)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs,
and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
City.
   (c)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   (d)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a prerequisite for
taking any other action against a user. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-
2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-752. Criminal Prosecution:
   (a)   Any user that willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
Article, any orders or wastewater discharge permits issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or
both.
   (b)   Any user that wilfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or be subject to imprisonment for one
year. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for
personal injury or property damage available under State law.
   (c)   Any user that knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this Article,
wastewater discharge permit or order, or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this Article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day or imprisonment for not more
than one year or both.
   (d)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day or
imprisonment for not more than one year or both. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd.
Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-753. Remedies Nonexclusive:
The provisions in Section
16-752 of this Article are not exclusive remedies. The City reserves the right
to take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant
user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance
with the City's enforcement response plan. However, the City reserves the right
to take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further,
the City is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any
noncompliant user. These actions may be taken concurrently. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-
1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-754-16-799. Reserved:
Sec. 16-800. Upset - An Unintentional And Temporary Noncompliance:
   (a)   For the purposes of this Section, "upset" means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the industrial user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the
extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
   (b)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of subsection (c) of this Section are met.
   (c)   An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of
upset shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating
logs, or other relevant evidence that:
   (1)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the cause(s) of
the upset;
   (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
   (3)   The industrial user has submitted the following information to the
POTW and treatment plant operator within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming
aware of the upset (if this information is provided orally, a written
submission must be provided within five (5) days):
      a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of noncompliance.
      b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or, if
not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to continue.
      c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (d)   In any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (e)   Industrial users will have the opportunity for a judicial
determination on any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards.
   (f)   The industrial user shall control production or all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
upon reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility
is restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996;
amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-801. Affirmative Defense:
An industrial user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action
brought against it for noncompliance with the general and specific prohibitions
in Section
16-300 of this Article if it can prove that it did not know or have reason to
know that its discharge, along or in conjunction with discharges from other
sources would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the industrial
user was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference, or
   (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the City was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements. (Ord.
96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-802. Bypass:
   (a)   Definitions:
   Bypass: The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
   Severe Property Damage: Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. "Severe property damage" does not mean
economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (b)   When Allowed: An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur which
does not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only
if it is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These
bypasses are not subject to the provision of subsections (c) and (d) of this
Section.
   (c)   Notice:
   (1)   If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the POTW, at least ten (10) days before the date
of the bypass, if possible.
   (2)   An industrial user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass
that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the POTW within twenty-four
(24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the industrial user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within twenty-four (24)
hours.
   (d)   Exceptions:
   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW may take enforcement action against
an industrial user for a bypass, unless:
      a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage;
      b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use
of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
      c.   The industrial user submitted notices as required under subsection
(c) of this Section.
   (2)   The POTW may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the POTW determines that it will meet the three (3)
conditions listed in subsection (d)(1) of this Section. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996;
amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
Secs. 16-803-16-849. Reserved:
Sec. 16-850. Severability:
If any provisions, paragraph, word, section or article of this Ordinance is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024,
5-20-2024)
Sec. 16-851. Conflicts:
All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or conflicting
with any part of this Article, are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency or conflict. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996; amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-
2024)
Secs. 16-852-16-899. Reserved:
Sec. 16-900. Effective Date:
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect immediately following its
passage, approval and publication, as provided by law. (Ord. 96-69, 9-23-1996;
amd. Ord. 33-2024, 5-20-2024)
ARTICLE V. STORMWATER
Sec. 16-901. Establishment Of A Stormwater Utility And A Stormwater Fund:
   (a)   The City hereby establishes a stormwater utility to provide for the
management, protection, control, regulation, use and enhancement of the
stormwater systems and to facilities owned or operated by the City.
   (b)   The management and supervision of the stormwater utility shall be
under the direction of the Director of Public Works.
   (c)   The City hereby establishes a stormwater fund. All revenues of the
stormwater utility shall be deposited into the Stormwater Fund and used for
purposes of the stormwater utility as deemed appropriate by the City Council.
(Ord. 74-2002, § 1, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-902. Definitions:
   City: The City of Rock Island, a municipal corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Illinois.
   Combined Sewer: A sewer designed to receive or receiving both wastewater and
storm or surface water.
   Credit: A conditional reduction in the amount of a stormwater service charge
to an individual property based upon the provisions of the "Rock Island
Stormwater Credit Manual".
   Detached Single-Family Residential (DSFR): Developed land containing one
dwelling structure which is not attached to another dwelling and which contains
one or more bedrooms, with a bathroom and kitchen facilities, designed for
occupancy by one family. DSFR units may include houses, manufactured homes and
mobile homes located on one or more individual lots or parcels of land.
Developed land may be classified as a DSFR despite the presence of a commercial
use within the dwelling unit so long as such use does not result in additional
impervious areas such as parking spaces, playgrounds, structures or additions
to the building which are used for nonresidential uses.
   Developed Land: Property that has been altered from its natural state by the
addition of impervious area equal to at least one percent (1%) of the gross
area.
   Gross Area: The entire area of a parcel, including both the impervious and
pervious areas.
   Impervious Area Or Impervious Surface: Those areas that prevent or impede
the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Common impervious areas include,
but are not limited to, rooftops, sidewalks, walkways, patio areas, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas, compacted aggregate and awnings.
   Impervious Area Unit (IAU): Shall be used as the basis for determining the
stormwater service charge to a parcel. Two thousand eight hundred (2,800)
square feet of impervious area shall be one IAU. The number of IAUs attributed
to a parcel will be determined by dividing the total impervious area (square
feet) of the parcel by two thousand eight hundred (2,800) and rounding the
result up to the next integer.
   NPDES Or National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System: The national
permitting program implemented under the Clean Water Act.
   Stormwater System: A conveyance or system of conveyances and includes
sewers, storm drains, curbs, gutters, ditches, retention ponds or basins, dams,
river impoundments, manmade channels or storm drains and flood control
facilities and appurtenances thereof which is designed or used for the
collection, control, transportation, treatment or discharge of stormwater.
Combined sewers are not included in the stormwater system. (Ord. 74-2002, § 1,
9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-903. Scope Of Responsibility For The Stormwater Utility:
The stormwater utility shall be responsible for the operation, maintenance,
management and improvement of the stormwater system owned by the City including
all activities required by the NPDES stormwater permit. (Ord. 74-2002, § 1, 9-
9-2002)
Sec. 16-904. Determination Of Service Charges:
Stormwater service charges shall be determined by the City Council. The revenue
generated by stormwater service charges together with any other sources of
revenue that may be made available to the stormwater utility will be sufficient
to meet the obligations of the stormwater utility. (Ord. 74-2002, § 1, 9-9-
2002)
Sec. 16-905. Service Charges:
 
Customer             Rate Structure Present Rates 2021  2022  2023  2024  2025
Small Single-Family  Per Month      $2.96         $3.21 $3.47 $3.72 $3.98 $4.23
Resident
Medium Single-Family Per Month      $3.95         $4.29 $4.63 $4.97 $5.31 $5.65
Resident
Large Single-Family  Per Month      $4.94         $5.37 $5.79 $6.22 $6.64 $7.07
Resident
Non Single-Family    Per IAU        $3.95         $4.29 $4.63 $4.97 $5.31 $5.65
Resident
 
Special fees and discounts: elderly/handicapped users discount will remain the
same. (Ord. 002-2019, 1-14-2019; Ord. 075-2019, 12-16-2019; Ord. 048-2021, 8-
24-2021)
Sec. 16-906. Exemptions And Credits Applicable To Service Charges:
   (a)   All developed property in the city shall be charged stormwater service
charges except street and highway rights of way owned by a township, Rock
Island County, the city or the state of Illinois.
   (b)   Parcels shall be eligible to receive a stormwater service charge
credit based upon the requirements of the "Rock Island Stormwater Credit
Manual".
   (c)   Any credit allowed against the storm water service charge is
conditioned upon continuing compliance with the "Rock Island Storm Water Credit
Manual". (Ord. 74-2002, § 1, 9-9-2002; Ord. 30-2003, § 1, 4-14-2003)
Sec. 16-907. Billing And Collection Procedures:
   (a)   Billings for stormwater sewer service charges shall be rendered by the
Finance Department on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis at the discretion of
the Finance Department.
               (b)      When stormwater service charges are not paid on or
before the due date stated on the bill, a penalty of five percent (5%) shall be
added. Failure to receive a bill does not entitle the owner or customer to a
remission of penalty.
   (c)   Written notice must be given by the parcel owner or authorized agent
if it is desired that bills be forwarded to any other address than the parcel
address.
   (d)   In the event that the City deems it necessary to refer past due
stormwater service charges to the City Attorney or a collection agency for
collection, the City may additionally recover its actual expenses so incurred,
including court costs, collection agency fees and reasonable attorney fees.
   (e)   A stormwater bill shall be considered delinquent if it remains unpaid
for thirty (30) days after rendition of the bill. (Ord. 74-2002, 9-9-2002; Ord.
029-2008, 4-21-2008)
Sec. 16-908. Service Charges Billed In Common:
The stormwater charge may be billed on a common statement and collected along
with other charges. If the stormwater charge is included on a common statement
and the customer payment is insufficient to pay the total of all portions of
the statement, the payment will be applied according to the priority shown in
section 13-41 of this Code. (Ord. 009-2010, 2-8-2010)
Sec. 16-909. Appeals:
Any customer who believes the provisions of this article have been applied in
error may appeal in the following manner:
      (1)   An appeal must be filed in writing with the Public Works Director.
In the case of service charge appeals, the appeal shall include a survey
prepared by a registered land surveyor or professional engineer containing
information on the total property area, the impervious surface area, and any
stormwater management features, such as detention ponds or conditions which
influence the hydrologic response of the property to rainfall events.
      (2)   Using the information provided by the appellant, the Director of
Public Works shall conduct a technical review of the conditions on the property
and respond to the appeal in writing within sixty (60) days.
      (3)   In response to an appeal, the Director of Public Works may adjust
the stormwater service charge and any late payment penalties applicable to a
property in conformance with the general purpose and intent of this article.
      (4)   A decision of the Director of Public Works that is adverse to an
appellant may be appealed to the City Manager within thirty (30) days of
receipt of notice of the adverse decision. The appeal must be filed in writing
with the City Manager by the appellant and include a detailed explanation of
the grounds for the appeal. The City Manager shall issue a written decision on
the appeal within sixty (60) days.
      (5)   Any appeal of the decision of the City Manager must be made
pursuant to the Illinois Administrative Review Act. (Ord. 74-2002, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-910. Water Resources Advisory Committee:
(Rep. by Ord. 029-2017, 8-28-2017)
ARTICLE VI. CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS OF WAY
Sec. 16-1001. Purpose And Scope:
   (a)   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the City's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the City
rights-of-way and the City as a whole.
   (b)   Intent: In enacting this article, the City intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the City and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
boulevards and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
City's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined boulevards that
characterize the City's residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (c)   Facilities Subject To This Article: This article applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the City. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this article may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (d)   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The City, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the City
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
article.
   (e)   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      (1)   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this article and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (f)   Conflicts With Other Articles: This article supersedes all articles or
parts of articles adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (g)   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
article, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this article to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (h)   Sound Engineering Judgment: The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this article and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this article when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1002. Definitions:
As used in this article and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
   ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
   Applicant: A person applying for a permit under this article.
   Backfill: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   Bore Or Boring: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   Boulevard: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or
sidewalk.
   Cable Operator: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
   Cable Service: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
   Cable System: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
   Carrier Pipe: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   Casing: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   City: The city of Rock Island.
   Clear Zone: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
   Coating: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   Code: The municipal code of the city of Rock Island.
   Conductor: Wire carrying electrical current.
   Conduit: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   Construction Or Construct: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   Cover: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   Crossing Facility: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of
a right of way.
   Disrupt The Right Of Way: For the purposes of this article, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   Emergency: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   Encasement: Provision of a protective casing.
   Engineer: The city engineer or his or her designee.
   Equipment: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   Excavation: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   Extra Heavy Pipe: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   Facility: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this article.
For purposes of this article, the term "facility" shall not include any
facility owned or operated by the city.
   Freestanding Facility: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   Frontage Road: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   Hazardous Materials: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
city public works director to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   Highway: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   Highway Code: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
101 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   Holder: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and
video competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
   IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
   JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
   Jacking: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   Jetting: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   Joint Use: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
   Major Intersection: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
   Occupancy: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
   Parallel Facility: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right of way.
   Pavement Cut: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   Permittee: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to
sections 16-1004 and 16-1005 of this article.
   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
   Practicable: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   Pressure: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   Prompt: That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
   Public Entity: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   Public Works Director: The city public works director or his or her
designee.
   Restoration: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   Right Of Way Or Rights Of Way: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right of way.
   Roadway: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   Sale Of Telecommunications At Retail: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   Security Fund: That amount of security required pursuant to section 16-1010
of this article.
   Shoulder: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   Sound Engineering Judgment: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   Telecommunications: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the city through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
   Telecommunications Provider: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   Telecommunications Retailer: Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   Trench: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   Utility: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as
defined in this section.
   Vent: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   Video Service: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois
cable and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201
(v).
   Water Lines: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   Wet Boring: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 057-2008, §
2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1003. Annual Registration Required:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the public works director, providing the utility's
name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of
one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection
with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of way and a
twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in section 16-1008 of this article, in the form of a
certificate of insurance. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1004. Permit Required; Applications And Fees:
   (a)   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this
article) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a
new facility, 3) disrupts the right of way (as defined in this article), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the public works director and obtaining a permit
from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this article. No permit
shall be required for installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the right of way.
   (b)   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
article shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (c)   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of a professional engineer that such drawings,
plans, and specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in section 16-1008 of this
article;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund or Bond as required in
section 16-1010 of this article;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
article (see section 16-1021 of this article); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (d)   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection (c) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (e)   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within thirty (30) days after
the change necessitating the amendment.
   (f)   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this article shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 057-
2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1005. Action On Permit Applications:
   (a)   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the city public
works director within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the city public works director shall reject such application
in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the city public works director is
satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this article
and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the city public
works director shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all
instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the city public works director, that the construction proposed
under the application shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this
article.
   (b)   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      (1)   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city
that it intends to commence work governed by this article for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the city not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The city public
works director shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the city public works director fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within
either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this article.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section 16-1004 of this article the
telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city an application for a
permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of subsection (a) of this section.
   (c)   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided
the holder has complied with applicable city codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1006. Effect Of Permit:
   (a)   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this article on city rights of way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   (b)   Duration: No permit issued under this article shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (c)   Preconstruction Meeting: A preconstruction meeting may be required by
the city. If a preconstruction meeting is required, no construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this article prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting
shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the city with such city
representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary. The meeting shall be
for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing special
considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including, without
limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area and
their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   (d)   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1007. Revised Permit Drawings:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this article, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with section 16-1021 of this article. If the
city denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall either remove
the facility from the right of way or modify the facility so that it conforms
to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor. (Ord. 057-2008, §
2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1008. Insurance:
   (a)   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in subsections (a)
(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      (3)   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   (b)   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (c)   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city before beginning any work in the
city right of way.
   (d)   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
   It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the city, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the City Engineer of such intent to cancel or not
to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no event
later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (e)   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection (a) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection (a) of this section, or the requirements of
subsections (b), (c) and (d) of this section. A utility that elects to self-
insure shall provide to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its
financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements
required under subsection (a) of this section, such as evidence that the
utility is a "private self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   (f)   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (g)   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-
25-2008)
Sec. 16-1009. Indemnification:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this article or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
article by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1010. Security:
   (a)   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this article;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this article; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this article including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this article to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this article or any other applicable law.
   (b)   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this subsection
shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (c)   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the city public works director, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. In no case shall
the amount be less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the city public
works director may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
   (d)   Withdrawals: The city, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written notice
clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the
fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this article that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (e)   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund,
the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection (c) of this section.
   (f)   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection (c) of this section.
   (g)   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
article or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (h)   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this article or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-
2008)
Sec. 16-1011. Permit Suspension And Revocation:
   (a)   City Right To Revoke Permit: The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this article for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this article;
      (3)   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (b)   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this article
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (c)   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      (1)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      (3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal to the
city within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this subsection.
   (d)   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection (a) of this
section.
   (e)   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection (c) of this section, the city or
its designee may, at the option of the city: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the city. The permittee shall be liable in all events
to the city for all costs of removal. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1012. Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status:
   (a)   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the city no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this article, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   (b)   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city's right of
way.
   (c)   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 057-2008,
§ 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1013. General Construction Standards:
   (a)   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      (2)   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      (3)   "Highway Design Manual";
      (4)   "Highway Standards Manual";
      (5)   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      (6)   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      (7)   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      (8)   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   (b)   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
article, the city public works director shall determine, in the exercise of
sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be
final. If requested, the city public works director shall state which standard
or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1014. Traffic Control:
   (a)   Minimum Requirements: The city's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   (b)   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   (c)   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (d)   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior
to beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any
residence, business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident,
business or institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such
work; provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section 16-1020 of this article, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   (e)   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1015. Location Of Facilities:
   (a)   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      (1)   No Interference With City Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the city public works director determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
city's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the city's utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      (3)   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      (4)   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      (5)   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (b)   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      (1)   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway;
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line; and
         f.   No overhead lines are located in an area designated in city
ordinances as an area where all utilities shall be buried.
      (2)   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
      (3)   Underground Parallel Facilities In Easements: As an alternate
location, parallel underground facilities may be located in an easement
provided by or for the utility of a width deemed adequate by the utility for
such purposes. Said easement shall be adjacent to and parallel with the
existing right of way line, and shall be dedicated for utility purposes.
   (c)   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      (1)   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction Of Electric Power And Communication Lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers: The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   (d)   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (e)   Freestanding Facilities:
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      (2)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   (f)   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (g)   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (h)   Appearance Standards:
      (1)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 057-
2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1016. Construction Methods And Materials:
   (a)   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      (1)   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the city
engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 819 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the city public works director.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill or controlled low strength
material shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the public works director, the utility, at its expense, shall remove
any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place
and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk,
curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the public works
director.
      (4)   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. Unless a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection
(a)(4) is permitted under section 16-1021 of this article, the following
requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6, CA-10, FA 1, FA 2, FA 6,
or FA 21 gradation, as designated by the public works director.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with two inches (2") of well compacted,
cold mix asphalt placed on six inches (6") of well compacted stone shall be
provided immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or
the restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      (5)   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe, when required, shall be designed to withstand the
load of the highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be
continuous either by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed
installation approved by the city.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      (6)   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by city)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   (b)   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      (1)   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communications lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      (2)   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring between the ditch lines, back of curb, or toes
of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench between ultimate ditch lines, back of curb, or toes
of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling, but only if installation is not possible by other
means.
      (3)   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of pipeline
safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 - transportation of
natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards (49 CFR
section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      (6)   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the public works director. With the approval of
the public works director, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used
in place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances
shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (c)   Materials:
      (1)   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on
the right of way without the prior written approval of the city public works
director. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be
obtained from the city.
      (3)   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (d)   Operational Restrictions:
      (1)   Construction operations on rights of way shall, at the discretion
of the city, be discontinued when such operations would create hazards to
traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations may also be
required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such that
construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the public works director when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the city, the hours of construction
are seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   (e)   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 057-
2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
 
Notes
1 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
Sec. 16-1017. Vegetation Control:
   (a)   Electric Utilities-Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (b)   Other Utilities-Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this article.
      (1)   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (c)   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (d)   Chemical Use:
      (1)   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the public works director that such spraying is the only practicable method
of vegetation control. (Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1018. Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities:
   (a)   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
city, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon,
the rights of way.
   (b)   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this article; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (c)   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (d)   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within ninety (90)
days. Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the city public works director
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the city does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 057-2008, § 2, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1019. Cleanup And Restoration:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made in
accordance with specifications provided by the City Engineer. Such cleanup and
repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, resodding, or any
other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. All
areas disturbed by the construction shall be resodded unless reseeding is
approved in writing by the adjacent property owner. Unless other arrangements
can be documented, the permit holder is responsible for watering the restored
area until the new growth is well established. The time period provided in this
section may be extended by the City Public Works Director for good cause shown.
(Ord. 057-2008, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1020. Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance:
   (a)   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the City and at the utility's expense.
   (b)   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
City Public Works Director or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the City police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (c)   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the City a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 057-2008, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1021. Variances:
   (a)   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this article must do so in writing to the City Public
Works Director as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this article from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (b)   Authority To Grant Variances: The City Public Works Director shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this article
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (c)   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The City Public Works Director
may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (d)   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the City Public Works Director may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this article but which carry out the
purposes of this article.
   (e)   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the City
Public Works Director under the provisions of this article shall have the right
to appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the City
Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least
seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely
decide the appeal. (Ord. 057-2008, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1022. Penalties:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when the City will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this article. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the City's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the City. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 057-2008, 8-25-2008)
Sec. 16-1023. Enforcement:
Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the City may have for enforcement of this article. (Ord.
057-2008, 8-25-2008)
Secs. 16-1024 - 16-1100. Reserved:
ARTICLE VII. SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Sec. 16-1101. Purpose And Scope:
   (a)   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act.
   (b)   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This article supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such with the exception that any small wireless
facility agreements between the City and wireless providers that relate to the
collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way, including the
collocation of small wireless facilities on City's utility poles, that are in
effect on June 1, 2018 shall remain in effect as prescribed by sub-paragraph
(h) of section 15 of the Wireless Facilities Deployment Act.
   (c)   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
article, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
article to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 033-2018, 7-9-2018)
Sec. 16-1102. Definitions:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   Antenna: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   Applicable Codes: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   Applicant: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   Application: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   Collocate Or Collocation: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   Communications Service: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   Communications Service Provider: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522
(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   Fee: A one-time charge.
   Historic District Or Historic Landmark: A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section
VI.D.1.a.i through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked
building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the
City pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the
Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation
Office or where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois
State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   Law: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   Micro Wireless Facility: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
   Municipal Utility Pole: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in
public rights-of-way.
   Permit: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   Person: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   Public Safety Agency: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   Rate: A recurring charge.
   Right-Of-Way: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. Right-of-way does not include City-owned aerial lines.
   Small Wireless Facility: A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   Utility Pole: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   Wireless Facility: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   Wireless Infrastructure Provider: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
   Wireless Provider: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   Wireless Services: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   Wireless Services Provider: A person who provides wireless services.
   Wireless Support Structure: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
033-2018, 7-9-2018)
Sec. 16-1103. Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities:
   (a)   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection (c)(9) of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but
not subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-
of-way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   (b)   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the City to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the City, together with the City's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application Process: The City shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   Application Priority: The first completed application shall have
priority over applications received from different applicants for collocation
on the same utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Existing Pole Or Wireless Support Structure: An application to
collocate a small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless
support structure, or replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless
support structure shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be
deemed approved if the City fails to approve or deny the application within
ninety (90) days after the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this article.
         c.   New Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the City fails to
approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this article.
         d.   Application Denial: The City shall deny an application which does
not meet the requirements of this article.
If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions contained
herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the City denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit the
revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is sent
to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The City shall
approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with
the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility
pole, the City and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the City for the initial collocation on a Municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the City and the
applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after
receiving an application, the City shall determine whether the application is
complete and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City
must specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be
deemed complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant
within thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the City.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      (4)   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City;
or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes
or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this article.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable City Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the City by personal
delivery at the City's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (c)   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      (1)   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
article. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   Prohibited: The wireless provider shall not collocate small
wireless facilities on City utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the City utility pole and on the top
of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies
with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   Public Safety: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
      (6)   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a City ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this section, a
wireless provider shall not be required to collocation small wireless
facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be
required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole.
However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility associated with a new utility pole, the City may propose that the
small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      (8)   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      (9)   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions
set forth in section 16-1021 of this chapter.
      (10)   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (11)   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   (d)   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The City shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection (b)(1)d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (e)   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this article authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the City or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this article do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this article
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this article.
   (f)   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this article.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this article for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   (g)   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the City an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the City utility pole.
If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs, the
fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after the
first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (h)   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the City notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City. Such
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 033-2018, 7-9-2018)
Sec. 16-1104. Dispute Resolution:
The Circuit Court of Rock Island County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
City shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 033-2018, 7-9-2018)
Sec. 16-1105. Indemnification:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the City
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this article and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 033-2018, 7-9-2018)
Sec. 16-1106. Insurance:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the City improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of City
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. 033-2018, 7-9-2018)
APPENDIX A
ZONING
ARTICLE I. PURPOSE AND INTENT
1.1
This Appendix, or Code, is adopted pursuant to the City's home rule powers for
the purpose of improving and protecting the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare of the people. The fulfillment of this purpose
is to be accomplished by pursuing the following objectives:
1.1a To lessen congestion on the public streets.
1.1b To avoid undue concentration of population.
1.1c To prevent the overcrowding of land, thereby insuring proper living and
working conditions and preventing the development of blight and slums.
1.1d To establish adequate standards for the provision of light, air, and open
spaces.
1.1e To facilitate the provision of adequate public services such as
transportation, water, sewerage, open space and parks.
1.1f To zone all properties with a view to conserving the value of buildings
and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
1.1g To protect all areas alike from harmful encroachment by incompatible uses
and to ensure that land allocated to a class of uses shall not be usurped by
inappropriate uses within the parameters of the standards and requirements of
this Code.
1.1h To avoid the inappropriate development of lands and provide for adequate
drainage, curbing or erosion, and reduction of flood damage.
1.1i To fix reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall
conform.
1.1j To prevent such additions to, and alterations or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures as would not comply with the restrictions and
limitations imposed herein.
1.1k To foster a more rational pattern of relationship between residential,
business and industrial uses for the mutual benefit of all.
1.1l To recognize the riverfront and adjacent properties as a visual,
environmental, and recreational resource that affects and benefits the City as
a whole.
1.1m To isolate or control the location of unavoidable nuisance-producing uses.
1.1n To define the powers and duties of the administrative and enforcement
officers and bodies.
1.1o To prescribe penalties for any violation of the provisions of this Code,
or of any subsequent amendments hereto.
1.2
The standards and requirements contained in this Code and the district mapping
reflected on the City of Rock Island Zoning Map are intended to implement all
elements of the City of Rock Island Comprehensive Land Use Plan and the other
adopted planning policies of the City. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE II. INTERPRETATION AND SEPARABILITY
2.1
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Code shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where the conditions imposed
by any provision of this Code, upon the use of buildings, structures or land,
or upon the bulk of buildings or structures, are either more restrictive or
less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of
this Code or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of
any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
2.2
This Code is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other
private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this Code are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easements,
covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this Code shall
govern.
2.3
The provisions of this Code are separable as follows:
2.3a If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of this
Code, or any amendment hereto, to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect
any other provisions of this Code not specifically included in said judgment.
2.3b If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this Code, or any amendments hereto, to a
particular building, structure or parcel of land, such judgment shall not
affect the application of said provision to any other building, structure or
parcel of land not specifically included in said judgment. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-
21-2020)
ARTICLE III. SCOPE OF REGULATIONS
3.1
All buildings or structures erected hereafter, all uses of buildings,
structures or land established hereafter, and all structural alteration or
relocation of existing buildings or structures occurring hereafter shall be
subject to all regulations of this Code, or any amendment hereto, which are
applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, structures or
parcels of land shall be located.
3.2
Where a building permit for a building or structure has been issued in
accordance with law prior to the effective date hereof, or any amendment
hereto, and provided that construction was begun before the effective date
hereof, or any amendment hereto, and completion is accomplished within eighteen
(18) months of the adoption of these regulations, or any amendment hereto, said
building or structure may be completed in accordance with the approved plans on
the basis of which the building permit has been issued, and further, may, upon
completion, be occupied for the use for which originally designated, subject
thereafter to the provisions of Chapter. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE IV. ZONING MAP
4.1
Such land and the zoning district classification thereof shall be as shown on
the map designated as the "City of Rock Island Zoning Map," dated and signed by
the City Clerk upon adoption. This zoning map and all notations, dimensions,
references and symbols shown thereon pertaining to such districts will be a
part of this Code as if fully described herein and will be filed as part of
this Code by the City Clerk. Said zoning map will be available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk and any later alterations of this
map adopted by amendment as provided in Chapter of this Code will be similarly
dated, filed and made available for public reference.
4.2
The following rules apply with respect to the boundaries of the various zoning
districts as shown on the City of Rock Island Zoning Map:
4.2a District boundary lines are the centerlines of highways, streets, alleys,
easements, railroad rights-of-way, toll roads, expressways, rivers and other
bodies of water, or section, division of section, tract and lot lines; or such
lines extended, unless otherwise indicated.
4.2b Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
highways, streets, alleys, easements, toll roads or expressways shall be
construed to follow such centerlines.
4.2c Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be
construed as following such lot lines.
4.2d Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following city limits.
4.2e Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to be
the established centerline of the right-of-way or if no centerline is
established, the boundary shall be interpreted to be midway between the right-
of-way lines.
4.2f Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of rivers
or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines, and in
the event of change in the centerline, shall be construed as moving with the
centerline; the centerline shall be interpreted as being midway between the
shorelines.
4.2g Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated in
Subsections
4.2a through 2f of this Section shall be so construed.
4.2h Whenever any street, alley or other public right-of-way is vacated by
official action of the City Council or whenever such area is franchised for
building purposes, the zoning district line adjoining each side of such street,
alley or other public right-of-way shall be automatically extended to the
centerline of such vacated street, alley or public right-of-way and all area so
involved shall then and henceforth be subject to all regulations of the
extended districts.
4.2i Boundaries indicated as dividing a lot or tract shall be construed as
being located as shown on the City of Rock Island Zoning Map.
4.2j Distances not specifically indicated on the City of Rock Island Zoning Map
shall be determined by the scale of the map. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE V: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND
A party seeking to annex property into the City will request a zoning
classification for the property upon filing an application to annex into the
city's municipal boundaries. The requested zoning classification will be
reviewed by the City for consistency with the Comprehensive Plan, as well as
the character of zoning in the area surrounding and abutting the subject
property. The requested zoning classification will be reviewed by the Plan
Commission and the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
A property that is annexed without requesting a zoning classification will be
zoned R-1, One-Unit Residence Zoning District. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE VI. DEFINITIONS
Accessory Building or Use:
   Accessory Structure: A smaller in main floor area and subordinate structure
detached but located on the same lot as the principal structure, the use of
which is incidental and accessory to that of the principal structure.
   Accessory Use: A structure or use that: (a) is clearly incidental to and
customarily found in connection with a principal building or use; (b) is
subordinate to and serves a principal building or a principal use; (c) is
subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building or principal
use serviced; (d) contributed to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of
occupants, business, or industry in the principal building or principal use
served; and (e) is located on the same lot as the principal building or use
served.
   Adjoining: To be separated by a common property line, lot line, or an alley;
abutting, contiguous, or touching.
   Adult Bookstore: An establishment for the sale, rental, or exchange of
books, magazines, or other media, distinguished or characterized by primary
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "Specific Sexual
Activities" or "Specific Anatomical Areas" as defined below including
instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in connection
with specified sexual activities. Adult bookstores do not include businesses
which sell, rent, or exchange books, magazines, or other media as a sideline or
adjunct to sales or rental of books, magazines, or video cassettes not relating
to "Specific Sexual Activities" or "Specific Anatomical Area."
   Specific Sexual Activities are defined as:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.
      Specific Anatomical Areas are defined as:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   Adult Mini-Motion Picture Theaters: An enclosed building with a capacity for
less than fifty (50) persons, used for presenting materials distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
"Specific Anatomical Areas" or "Specific Sexual Activities" for observation by
patrons therein.
   Adult Motion Picture Theaters: An enclosed building with capacity of fifty
(50) or more persons, used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
"Specific Sexual Activities" or "Specific Anatomical Areas" for observation by
patrons therein.
   Adult Modeling and Entertainment Facility: An establishment having its
primary activity the presentation of live models displaying lingerie, or
otherwise presenting live, artistic modeling, with said modeling displaying the
human body in a nude or semi-nude state, distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on "Specific Anatomical Areas" for observation by patrons therein.
   Agricultural Implement Sales and Services: An agribusiness primarily engaged
in the sale or rental of farm tools and implements, feed, grain, tack, animal
care products, and farm supplies. This definition excludes the sale of large
implements, such as tractors and combines, but includes food sales and farm
machinery repair services that are accessory to the principal use.
   Agriculture, Urban: The practice of cultivating, processing, and
distributing food in and around a community by various means that reflect an
urban context. Urban agriculture is also referred to as urban farming. Urban
agriculture is differentiated from regular farming in that the former typically
operates within an urbanized and built up environment, rather than on generally
open and undeveloped land. Common practices include, but are not limited to,
community gardens, roof gardens, composting, having urban chickens, and urban
beekeeping.
   Alley: A public right of way, which affords a secondary, means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street.
   Amusement Center: Any premises which contains four (4) or more coin or token
operated devices played for a fee, such as pinball machines, foosball tables,
pool tables and other similar entertainment or amusement devices.
   Animal Hospital: An establishment for the care and treatment of the diseases
and injuries of animals and where animals may be boarded only during their
convalescence.
   Apartment: A room or suite of rooms in a multi-unit structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen, bath and toilet facilities, permanently installed, must
always be included for each apartment.
   Apartment/Dormitory: A multi-unit dwelling for which each dwelling unit
contains fewer than ten (10) occupants whether related or unrelated. Each unit
shall have two (2) exits and a common area of not less than three hundred (300)
square feet, which may include cooking and dining facilities and shall be
subject to relevant codes or regulations for behavior by students and others in
effect at such educational facility which are enforced by resident personnel of
such educational facility.
   Automobile Repair - Major: A business that provides services in major
reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles, motorcycles, all-terrain
vehicles (ATV), recreational vehicles, towing and collision service, including
body, frame, or fender straightening or repair, painting of motor vehicles,
interior (upholstery, dashboard, etc.) reconstruction and/or repairs, and
restoration services. A major vehicle repair business may also include minor
vehicle repair services.
   Automobile Repair - Minor: A business that provides services in minor
repairs to motor vehicles, motorcycles, and all-terrain vehicles (ATV)
vehicles, including, but not limited to, repair or replacement of cooling,
electrical, fuel and exhaust systems, brake adjustments, relining, and repairs,
wheel servicing, alignment, and balancing, repair and replacement of shock
absorbers, engine rebuilding, and replacement or adjustment of mufflers and
tail pipes, hoses, belts, light bulbs, fuses, windshield wipers/wiper blades,
grease retainers, wheel bearings, and the like. Any type of vehicle repair
services for recreational vehicles or vehicles over one-half (1-1/2) tons
capacity is a major vehicle repair business and does not qualify as minor
repair under this definition regardless of the level of repair service.
   Automobile Sales: The use of any building or portion thereof, or other
premises or portion thereof, for the display, sale, rental, or lease of new
motor vehicles, or used motor vehicles as an ancillary use of a zoning lot, and
any warranty repair work and other repair service conducted as an accessory
use.
   Automobile Service Station: Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires, and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail, and where in addition the following services may be
rendered and sales made, and no other:
      (1)   Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries, distributors and
distributor parts;
      (2)   Tire servicing and repair, but no recapping or regrooving;
      (3)   Replacement of mufflers and tail pipes, water hose, fan belts,
brake fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors, and the like;
      (4)   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
      (5)   Washing and polishing where no mechanical conveyor, blower, or
steam cleaning device is employed provided that no more than one single car bay
of the service station shall be equipped with washing equipment; and provided
that the lot on which the washing equipment is to be located shall be
sufficient to provide on-site waiting storage for a total number of vehicles
equal to the number capable of being processed during one-half (1/2) hour; and
provided that a drip area shall be provided where vehicles can be dried,
located such that water will be confined to the site and will not run onto any
street or alley so as to cause a hazard.
      (6)   Greasing and lubrication;
      (7)   Providing and repairing fuel pumps and lines;
      (8)   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
      (9)   Emergency wiring repairs;
      (10)   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
      (11)   Minor motor adjustments not involving removal of the head or
crankcase or racing the motor;
      (12)   Sale of cold drinks, packaged foods, tobacco, and similar
convenience goods for filling station customers, as accessory and incidental to
principal operation;
      (13)   Provision of road maps and other informational material to
customers and provision of restroom facilities.
      It shall be unlawful to provide major mechanical and bodywork,
straightening of body parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles, trucks
or trailers not in operating condition, or other work involving noise, glare,
fumes, smoke or other such characteristics. An automobile service station is
not a repair garage, a body shop, a car wash, an automobile wrecking yard or
junkyard, nor a storage place for rental trailers.
   Automobile Wrecking Yard: Any place where two (2) or more inoperable
vehicles, or parts thereof, are stored in the open, and are not being restored
to operation, or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or storing
of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, including any used farm vehicles, farm
machinery, construction equipment, recreation vehicles, or parts thereof,
stored in the open and not being restored to operating condition; and including
the commercial salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise. Two (2)
or more unregistered and/or abandoned vehicles stored in the open shall be
prima facie evidence of an automobile wrecking yard.
   Balcony: Is an outside deck located at least on the second floor or any
higher floor of a dwelling building, and can be cantilevered or supported on
piers.
   Bed and Breakfast: Shall mean an operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms
for rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a twelve-month period.
Breakfast may be provided to the guests only. Bed and Breakfast establishments
shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food service
establishments. "Operator" shall mean the owner of the bed and breakfast
establishment, or the owner's agent, who is required to reside in the bed and
breakfast establishment or on contiguous property.
   Boarding House: An establishment with lodging for compensation offering
accommodations for short-term transients or extended periods of time. Meals may
or may not be provided (also referred to as Boarding House, Rooming House,
Lodging House, Lodging Room, does not include Bed and Breakfast or Short-Term
Rental uses).
   Book/Stationery Store: An establishment dealing in books, printed materials
and stationery supplies, which is not an adult bookstore.
   Building: Any permanently anchored structure used or intended for supporting
or sheltering any use or occupancy. When a building is divided into separate
parts by unpierced walls, each part shall be deemed a separate building (see
structure).
   Building, Completely Enclosed: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures, by a
permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows
and normal entrance or exit doors.
   Building, Height of: The vertical distance above a reference datum measured
to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a
mansard roof or to peak a pitched or hipped roof. The reference datum shall be
selected by either of the following, whichever yields a greater height of
building:
      (1)   The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five-foot (5') horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the
building when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet (10')
above lowest grade.
      (2)   An elevation ten feet (10') higher than the lowest grade when the
sidewalk or ground surface described in Item 1 above is more than ten feet
above lowest grade.
      (3)   The height of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum of any
segment of the building.
   Building, Structure: Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location
on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Structures include, but not limited to: buildings, walls, swimming pools, signs
and fences.
   Building Set-back Line: See "Setback."
   Bulk Storage: Means the storage of flammable or combustible liquid in an
above ground tank that is not for dispensing purposes. If an above ground tank
is used for any bulk storage purposes, it is classified as a "bulk storage
tank" for the remainder of the calendar year in which it was so used.
   Campground: Temporary or permanent buildings, tents, or other structures
established or maintained as a temporary living quarter, operated continuously
for a period of five days or more for recreation, religious, education, or
vacation purposes.
   Cannabis: Any species of the family Cannabaceae including but not limited to
Cannabis sativa, Cannabis indica, and Cannabis ruderalis used for recreational,
medicinal, or industrial purposes. This term shall refer to marijuana, hashish,
and other substances that are identified as including any parts of the plant,
whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of
the plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC) and all other naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction or independently by chemical synthesis or
by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; however, "cannabis" does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil
or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the
resin extracted from it), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the
plant that is incapable of germination. "Cannabis" does not include industrial
hemp as defined and authorized under the Illinois Industrial Hemp Act.
"Cannabis" also means concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
   Cannabidiol (CBD): A chemical derived from cannabis that is used primarily
for medical purposes. CBD has less pronounced psychoactive effects than THC.
   Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): A chemical derived from cannabis that is used
primarily for recreational purposes. THC is the principal psychoactive chemical
in cannabis.
   Cannabis Business Establishment: An adult-use cannabis cultivation center,
consumption business, craft grower, processing organization, infuser
organization, dispensing organization, or transporting organization.
   Cannabis Craft Grower: A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry,
cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Cannabis Cultivation Center: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Cannabis Dispensing Organization: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Packaged Product Dispensing Business: Any premises where sale of packaged
cannabis products is the principal use. Consumption of cannabis at these
premises is prohibited.
   On-Site Consumption Dispensing Business: Any premises wherein cannabis is
sold at retail for consumption on the premises as the principal use. Such
businesses include but are not limited
to cannabis cafes, cannabis smoking lounges, cannabis vaping lounges, and
cannabis clubs. These facilities may also engage in packaged cannabis sales.
   Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   Cannabis Transportation Organization of Transporter: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   Care Home, Large Residential: A Residential Care Home for more than eight
(8) persons, plus supervisory or oversight personnel, living together as a
single housekeeping unit who are disabled, as defined by "Disability" in this
appendix, for the primary purpose of providing shelter.
   Care Home, Small Residential: A Residential Care Home containing a single
one-unit dwelling unit for eight (8) persons or fewer, plus supervisory or
oversight personnel, living together as a single housekeeping unit for the
primary purpose of providing shelter in a family-like atmosphere.
   Carport: A roofed structure providing space for the parking of motor
vehicles that may be enclosed on not more than three sides.
   Cemetery: A place dedicated to and used, or intended to be used, for
permanent interment of human remains. A cemetery may contain land or earth
interments; mausoleum, a vault, crypt interments; a columbarium or other
structure or place used or intended to be used for the inurnment of cremated
human remains; or any combination of one or more of such structures or places.
   Church: See definition for religious institution.
   Clinic or Medical Health Center: A building containing an individual
practitioner or an association or group of physicians, dentists, clinical
psychologists, or similar professional health care practitioners, including
assistants. The clinic may include apothecary, dental and mental laboratories,
and/or x-ray facilities, but shall not include inpatient or overnight care.
   Club or Lodge, Private: Non-profit association of persons, who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building, or portion
thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises provided
adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. The sale of
alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed provided such
sale of alcoholic beverages follows the applicable Federal, State and Municipal
laws.
   Comprehensive Plan: The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the City to
guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of the City. The
comprehensive plan includes, but is not limited to, plans and programs
regarding the location, character, and extent of highways, bridges, public
buildings or uses, utilities, schools, residential, commercial or industrial
land uses, parks, drainage facilities, etc.
   Convenience Store: Any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged
food products, household items, commercial products associated with minor auto
servicing (but not automobile parts), and other goods commonly associated with
the same including the retail dispensing of vehicular fuels.
   Day Care Home: A family dwelling unit occupied by attending family which
receives more than three (3) and up to a maximum of eight (8) children for less
than twenty-four (24) hours a day. The maximum of eight (8) children includes
the family's natural or adopted children and all other persons under the age of
twelve (12). A Day Care Home may also be a family home which receives adults
who are sixty (60) years of age or older.
   Day Care Center: A child care facility which regularly provides day care for
less than twenty-four (24) hours per day for (a) more than eight (8) children
in a family dwelling unit, or (b) more than three (3) children in a facility
other than a family dwelling unit.
   Deck: Is an outside porch without a roof not necessarily attached to a
dwelling wall, whose floor is built on a foundation, piers, or blocks, as a
distinct structure requiring a building permit, above ground grade, limited to
a maximum height of the adjacent first floor level in the dwelling. It is not
allowed any higher level than above grade, to avoid the deck floor from
creating a de facto roofed porch underneath; but a deck can be located on the
existing roof of dwellings and garages.
   Disability: As defined by the Americans with Disability Act (ADA), a person
who has:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more major life activities;
      (2)   A record of such an impairment; or
      (3)   Is regarded as having such an impairment.
   District, Zoning: A portion of the territory of the City wherein uniform
requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots, and
uses under the terms of the zoning ordinance.
   Dormitory: A building used as group living quarters for a student body
operated by a college or university or other such institution of higher
education, subject to relevant codes and regulations for behavior of students
and others in effect at such educational facility which are enforced by
resident personnel at such institution.
   Dwelling Group: Two or more one-unit, two-unit or multiple-unit dwellings,
or boarding or lodging houses, located on one zoning lot, but not including
tourist courts or motels.
   Dwelling, One-unit: A building designed exclusively for use and occupancy by
one family, and entirely separated from any other dwelling by space totaling at
least 900 square feet and the structures length does not exceed four times its
width and is affixed to a permanent masonry or concrete footing and/or
foundation.
   Dwelling, Two-unit: A building designed or altered to provide dwelling units
for occupancy by two families.
   Dwelling, Multiple-unit: A building or portion thereof designed or altered
for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other.
   Dwelling, Row (Townhouse): A row of two or more attached, one-unit, party-
wall dwellings.
   Dwelling Unit: One or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as
living quarters for a family or for a community residence as a single
housekeeping unit. A dwelling unit includes bathroom and kitchen facilities in
addition to sleeping and living areas.
   Easement: A right to use a portion of another person's real property for
certain limited purposes.
   Educational Institution: Public, private, or parochial school, charitable or
non-profit junior college, college or university, other than trade or business
schools, including instructional and recreational uses, with or without living
quarters, dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants and other incidental
facilities for students, teachers and employees.
   Essential Services: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies, of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, elevated and underground
water storage tanks, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith,
reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public
utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health
or safety or general welfare but not including buildings.
   Family: One or more persons each related to them by blood, marriage, or
adoption (including foster children), together with such relatives of the
respective spouses who are living with the family in a single dwelling and
maintaining a common household. A family may also be composed of not to exceed
three (3) persons not so related, provided that such unrelated persons live in
a single dwelling and maintain a common household and single housekeeping unit.
A family includes any domestic servants and not more than one gratuitous guest
residing with said family; such servants or guest shall be included in the
unrelated persons attained by this definition, and shall not be in addition
thereto.
   Farm: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such
as vegetables, fruit, trees, flora, fauna, and grain, and their storage on the
area, as well as for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry feeding of
such farm poultry and farm animals shall be subject to the regulations of the
State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. The term "farming" includes
the operating of such an area for one or more of the above uses, including
dairy farms with the necessary accessory uses for treating and storing the
produce, provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall
be secondary to that of the normal farming activities, and provided further
that farming does not include the extraction of minerals. The term "farm"
includes farm dwellings.
   Fast Food Restaurant: An establishment whose principal business is the sale
of rapidly prepared food directly to the customer in a ready-to-consume state
for consumption either within the restaurant building or off premises. The
establishment may include a drive-up or drive-through service facility or
offers curb service.
   Fence: A structure, other than a building, which is an artificially
constructed barrier of approved material or combination of materials erected to
enclose or screen areas of land. Decorative corner treatments which do not
exceed six feet (6') in length and three feet (3') in height are not considered
fences if it allows for fifty percent (50%) or more open visibility.
   Foster Family Home: A family home which provides full-time family care to
foster children unrelated to them. Foster family homes are limited to a maximum
of eight (8) children, including the foster family's children, unless all of
the children unrelated to the foster family are of common parentage, or the
applicable department of the State of Illinois has waived the limit of eight
(8) unrelated children to facilitate an adoptive placement.
   Foster Group Homes: A child care facility which regularly provides care for
no more than ten (10) children placed by and under the supervision of a child
welfare agency licensed by the applicable department of the State of Illinois.
Adult supervision shall be provided on a twenty-four (24) hour basis.
   Frontage Lots: See Lots, Multiple Frontage
   Garage, Bus or Truck: A building which is used or intended to be used for
the storage of motor trucks, truck trailers, tractors, commercial vehicles, and
buses exceeding one and one-half (1-1/2) ton capacity.
   Garage, Private: A detached accessory building or portion of a principal
building used for storage of self-propelled passenger vehicles or trailers of
the occupants of the premises and/or not more than (1) truck of a rated
capacity exceeding one and one-half (1-1/2) tons.
   Halfway House/Group Home: A temporary residential living arrangement for up
to five (5) persons, excluding staff, who are receiving therapy, counseling
and/or care from support staff who are present at all times residents are
present, for the following purposes:
      (1)   To help them re-enter society while housed under supervision while
under constraints of alternatives to imprisonment including, but not limited
to, pre-release, work release, and probationary programs.
      (2)   To help persons with family or school adjustment problems that
require specialized attention and care in order to achieve personal
independence;
      (3)   To provide temporary shelter for persons who are victims of
domestic abuse and/or neglect; or
      (4)   To provide adult congregate living arrangements without nursing
care.
   Hazardous Waste: Any substance or material that, by reason of its toxic,
caustic, corrosive, abrasive or otherwise injurious properties, may be
detrimental or deleterious to the health of any person handling or otherwise
coming into contact with such material or substance. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) has developed a list of hazardous wastes based upon
corrosivity, reactivity, and toxicity. Hazardous substances include, but are
not limited to, inorganic mineral acids of sulfur, fluorine, chlorine,
nitrogen, chromium, phosphorous, selenium and arsenic and their common salts,
lead, nickel, and mercury and their inorganic salts, or metallo-organic
derivatives; coal, tar acids, such as phenol and cresols and their salts, and
all radioactive materials.
   Health/Recreational and Physical Training Club: An indoor facility including
uses such as game courts, exercise equipment, locker rooms, training studios,
Jacuzzi and/or sauna, and pro shop.
   Height: See Building, height of.
   Hemp: Otherwise known as "industrial hemp," this material is made from
Cannabis with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) concentration of not more
than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis that has been cultivated under a license
issued under the Illinois Industrial Hemp Act or is otherwise lawfully present
in the State of Illinois, and includes any intermediate or finished product
made or derived from industrial hemp.
   Home Occupation: An occupation or profession customarily carried on by an
occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use, and which is clearly incidental
to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes. There are major and
minor home occupations which are clearly addressed under the General Provisions
of this appendix.
   Hospital or Sanitarium: An institution in which patients or injured persons
are given medical or surgical care; or for the care of contagious diseases or
terminal patients, and may include inpatient overnight care.
   Hotel: A facility offering transient lodging accommodations on a daily rate
to the general public and providing additional services, such as restaurants,
meeting rooms, and recreational facilities and is not a bed and breakfast (also
see "Motel").
   Hotel, Transient: See Boarding House.
   Household Hazardous Waste: A hazardous waste that can catch fire, react, or
explode under certain circumstances, or that is corrosive or toxic. Common
household hazardous waste items, and others not included on this list, might
contain materials that are ignitable, corrosive, reactive, or toxic such as:
drain openers, oven cleaners, wood and metal cleaners and polishers, automotive
oil and fuel additives, grease and rust solvents, carburetor and fuel injection
cleaners, air conditioning refrigerants, starter fluids, paint thinners, paint
strippers and removers, adhesives, herbicides, insecticides, and fungicides/
wood preservatives.
   Independent Trailer Coach or Independent Mobile Home: A transportable non-
permanent single-unit dwelling unit on wheels suitable for year-round occupancy
and containing the same water supply, waste disposal, heating and air
condition, electrical conveniences and with self-contained toilet and bath or
shower facilities as conventional housing. This definition is not intended to
include recreational vehicle types.
   Junk Yard: Open area where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags, or similar
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or
handled, including auto and building wrecking yards.
   Kennel: Any structure or premises where dogs and cats over four (4) months
of age are kept, raised, bred or boarded for commercial purposes excluding
animal hospitals, clinics and pet shops.
   Land Use Plan: The comprehensive long-range plan for the desirable use of
land in the jurisdiction, as officially adopted and as amended from time to
time by the City Council, the purpose of such plan being among other things, to
serve as a guide to the zoning and prospective changes in the zoning of land to
meet changing community needs in the subdividing and use of undeveloped land.
   Legal Objector: The owner of a lot, parcel, or tract of land, which is next
to a lot, parcel, or tract of land, for which a Special Use is proposed or
which is the subject of an amendment of this appendix. For the purposes of this
appendix, a lot shall be deemed to be next to another if the lots, parcels, or
tracts share a common lot boundary line in whole or in part or if a common lot
boundary in whole or in part would occur if all street, highway, or alley
right-of-way between such lots were excluded.
   Loading and Unloading Space, Off-Street: An open hard-surfaced area of land
other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor trucks, tractors, and trailers, to
avoid undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys.
   Lodging or Rooming House: See Boarding House.
   Lodging Room: See Boarding House.
   Lot: A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate
or future) of development or transfer of ownership. A lot may or may not
coincide with a "lot of record."
   Lot Area/Coverage: The area of the lot covered by buildings above grade,
excluding permitted projections.
   Lot of Record: An area of land designated as a lot on a plat recorded with
the Recorder of Deeds of Rock Island County, Illinois in accordance with State
law.
   Lot, Corner: A lot having at least two (2) adjacent sides that abut for
their full length upon streets.
   Lot, Front or Frontage: The length of any one property line of a premises,
which property line abuts a legally accessible street right of way, except
alleys.
   Lot, Multiple Frontage: A lot that fronts on two or more street right of
ways, such as corner lots, through lots, etc.
   Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
   Lot Line, Rear: The lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel and most
remote from the front lot line.
   Lot Line, Side: A lot line which is not a front or rear lot line.
   Lot, Reversed Corner: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
   Lot, Through: A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two (2) approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
   Lot, Width: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
right angles to the side lot lines at the front building line.
   Lot, Zoning: A single tract of land located within a single block, which (at
the time of filing for a building permit) is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or control. Therefore, a "zoning lot" may or may not coincide
with a lot of record.
   Mobile Home: A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation after fabrication on streets of highways on its own wheels or on
a flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other
temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A
travel trailer, self-contained motor home or other recreational vehicle is not
to be considered a mobile home.
   Modular Home: Factory-built housing certified to meet the current building
codes and amendments as adopted by Rock Island County, IL and the requirements
of the Illinois Department of Public Health, applicable to modular housing.
Once certified by the state, modular homes shall be subject to the same
standards as site-built homes.
   Motel: A building or a group of buildings, whether attached or in connected
units, used as individual sleeping units designed primarily for transient
travelers and providing for accessory off-street parking facilities. The term
"motel" includes but is not limited to buildings designated as auto courts,
tourist courts, motor hotels, motor lodges, and similar terms.
   Motor Freight Terminal: A building or area in which trucks, including
tractor or trailer units, are parked, stored, or serviced, including the
transfer, loading or unloading of goods. A terminal may include facilities for
the temporary storage of loads prior to shipment.
   Nightclub: A tavern or other commercial establishment where alcoholic
beverages and/or food are served for consumption on premises and a dance floor
and/or entertainment are provided. See also "Tavern."
   Non-conforming Use: A lawful use of land that does not comply with the use
regulations for its zoning district but which complied with applicable
regulations at the time the use was established.
   Nursery School: An institution providing instructional/educational services
for six preschool aged children.
   Ordinance: Reference to "Ordinance" herein shall be construed as the Zoning
Ordinance.
   Outdoor Storage: The storage of any product, goods, equipment, machinery,
vehicles, boats, supplies, building materials or commodities, including raw,
semi-finished and finished materials, the storage of which is not accessory to
a residential use and is outside of a fully enclosed building. Vehicular
parking, fleet vehicles, and the display of automobiles, boats, truck, or farm
equipment associated with a legally established vehicle sales or rental use
shall not be deemed outdoor storage.
   Owner: The word "owner" applies to the entity in which title is vested in
the building or land.
   Parking Area, Accessory: An area of one or more parking spaces located at
the same property as the building, structure or premises it is intended to
serve, or on adjoining or nearby property and of such shape and nature as to be
appropriate and usable for the parking or storage, loading and unloading of
self-propelled vehicles.
   Parking Space, Automobile: Space within a public or private parking area of
not less than 160 square feet (eight and one-half feet by nineteen feet)
exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work areas,
for the storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and
one-half ton capacity.
   Person: An individual, group of individuals, corporation, association,
partnership, joint venture or other entity, and includes any trustee, estate,
receiver, assignee or personal representative.
   Plan Commission: Planning Commission of the City of Rock Island.
   Planned Unit Development: A planned unit development is a parcel of land or
contiguous parcels of land of a size sufficient to create its own environment,
controlled by a single land-owner or by a group of landowners in common
agreement as to which is compatible with adjacent parcels, and the intent of
the zoning district or districts in which it is located. The developer or
developers of a planned unit development may be granted relief from specific
land-use regulations and design standards and may be awarded certain premiums
in return for assurances of an overall quality of development, including any
specific features which will be of exceptional benefit to the community as a
whole.
   Porch: Is a roofed structure (either enclosed or unenclosed), attached to
one or two permanent exterior walls of a dwelling building, whose floor is at
or just below the level of the dwelling first floor adjacent to the porch.
   Principal Building: A building in which the primary use of the lot on which
the building is located is conducted.
   Property Owner: Any individual, group of individuals, association,
corporation, joint stock association, joint venture, or any other entity in
whose name the legal title to the real estate is recorded.
   Recreational Vehicle: A general term for a vehicular unit bearing current
license and/or registration, not exceeding thirty-six (36) feet in overall
length, eight (8) feet in width or twelve (12) feet in overall height, which
includes but is not limited to the following specific vehicle types:
      (1)   Camper Trailer: A folding or collapsible vehicular structure
without its own (motive) power designed as temporary living quarters for
travel, camping, recreation and vacation uses; and (to) be licensed and
registered for highway use.
      (2)   Travel Trailer: A rigid structure without its own motive power
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreation and vacation
use; to be licensed and registered for highway use; and which, when equipped
for the road, has a body width of not more than eight (8) feet, six (6) inches.
      (3)   Truck Camper: A portable structure without its own motive power
designed to be transported on a power vehicle as a temporary dwelling for
travel, camping, recreation and vacation use; and which, in combination with
the carrying vehicle (shall) be licensed and registered for highway use.
      (4)   Motor Home: A vehicular unit built on or as a part of a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis, primarily designed to provide temporary
dwelling for travel, camping, recreation and vacation use; and to be licensed
and registered for highway use. This category shall include converted bus
campers.
      (5)   Boat Trailer: A vehicular structure without its own motive power
designed to transport a boat for recreation and vacation use and which is
licensed and registered for highway use.
      (6)   Horse Trailer: A vehicular structure without its own motive power
designed primarily for the transportation of horses and which, in combination
with the towing vehicle, is licensed and registered for highway use.
      (7)   Utility Trailer: A vehicular structure without its own motive power
designed and/or used for the transportation of all manner of motor vehicles,
goods or materials and licensed and registered for highway use.
      (8)   Recreational Boat: A vessel, whether impelled by wind, oars or
mechanical devices, and which is designed primarily for recreation or vacation
use. A recreation vessel when mounted upon a boat trailer shall be considered
one unit. If the recreational vehicle is equipped with liquefied gas
containers, they shall meet the standards of the Interstate Commerce Commission
or the Federal Department of Transportation standards in existence at the
passage of this appendix.
   Refuse Equipment Operation: The storage, repair, maintenance, sale or lease
of equipment used in the collection, storage or transportation of refuse,
including but not limited to vehicles, containers and any repair, parts,
accessories and appurtenances thereof.
   Religious Institution: A building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, where persons regularly assemble for institutional religious purposes and
related social events. The buildings and uses are maintained and managed by a
religious body organized to support religious activities and purposes. While a
private home may host a religious activity, such as a prayer group and/or
religious study, it shall not be covered by this definition unless the home is
maintained and maintained institutionally by a religious body.
   Residential Solid Waste: Waste that normally originates in a residential
environment.
   Restaurant: A food establishment serving full course meals prepared on the
premises and which may serve alcoholic beverages.
   Right of Way: A strip of land dedicated to the City or other unit of
government for streets, alleys, and other public improvements.
   Set-back: The minimum horizontal distance between the lot or property line
and the nearest front, side or rear line of the building, including terraces or
any covered projection thereof.
   Short-Term Rental: Any rental property where the term of the rental is less
than thirty (30) days in duration. These are often but not always facilitated
by digital platforms that assist with booking and promotional services. These
are distinct from traditional bed and breakfast establishments in that they are
often less formal, impermanent, and target a different market. These are
distinct from hotels, motels, and similar types of lodging.
   Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems: A solar energy system where an array is
mounted on the ground.
   Solar Array: Multiple solar panels combined together to create one system.
   Solar Energy: Radiant energy (direct, diffused, or reflected) received from
the sun at wavelengths suitable for conversion into thermal, mechanical,
chemical, or electrical energy.
   Solar Energy System: Any solar collector or other solar energy device, or
any structural design feature, mounted on a building or on the ground, and
whose primary purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and
distribution of solar energy for space heating or cooling, water heating, or
electricity. Such systems shall be considered equipment and not accessory
structures.
   Solar Energy Facilities: An alternative energy facility that consists of one
or more ground-mounted, free-standing, or building-integrated solar collection
devices, solar energy related equipment, and other associated infrastructure
with the primary intention of generating electricity or otherwise converting
solar energy to a different form of energy for primarily commercial or other
off-site use.
   Solar Thermal System: A solar energy system that directly heats water or
other liquid using sunlight. Consists of a series of tubes that concentrate
light to heat either water or a heat-transfer fluid. The heated liquid is used
for such purposes as space heating and cooling, domestic hot water, and heating
pool water.
   Tilt: The angle of the solar panels as installed per manufacturers
installation instructions.
   Tobacco Business, Retail: Any premises where the sale of tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products is the principal use,
as defined by the sale of said products generating more than 80% of gross
revenue for the premise.
   Stable, Riding: A stable shall mean a building or buildings, including other
structures, and grounds used for the boarding or housing of horses used for
riding sessions or pleasure riding on the premises.
   Story: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a usable or unused under floor space is more than six (6) feet
above grade as defined herein for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total
perimeter or is more than twelve feet (12') above grade as defined herein at
any point, such usable or unused under-floor space shall be considered as a
story.
   Story, Half: A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than four
(4) feet above the floor of such story.
   Street: A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term "street"
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or way for pedestrian use only.
   Structural Alteration: Any changes in the supporting members of a building
including but not limited to bearing walls, load-bearing walls, load-bearing
partitions, columns, beams or girders or any substantial change in the roof or
the exterior walls.
   Structure: Is that which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner.
   Tavern or Bar: Any premises wherein alcoholic beverages are sold at retail
for consumption on the premises as the principal uses; and where sandwiches,
snacks and other food products are available for purchase. "Tavern" does not
include "restaurants," where the principal business is serving food (includes
"Bar" and "Cocktail Lounge"). (See Nightclub".)
   Terrace/Patio: Is an unroofed paved area located outside at ground grade,
which is paved as concrete, stone, brick or wood paver blocks (also known as
patio blocks).
   Theater: An establishment used to observe films and other visual material
which is neither an Adult Motion Picture Theater nor Adult Mini-Motion Picture
Theater.
   Tourist Courts, Motor Lodges, Motels: A group of attached or detached
buildings containing individual sleeping or living units, designed for or used
temporarily by automobile, tourists or transients, with garage attached or
parking space conveniently located to each unit, including auto courts, motels,
motor lodges or other similar type uses.
   Toxic Waste: Any combination of pollutants, including disease-carrying
agents, that, after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation or
assimilation into any organism, can cause death or disease, mutations,
deformities or malfunctions in such organisms or their offspring and that
adversely affect the environment, which are being discarded by being disposed,
incinerated or recycled.
   Trailer Park or Mobile Home Park: An area of land upon which two (2) or more
occupied trailer coaches or mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or
for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent,
vehicles, or enclosure used or intended for as, a part of the equipment of such
trailer coach park.
   Truck Parking Area or Yard: Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, tractors, truck trailers, and including
commercial vehicles, while not loading or unloading. Does not include Class B
trucks.
   Unrelated Group Family: A group of no more than five (5) unrelated adults
living together as a common household by doing their own cooking and living
together, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging
house, club, fraternity, sorority, or hotel. Unrelated group families are
permitted with administrative approval, provided that they comply with the
standards and conditions specified in General Provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance.
   Vehicle Impound and Towing Yard: Any place used for the temporary outdoor
storage of vehicles which have been towed by a towing company or for the
storage of impounded vehicles, but does not include permanent storage or
dismantling of vehicles. Any vehicle stored on the premise for longer than one
hundred eighty (180) days shall be considered permanent storage. This
definition excludes Junk Yards and Automobile Wrecking Yards.
   Yard: The space adjacent to lot lines which is required to be open and
unobstructed from its lowest level upward except as otherwise permitted. The
minimum depth or width of a yard shall consist of the horizontal distance
between the lot line and nearest point of the foundation or exterior wall of a
building.
   Yard, Front: An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
principal building and the street right-of-way except for an alley, unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as hereinafter specified.
   Yard, Rear: An open space extending the full width of a lot between a
building and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as hereinafter specified.
   Yard, Side: An open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between a building and the side lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as hereinafter specified.
   Zoning Maps: The map or maps incorporated into this appendix as a part
hereof. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020; Ord. 005-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 38-2024, 6-
10-2024)
ARTICLE VII. ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
7.1
It shall be the duty of the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator, or
designee, with the aid of the Police Department, to enforce this Appendix in
accordance with the administrative provisions of this Appendix.
7.2
Every application for a building permit shall be accompanied by plans in
duplicate and plot plan drawn to scale in ink or blue print, showing the actual
shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact location, size and
height of the building or structure to be erected or altered, the existing and
intended use of each building or part, the proposed number of families or
housekeeping units, and such other information with regard to the lot and
neighboring lots as may be necessary for the enforcement of this Appendix. One
(1) copy of such plans shall be returned to the applicant when approved by the
Chief Building Official together with such permit as may be granted.
7.3
Prior to building construction, stakes based on actual survey shall be set and
shall be maintained in their prior location on the property during
construction.
7.4
Before using any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, or enlarged in use of structure, a Certificate of
Occupancy shall be obtained from the Building Official. Such Certificate shall
show that such building, premises or part thereof, and the proposed use thereof
conform with the provisions of this Appendix.
7.5
It will be unlawful for any person to violate, disobey, neglect, omit, refuse
to comply with, or resist the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Zoning Ordinance.
7.6
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this Appendix shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than twenty-five ($25.00) dollars, nor more than
seven hundred fifty ($750.00) dollars for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing in this
Appendix will limit, reduce, or otherwise influence the City's rights or
remedies at law or in equity.
7.7
In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of the provisions of this Appendix, the City Attorney, in
addition to other remedies under the Illinois Revised Statutes, is hereby
authorized to institute an action or proceedings to prevent such erection,
constructions, reconstructions, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or
use. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE VIII. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS (BZA)
8.1 Creation, Membership, and Procedure:
8.1a A Board of Zoning Appeals consisting of seven (7) members shall be
appointed by the Mayor and approved by City Council in accordance with the
provisions of the Illinois Revised Statutes. The appointing authority may
remove any member of the Board for cause and after a public hearing.
8.1b The Board shall elect its own chair and have the power to adopt rules and
regulations for its own government, not inconsistent with law or with the
provisions of this or any other Ordinance of the City of Rock Island. Meetings
shall be held at the call of the chair and at such other times as the Board may
determine. The chair, or in their absence, the vice chair, may administer oaths
and compel attendance of the witnesses.
8.1c Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public, minutes shall be kept
of proceedings, showing the action of the Board and the vote of each member
upon each question, or if absent, or failing to vote, indicating that fact and
records shall be made of the Board's examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be filed immediately in the Office of the Board.
8.1d Four (4) members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall
act by resolution, and the concurring vote of four (4) members shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Planning and Redevelopment Administrator, or to decide in favor of an applicant
any matter upon which it is required to pass under this Appendix, or to affect
any variation in the requirements of this Appendix.
8.1e The Board may call on the City's departments for assistance in the
performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of such departments to
render such assistance to the Board as may reasonably be required.
8.2 Applications and Appeals:
An application to the Board, in cases in which it has original jurisdiction
under the provisions of this Appendix, may be taken by any property owner,
including a tenant, or by any governmental officer, department, board or
bureau. Such application shall be filed with the Planning and Redevelopment
Administrator who transmits the same, together with all the plans,
specifications and other papers pertaining to the application, to the Board.
8.3 Appeal:
8.3a An appeal to the Board may be taken by any property owner, including a
tenant, or by any governmental officer, department, board or bureau, affected
by any ruling of the building official. Such an appeal shall be taken within a
reasonable time, as prescribed by the rules of the board, by filing with the
planning and redevelopment administrator a notice of appeal, specifying grounds
thereof. The Planning and Redevelopment Administrator shall forthwith transmit
to the board such notice of appeal, together with all the plans and papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. Said
application shall be accompanied by a fee. Should the application be withdrawn
prior to publication of legal notice thereon, such fee will be returned upon
the written request of the applicant.
8.3b The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing on an application
for appeal. It shall give at least fifteen (15) days notice of the time and
place of such hearing by insertion in a daily newspaper published in the City
of Rock Island, and shall also give notice delivered personally or by mail at
least five (5) days before the time fixed for such hearing to the applicant or
appellant, and to the respective owners of record of property adjoining or
adjacent to the premises in question. Any party may appear at such hearing in
person or by agent, or by attorney. The Board shall decide the application or
appeal within a reasonable time.
8.4 Stay of Proceedings:
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Chief Building Official certifies to the Board that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in their opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by an order which may on due cause shown, be granted by
the Board on an application, after notice to the Chief Building Official or by
a court of record.
8.5 Powers of the Board:
The Board shall have jurisdiction in matters and shall have the specific and
general powers provided by this Appendix pertaining to:
8.5a Variances to Zoning and Sign Ordinances Regulations.
8.5b Special Exceptions.
8.5c Non-Conforming Uses.
8.5d Temporary Uses.
8.5e Certain Industries in I-2 Districts.
8.5f Interpretation of Maps.
8.5g Administrative Review.
8.6 Variances:
8.6a To authorize or appeal in specific cases, such variances from the terms of
the Zoning and Sign Ordinances as will not be contrary to the public interest,
where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
this Appendix will result in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of
Zoning and Sign Ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done, as
follows: Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a
specific piece of property, at the time of enactment of Zoning and Sign
Ordinances, or by reason of topographic conditions, or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property, or of the use or
development of property immediately adjoining the piece of property in
question, the literal enforcement of the provisions of the Zoning and Sign
Ordinances would result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties or
exceptional and undue hardship upon the owner of such property, unnecessary to
carry out the spirit and purpose of this Appendix shall be observed and
substantial justice done. In authorizing a variance, the Board may attach
thereto such reasonable conditions regarding the location, character and other
features of the proposed building, structure or use as it may deem advisable in
the interest of the furtherance of the purposes of the Zoning and Sign
Ordinances.
8.6b The Board shall make final decisions on all variances except for variances
for business zoned properties on parcels twenty thousand (20,000) square feet
or larger in total area. In those circumstances, the Board will conduct the
public hearing and then make a recommendation to the City Council for final
action.
8.6c No such variance in the provisions or requirements of this Appendix shall
be authorized by the Board and/or City Council unless the Board and/or City
Council finds that at least two of the following three conditions exist:
   (1)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted
to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in that zone;
   (2)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances. There are
exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applying to the
property in question as to the intended use of the property that do not apply
generally to other properties or classes of uses in the same zoning district;
and
   (3)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality. Such variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
a substantial property right-of-way possessed by other properties in the same
zoning district and in the vicinity.
8.6d No variance shall be authorized unless the Board specifically finds that
the condition or situation of the specific piece of property for which the
variance is sought is not of so typical or recurrent a nature as to make
reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation, under an
amendment of this Appendix, for such conditions or situations.
8.7 Special Exceptions:
In addition to permitting the special exceptions theretofore specified in this
Appendix, the Board shall have the authority to permit the following:
8.8 Non-conforming Uses:
The substitution of a non-conforming use for another non-conforming use, if no
structural alterations, except those required by law or ordinance are made;
provided, however, that any use so substituted shall be of the same or a more
restricted classification. The expansion of a non-conforming use through
structural alterations, provided that said expansion shall not be hazardous,
harmful, noxious, offensive or a nuisance to the surrounding neighborhood, as
determined by the Board. In all cases, the expansion shall be made to conform
to the requirements of the zone in which said non-conforming use is located at
the time of the appeal, unless a variance to said requirements is granted by
the Board.
8.9 Temporary Uses:
The temporary use of a building or premises in any district for a purpose or
use that does not conform to the regulations prescribed by this Appendix,
provided that such use be of a true temporary nature and does not involve the
erection of substantial buildings. Such permit shall be granted in the form of
a temporary and revocable permit for not more than a twelve (12) month period,
subject to such conditions as will safeguard the public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare.
8.10 Certain Industries in I-2 Districts:
In authorizing certain industries, the Board shall find due regard to the
nature and condition of all adjacent uses and structures, and the consistency
therewith of the proposed use and development. Before authorizing a use as a
special exception, the Board shall determine whether the proposed exception or
use would be hazardous, harmful, noxious, offensive or a nuisance to the
surrounding neighborhood by reason of noise, smoke, odor, vibration, dust and
dirt, cinders, noxious gases, glare and heat, fire and safety hazards, sewage
waste and pollution, transportation and traffic, aesthetic and psychological
effects. The Board may utilize and give recognition to those performance
standards which are available in model codes or ordinances, or have been
developed by planning, manufacturing, health, architectural and engineering
research organizations, and can be applied to the proposed use, to assist it in
reaching a fair and objective decision.
8.11 Requirements and Conditions:
Upon authorizing a temporary use and/or special exception, the Board may impose
such reasonable requirements and conditions - in addition to those expressly
stipulated in this Appendix for the particular temporary use and/or special
exception as the Board may deem necessary for the protection of adjacent
properties and the public interest.
8.12 Interpretation of Map:
Where the street or lot layout actually on the ground, or as recorded, differs
from the street and lot lines indicated on the zoning map, the Board after
notice to the owners of the property, and after a public hearing, shall
interpret the map in such a way as to carry out the intent and purpose of this
Appendix for the particular section or district in question.
8.13 Action of the Board:
In exercising its powers, the Board may, in conformity with the provisions of
the Illinois Revised Statutes, and of this Appendix, reverse, affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as, in the Board's opinion ought to be made, and to that end, the Board has all
the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
8.14 Judicial Review:
All final administrative decisions of the Board of Appeals shall be subject to
judicial review, pursuant to the provisions of the "Administrative Review Act,"
approved May 8, 1945, and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the
rules adopted pursuant thereto.
8.15 Refiling of Board of Zoning Appeals Cases:
The refiling of denied requests or requests for removal of stipulations
attached to approved cases by the Board of Zoning Appeals, that are not
substantially or materially different from the previously filed request, shall
not be accepted from the same or different person for the following periods of
time:
8.15a For a six (6) month period from the date of the first decision by the
Board of Zoning Appeals on the request.
8.15b For a one (1) year period from the date of subsequent decisions by the
Board of Zoning Appeals on the request.
8.16
The Planning and Redevelopment Administrator shall determine whether a request
is substantially or materially different and submittable, although the Board of
Zoning Appeals may, by majority vote, reverse a decision of the Planning
Administrator to not accept a request following a denied request on the
property or request for removal of stipulations attached to approved cases by
the Board of Zoning Appeals. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE IX. DISTRICT CHANGES AND ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS
9.1
In accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Revised Statutes, the City
Council may, from time to time, amend or change by ordinance, the number, shape
or area of districts established on the zoning map, or consider a Special Use
Permit, or the regulations set forth in this Appendix; but no such amendment or
change shall become effective unless the ordinance proposing such amendment or
change shall first be submitted to the City Planning Commission for approval,
disapproval, or suggestions, and said Planning Commission shall have been
allowed a reasonable time, for consideration and report. The Planning
Commission shall have at least fifteen (15) days notice of the time and place
of such hearing by insertion in a daily newspaper published in the City of Rock
Island, and shall also give notice delivered personally or by mail at least
five (5) days before the time fixed for such hearing to the applicant, and to
the respective owners of record of property adjoining or adjacent to the
premises in question.
9.2 Protests:
In case a written protest against a proposed change in the boundaries of a
district signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty (20) percent or more
of either the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or
directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the City
Clerk, such amendment shall not be passed or become effective except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members of the Council. In such
cases, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the protester or
protesters on the applicant for the proposed amendment, and a copy upon the
applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of such
applicant and attorney shown in the application for the proposed amendment.
9.3 Application for Zoning Change or Special Use Permit:
Any person desiring a change in zoning or a Special Use Permit for a property
shall make application and it shall be accompanied by a fee. Should the
application be withdrawn prior to publication of the legal notice thereon, such
fee will be returned upon written request of the applicant.
9.4 Failure to Notify:
The failure to notify, as provided by this Article, shall not invalidate any
ordinance, provided such failure was not intentional, and the omission of the
name of any owner or occupant or property who may, in the opinion of the City
Planning Commission, be affected by such amendment, supplement or change,
unless such omission is intentional, shall not invalidate any ordinance passed
hereunder, it being the intention of this Article to provide so far as may be
possible for notice to the persons substantially interested in the proposed
change that an ordinance is pending before the Council, proposing to make a
change in zoning.
9.5 Refiling of Denied Requests:
Upon denial by the City Council of an application to change the zoning of a
particular property and/or a Special Use Permit a second zoning request which
is not substantially or materially different from the denied request shall not
be accepted from the same or a different person, for a public hearing to be
held within six (6) months from the date of City Council denial. Subsequent
requests which are also not substantially or materially different shall not be
accepted for a public hearing to be held within one (1) year from the last date
of City Council denial. The City Planning and Redevelopment Administrator shall
determine whether a request is substantially or materially different and
submittable, although the City Council may, by majority vote, reverse a
decision of the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator to not accept a
rezoning request for public hearing.
9.6 Special Use Permits:
9.6a General Description: This procedure is established to provide a Special
Use Permit for those areas of the City that are zoned, but in which unusual
circumstances prevail, where it would be in the best interest of the safety,
health and welfare of the residents of a zoned district that a Special Use
Permit be issued rather than a change of zoning be granted.
9.7 Standards:
No Special Use shall be recommended for approval by the City Council unless
such Council shall find:
9.7a That the granting of a Special Use will not be detrimental to or endanger
the public health, safety, morals, comfort, or general welfare;
9.7b That the Special Use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already permitted, not
substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood;
9.7c That the establishment of the Special Use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
9.7d That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
9.7e That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets; and
9.7f Restrictions for the use should be consistent with the district in which
the use would normally be located except as may be modified by the City
Council.
9.7g That the Special Use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may in each instance be modified by City Council.
9.8 Conditions and Safeguards:
Prior to the granting of any Special Use, the City Council shall stipulate such
conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location, construction,
maintenance and operation of the Special Use as deemed necessary for the
protection of the public interest and to secure compliance with the standards
specified in this appendix. In all cases in which Special Uses are granted, the
City Council shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem
necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith are
being complied with.
9.9
The City Council shall not authorize a Special Use Permit unless the Council
specifically finds that the condition or situation of the special piece of
property for which the Special Use is sought is not of so typical or recurrent
a nature as to make reasonably practicable the formulation of a general
regulation, under an amendment to this Appendix, for such conditions or
stipulations.
9.10
Said Special Use Permit, when granted, shall be in full force and effect only
as long as the applicant of the property affected retains ownership of said
property. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE X. DISTRICTS
For the purpose of this Appendix, the City of Rock Island is hereby divided
into seventeen (17) classes of districts as follows:
R-1      One Unit Residential
R-2      Two Unit Residential
R-3      One to Six Unit Residential
R-4      Multi-Unit Residential
R-5      Mobile Home
B-1      Neighborhood Business
B-2      Downtown Business
B-3      Community Business
B-4      Highway Business
O-1      Small Office
O-2      Large Office
I-1      Light Industrial
I-2      Heavy Industrial
C-1      Park Conservation
C-2      Nature Conservation
U-1      University
PUD      Planned Unit Development
The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on a map
entitled "Zoning Map," City of Rock Island, Illinois, hereinafter referred to
as the "Zoning Map," which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this
Appendix. The district boundary lines on said map are intended to follow lot
lines, the center lines of streets or alleys, the center line of streets or
alleys projected, railroad right-of-way lines, or the corporate limit lines,
all as they existed at the time of enactment of this Appendix; but when a
district boundary line does not clearly coincide with lot lines, it shall be
determined by scaling.
Where a district boundary lines divides a lot, which was in single ownership
and of record at the time of enactment of this Appendix, the use authorized on
and the other district requirements applying to the less restricted portion of
such lot is more than fifty (50) feet beyond said dividing district boundary
line, such less restricted use shall be limited to the portion of the lot lying
within fifty (50) feet of said boundary line.
Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall be
determined by the Appropriate Authority according to the rules and regulations
which it may adopt.
All territory which may hereinafter be annexed to the City of Rock Island shall
be classed automatically to the R-1 One Unit Residential District within the
general land use classification shall have been changed by amendment of this
Appendix as provided hereunder.
ARTICLE XI. GENERAL PROVISIONS
11.1 Zoning Affects Every Structure and Use:
Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure or land shall hereafter
be used and no building or part thereof of structure shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, occupied, moved, altered or repaired, except in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the class of district in
which it is located.
11.2 Continued Existing Uses:
Any building, structure or use lawfully existing at the time of enactment of
this Appendix may be continued, except certain non-conforming uses as provided
in subsection
8.3 . Nothing in this Appendix shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to
a safe condition any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by the
Chief Building Official.
11.3 Non-conforming Uses:
Any lawfully established use of a building or land, at the effective date of
this appendix, or of amendments thereto, that does not conform to the use
regulations for the district in which it is located shall be deemed to be a
legal non-conforming use and may be continued, except as otherwise provided
herein.
11.3a Any legal non-conforming building or structure may be continued in use
provided there is no physical change other than necessary maintenance and
repair, except as otherwise permitted herein.
11.3b Any building for which a permit has been lawfully granted prior to the
effective date of this appendix, or of amendments thereto, may be completed in
accordance with the approved plans; provided construction is started within six
(6) months and diligently prosecuted to completion. Such building shall
thereafter be deemed a lawfully established building.
11.3c Any non-conforming building or structure which has been or may be damaged
by fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot or other act of God, may be
reconstructed and used as before if it be done within twelve (12) months of
such calamity unless damaged more than fifty percent (50%) of its fair market
value, as determined by the Board of Appeals, at the time of such damage, in
which case, reconstruction shall be in accordance with the provisions of this
Appendix except as modified for single unit uses as specified below:
11.3d Continuance of Nonconforming Single-Unit Uses, Dwellings and Lots:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this appendix, a single-unit use, a
single-unit dwelling and accessory structures or a lot on which a single-unit
dwelling is located, that was conforming prior to the effective date, hereof,
shall generally be treated as conforming for as long as the dwelling is used
for a single-unit use. Accordingly, the following rights shall be granted under
this appendix:
   (1)   Structures for a nonconforming single-unit use may be restored for a
single-unit use if destroyed or damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or by
public enemy, reconstructed or repaired provided all other requirements of this
appendix are met.
   (2)   Nonconforming single-unit dwellings or nonconforming accessory
structures to a single-unit use may be restored to the same degree of
nonconformity or less if destroyed or damaged by fire, explosion, act of God,
or by public enemy, repaired and structurally altered, provided such
construction does not increase or extend the degree of nonconformity.
Nonconforming structures shall not be reconstructed except in compliance with
the provisions of this appendix.
   (3)   A nonconforming single-unit use and a nonconforming single-unit
dwelling and accessory structures on a nonconforming lot shall be granted the
same rights as above and any other rights as if the lot were conforming.
   (4)   A nonconforming single-unit use and a nonconforming single-unit
dwelling and accessory structures shall also be granted the same rights as for
other nonconforming uses and structures.
11.3e No non-conforming building or use which has been abandoned for more than
one (1) year, or has been or may be changed to a use permitted in the district
in which it is located, shall again be devoted to a nonconforming use.
11.3f Any legal, non-conforming use shall be enclosed in all sides by a solid
wall or tight board fence not less than eight (8) feet high if said use
includes storage, repair or maintenance of vehicles, equipment or materials on
the premises and not within the building. Said wall or fence shall be
maintained to the satisfaction of the
Building Official. Any use so described that is in existence at the time of
this amendment is adopted shall comply with said fencing requirement within one
hundred eighty days (180) of the adoption of this amendment.
11.3g A non-conforming building may be enlarged or extended only if the entire
building is thereafter devoted to a conforming use, and only if the required
yards for the district in which it is located are maintained for such
enlargement, except as provided for under Variances of this Appendix.
11.3h No building partially occupied by a non-conforming use shall be altered
in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied
by such non-conforming use.
11.3i No non-conforming building in any Residential District shall be so
altered as to increase the number of dwelling units therein.
11.3j No non-conforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required usable open space, or any land beyond the boundaries of the
zoning lot as it existed at the effective date of this appendix, or to displace
any conforming use in the same building or the same parcel.
11.4 Measurements:
Separation and setback distances shall be measured from the most outwardly
protruding part of a building or structure, most commonly the facia board on a
roof edge (excluding gutters). Height measurements shall be taken from grade to
the highest point of a building or structure, most commonly the roof peak. Lot
dimensions shall be measured from parcel line to parcel line based either on a
land survey or on a plat map.
11.5 Street Frontage Required - Flag Lots:
Every lot shall have at least twenty (20) feet of frontage which provides
reasonable access onto public right-of-way dedicated to street purposes.
Setbacks for flag lots will be determined at the start of the buildable area of
the lot.
11.6 Accessory Buildings and Accessory Dwellings in Residence Districts:
11.6a Accessory structures or buildings shall not be located in any front yard
and shall not be closer to the front lot line than any principal structure or
building. When erected in a side yard the accessory building shall meet the
setback requirements of the principal structure and be located at least six (6)
feet from any other building or structure on the same lot measured to the
exterior edge of roof lintel. When erected in a rear yard it or they
cumulatively shall not occupy more than thirty (30) percent of a required rear
yard and/or it or they shall not exceed the total ground floor footage of the
primary structure except for above ground swimming pools with a depth of less
than 30 inches and shall be a distance at least three (3) feet from all lot
lines adjoining lots which are in any "R" district, and at least six (6) feet
from alley lines and from any other building or structure on the same lot.
Accessory buildings with a flat, shed, or mansard roof shall not exceed fifteen
(15) feet in height. Accessory structures with a hip, gable or gambrel roof
shall not exceed twenty (20) feet in total height at peak or crown of roof.
11.6b No accessory structure may be constructed prior to construction of the
principal building to which it is accessory. Any accessory building may be
erected as an integral part of the principal building, or if at least six (6)
feet from the principal building, may be connected to the principal building by
a breezeway or similar structure, provided all yard and court requirements of
this Appendix for the principal building are complied with, unless such
accessory building is in a rear yard, in which case the applicable provisions
of this subsection shall apply.
11.6c One accessory dwelling unit is allowed per residential zoned lot, but one
of the two dwelling units must be occupied by the owner of the lot. An
accessory dwelling unit must be located within a detached structure not
exceeding four hundred (400) square feet, be located only in the rear yard of
the property, and must meet the maximum height, setback, and separation
requirements for accessory structures. When permitted, the accessory dwelling
unit shall require one off street parking space in addition to the two already
required for the principal dwelling.
11.6d The principal dwelling and the accessory dwelling must share a single
utility service to the property, but shall have separate utility meters as well
as separate cooking and sanitary facilities. When a detached garage is
converted into an accessory dwelling unit, the ground floor may be used for the
accessory dwelling unit so long as the minimum number of required off-street
parking spaces are maintained on-site. One additional parking spot is required
for an accessory dwelling unit. Required off-street parking for the principal
structure/dwelling must be maintained.
11.7 Accessory Buildings in Nonresidential Districts:
Shall have the same height, setback and yard location requirements as accessory
buildings in Residential Districts.
11.8 Required Yard Cannot Be Reduced or Used by Another Building:
11.8a No lot, yard, court, parking area or other open space shall be so reduced
in area or dimension as to make any such area or dimension less than the
minimum requirement. No required open space provided about any building or
structure shall be included as part of any open space required for another
building or structure.
11.8b The space occupied by a required private garage or parking area shall be
considered the same as any required open space provided about a principal
building, and such space shall not be reduced or included as any part of any
required open space for another building or structure.
11.9 Permitted Obstructions in Required Yards:
The following shall not be considered to be obstructions when located in the
required yards specified:
11.9a In all yards - porch awnings and canopies, steps which are necessary for
access to a permitted building, or for access to a zoning lot from a street or
alley; chimneys projecting not more than eighteen (18) inches into the yard;
clothes lines; flag poles; arbors, trellises, closed and open-type fences, and
hedges six (6) feet or less in height, provided no such fence, the top rail of
which is between two (2) and six (6) feet above the roadway surface or no other
ground level sight obstructions, exceptions being trimmed tree trunks and
poles, shall be placed or permitted to remain on any corner or reversed corner
lot within the triangular area formed by the right-of-way lines and a line
connecting them at points twenty-five (25) feet from the intersection of the
right-of-way lines, or in the case of a rounded right-of-way corner, from the
intersection of the right-of-way lines extended; open fences exceeding six (6)
feet in height.
11.9b In front yards - one-story bay windows projecting three (3) feet or less
into the yard; and overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three (3) feet or
less into the yard.
11.9c In rear yards - open decks not enclosed, attached or detached off-street
parking spaces; open off-street parking spaces; accessory sheds, tool rooms,
similar buildings or structures for domestic or agricultural storage;
balconies; breeze-ways and open porches; one-story windows projecting three (3)
feet or less into the yard; and overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three
(3) feet or less into the yard.
11.9d In side yards - overhanging eaves and gutters projecting into the yard
for a distance not exceeding ten (10) percent of the required yard width but in
no case, exceeding eighteen (18) inches.
11.10 Conversion of Dwellings:
The conversion of any building into a dwelling, or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under this Appendix, and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in such a district, lot area per dwelling unit, dimensions of
yards and other open spaces and off-street parking. Each conversion shall be
subject to such further requirements as may be specified hereinafter with the
Article applying to such district.
11.11 Minimum Ground Floor Area for Dwellings:
The floor area of a principal dwelling shall exceed four hundred (400) square
feet and meet the standards of the International Building Code.
11.12 Essential Services:
Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by law and
other ordinances of the City, it being the intention hereof to exempt such
essential services from the application of this Appendix.
11.13 Fences and Walls:
11.13a Fences and walls located in a yard adjacent to a public street of
residential and college and university zoned property shall be no more than
four (4) feet in height and the smooth, finished, nonstructural or dressed side
of a fence, if any, shall be directed toward the neighboring properties.
11.13b Fences and walls shall not exceed six (6) feet in height, except trimmed
tree trunks and poles in any side or rear yard, and the smooth, finished,
nonstructural or dressed side of the fence, if any shall be directed toward
neighboring properties.
11.13c All fences and walls may be placed up to the property line, except in
cases of a corner lot or reversed corner lot, where they shall not be placed
within the triangular area formed by the right-of-way lines and a line
connecting them at a point twenty (20) feet from the intersection of the right-
of-way lines or in the case of a rounded corner from the intersection of the
right-of-way lines extended.
11.13d The following non-exhaustive list of materials are prohibited in the
construction of a fence or wall:
   (1)   Scrap Metal.
   (2)   Corrugated Metal.
   (3)   Sheet Metal.
   (4)   Electrical or Electrically Charged Material.
   (5)   Barbed and Razor Wire.
   (6)   Pallets.
   (7)   Oriented Strand Board (OSB).
   (8)   Used or Repurposed Materials Including Tires.
11.13e Fences up to ten (10) feet in height shall be permitted in any
industrial district.
11.13f All refuse and/or discard areas for all commercial, industrial and
multi-unit residential uses shall be screened on a minimum of three (3) sides
by a six-foot solid or tight board fence. All refuse and/or discard areas for
all commercial and industrial uses which do not conform to all applicable
provisions of this section shall be made to conform within three (3) years from
the effective date of this Appendix. The appropriate official, or designee,
shall make the determination if it is an unreasonable hardship to require
existing refuse and/or discard to be screened on a case-by-case basis.
11.13g Snow fencing shall only be used on a temporary basis by public
jurisdictions for public safety purposes or as a permitted use for temporary
festival/event enclosure purposes.
11.13h Fencing shall not be allowed in floodways.
11.13i Swimming pool fencing requirements are outlined in the City Building
Code.
11.13j Barbed wire fences shall be permitted only in Industrial districts and
the bottom strand shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet above grade.
11.14 Home Occupation, Major:
Major home occupations are those home occupations where either non-resident
customers and/or employees come to the property for the purpose of furthering
the business enterprise of the home occupation, and where the occupation:
11.14a Shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling unit and carried on by the
inhabitants thereof and their non-inhabitant employees or customers.
11.14b Shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
dwelling purposes, and the appearance of the structure shall not be altered or
the occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner that would cause
the premises to differ from its residential character either by the use of
colors, materials, construction, lighting, signs, or the emission of sounds or
vibrations that carry beyond the premises.
11.14c Shall have no more than two hundred (200) square feet of floor area used
for the home occupation.
11.14d Shall have no signs present on the property except one sign, not
exceeding fifteen (15) square feet.
11.14e Shall not be conducted on the premises the business of selling stocks of
merchandise, supplies or products, provided that incidental retail sales may be
made in connection with other permitted home occupations, for example, a
single-chair beauty parlor would be allowed to sell combs, hair spray, and
other miscellaneous items to customers. However, a dressmaker would be required
to do only custom work for specific clients and would not be allowed to develop
stocks of dresses for sale to the general public on-site.
11.14f Shall have no storage or display of goods visible from outside the
structure.
11.14g Shall have no highly explosive or combustible material used or stored on
the premises unless approved by the fire inspector. No activity shall be
allowed that would interfere with radio or television reception in the area,
nor shall there be any offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, or
glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
11.14h Shall have adequate off-street parking spaces available to compensate
for additional parking needs generated.
11.14i Deliveries from commercial suppliers may be made more than once a week,
and the deliveries shall not be made from semi-tractor trailer trucks.
11.14j Shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
   (1)   Single-chair beauty parlors and barbershops;
   (2)   Photo developing and printing;
   (3)   Organized classes with up to six (6) students at a time;
   (4)   Television and other electric or electronic repair, excluding major
appliances such as refrigerators or storage;
   (5)   Upholstering;
   (6)   Dressmaking and millinery; and
   (7)   Woodworking excluding cabinet making.
11.14k Major home occupations require authorization by the Board of Zoning
Appeals in all residential zoning districts.
11.15 Home Occupation, Minor: Minor home occupations are those where neither
non-resident customers nor non-resident employees come to the property for
purposes of furthering the business enterprise of the home occupation, and
where the occupation:
11.15a Shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on only by the
inhabitants thereof and no other.
11.15b Shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
dwelling purposes, and the appearance of the structure shall not be altered or
the occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner that would cause
the premises to differ from its residential character either by the use of
colors, materials, construction, lighting, signs, or other emission of sounds
or vibrations that carry beyond the premises.
11.15c Shall have no more than two hundred (200) square feet of floor area used
for the home occupation.
11.15d Shall be no advertising, display, or other indications of a home
occupation on the premises.
11.15e Shall not be conducted on the premises the business of selling stocks of
merchandise, supplies or products, provided that orders previously made by
telephone or at a sales party may be filled on the premises. That is, direct
sales of products off display shelves, racks or from inventory is not allowed,
but a person may pick up an order placed earlier as described above.
11.15f Shall have no storage or display of goods visible from outside the
structure.
11.15g Shall have no highly explosive or combustible material used or stored on
the premises unless approved by the fire inspector. No activity shall be
allowed that would interfere with radio or television reception in the area,
nor shall there be any offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or
glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
11.15h Shall not create greater vehicle or pedestrian traffic than normal for
the district in which it is located, including commercial and general delivery
services. No more than one home occupation related vehicle is allowed and must
be stored on-site. Trailers, flatbed or enclosed, shall not be stored on-site.
No vehicle or trailer of any kind related to the home occupation shall be
stored in public right-of-way.
11.15i Shall have no use of material or equipment not recognized as being part
of the normal practices of owning and maintaining a residence allowed. This
shall include but not be limited to boom lifts, scissor lifts, forklifts,
single person lifts, telehandlers, bulldozers, wheel tractor-scrapers, skid
steer loaders, backhoe loaders, excavators, feller bunchers, harvesters,
trenchers, articulated haulers, off-highway trucks, asphalt pavers, cold
planers, motor graders, compactors, drum rollers, compact track and multi-
terrain loaders, skidders, forwarders, knuckleboom loaders, towable light
towers, carry deck cranes, and any other similar equipment.
11.15j Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, garage,
basement, yard or other similar sales shall not be allowed more than twice a
year, and each sale shall not last more than seventy-two (72) consecutive
hours, and only goods which have been generated from within the household and
not purchased elsewhere for resale. Sales shall be conducted on the owner's
property except that multiple family sales are permitted if they are held on
the property of one of the participants and any such sale shall be considered
to be a sale for all participants.
11.15k Shall have no deliveries from commercial suppliers made more than once a
week, and the deliveries shall not be made from semi-tractor trailer trucks.
11.15l Shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
   (1)   Artists and sculptors;
   (2)   Authors, desktop publishers and composers;
   (3)   Home crafts for sale off-site;
   (4)   Office facility of clergy;
   (5)   Office facility of a salesman, sales representative or manufacturer's
representative provided that no transactions are made in person on the
premises;
   (6)   Address of convenience used solely for receiving and making telephone
calls including computer usage, mail, keeping business records in connection
with a profession or occupation;
   (7)   Individual tutoring;
   (8)   Preserving and home cooking for sale off-site;
   (9)   Individual instrument and vocal instruction provided that no
instrument may be amplified;
   (10)   Telephone solicitation work;
   (11)   Self-employed contractors including carpenters, painters,
electricians, plumbers, landscapers, and other similar tradespeople primarily
working alone with only periodic assistance from subcontractors or assistants
who do not come to the residence.
   (12)   Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent by the appropriate
authority.
11.15m Minor home occupations are allowed in all residential zoning districts
and do not require authorization by the Board of Zoning Appeals or a Special
Use Permit.
11.16 Short-Term Rentals:
11.16a This section shall apply to all dwellings and rooms within residential
and mixed-use properties that may be rented, or leased, for fewer than thirty
(30) days and shall not apply to hotels, motels, or similar types of lodging.
This section shall also apply to all short-term rentals regardless of whether
they utilize a digital platform for booking, promotions, or similar purposes.
   (1)   Short term rentals shall be permitted uses in all residential and
business zoning districts. They shall be a special use in all other zoning
districts.
   (2)   Short term rentals in residential districts must make available a
minimum of one off-street parking spot for use by the occupant of each short-
term rental unit at the property.
   (3)   In residential zoning districts, the operator shall reside within the
City of Rock Island or within ten (10) miles of its periphery.
   (4)   Short-term rentals shall not have signage exceeding one (1) square
foot in area.
11.16b Registration:
   (1)   All short-term rentals require a license. This license shall be issued
by the Chief Building Official or their designee following an inspection of the
subject property for basic health and safety requirements. These requirements
shall be derived from the Property Maintenance Code and developed by the Chief
Building Official to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the occupants.
   (2)   There shall be a licensing fee paid by the applicant at the time of
their initial inspection. The license shall be renewed annually on March 1
contingent upon an annual reinspection being completed within the preceding
thirty (30) days.
   (3)   The license may be revoked at any time if the Chief Building Official
or their designee determines that the operator is in violation of the terms of
the license.
   (4)   The Chief Building Official shall maintain a record of all licenses
granted for short-term rentals. These records shall include contact information
for all operators.
   (5)   The annual license fee for operating a short-term rental shall be one-
hundred dollars ($100).
11.17 Off-Street Parking and Loading:
11.17a Purpose: The purpose of this section of the Zoning Ordinance is to
alleviate or prevent congestion of the public streets and promote the safety
and welfare of the public by establishing minimum requirements for the off-
street parking and loading and unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with
the use of the property.
11.17b General Provisions:
   (1)   Procedure - An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged
building, structure or use shall include a plot site plan, drawn to scale and
fully dimensioned showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided in
compliance with the requirements of this appendix.
   (2)   In all districts, in connection with every building or part thereof
hereafter erected, having a gross floor area of ten thousand (10,000) square
feet or more, which is to be occupied by uses requiring the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of materials and merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained on the same premises with such building at least one (1) off-
street loading space accessible from any alley, easement of access, or when
there is no such alley or easement of access from a street, plus one (1)
additional such loading space for each two thousand (2,000) square feet or
major fraction thereof of gross floor area so used in excess of twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet. such space may occupy all or any part of any required
rear yard or upon authorization from the appropriate board of review, any part
of any other yard or court space.
   (3)   In all districts, except "B-2" (which has no off-street parking
requirements within that zoning district) an off-street parking area in the
open or in a garage, shall be provided in connection with the uses set forth
herein after and to the extent indicated therewith, in addition to the above
required loading and unloading spaces. Such areas in the case of "R" districts
and for dwellings in other districts, shall be on the premises intended to be
served; and in the case of other districts, and in connection with uses other
than property within one hundred feet (100') of any part of said premises and
in the same or less restricted district.
   (4)   Off street parking facilities accessory to residential use and
developed in any residential district in accordance with the requirements of
this section shall be used solely for the parking of passenger vehicles owned
and occupied. Parking of large trucks with an allowable gross vehicle weight of
ten thousand (10,000) pounds or more on any residentially zoned or used lot is
prohibited, except for the purpose of making a delivery, and then only for such
length of time as it takes to complete delivery.
11.17c Units of Measure:
   (1)   Floor area as employed in this parking and loading section in the case
of office, merchandising or service types of use shall mean the gross floor
area of a building or structure used or intended to be used for service to the
public as customers, patrons, clients, patients, or tenants, including areas
occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of merchandise.
Floor area for the purposes of this section shall not include any area used for
storage accessory to the principal use, incidental repairs, processing or
packaging of merchandise, show windows, incidental management offices,
restrooms, utilities and dressing/fitting rooms.
   (2)   Parking spaces shall not be less than eight and one-half feet (8-1/2')
wide and nineteen feet (19') long or not less than one hundred sixty (160)
square feet in area exclusive of access drives or aisles.
   (3)   Loading spaces shall not be less than ten feet (10') wide, fifty feet
(50') in length and fourteen feet (14') in height, exclusive of access and
turning areas.
11.17d Schedule: Parking requirements shall be as follows, reference to maximum
number of patrons shall be based on the figure provided by fire code for a
given facility. A parking maximum of no more than twenty percent (20%) over the
minimum for any given facility shall also apply.
   (1)   Athletic Field - twenty (20) parking spaces per acre, plus one (1)
space for every five (5) seats in bleachers or other types of fixed seating
areas.
   (2)   Auditorium/Theater - one (1) parking space for every four (4) seats or
one parking space for every one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
   (3)   Auto Repair - three (3) per bay.
   (4)   Auto Gas and Sales - two (2) parking spaces per pump, plus two per
service bay.
   (5)   Banks and Business Offices - four (4) parking spaces per one thousand
(1,000) square feet, plus drive through requirements if applicable.
   (6)   Barber/Beauty Shop Styling and Tanning Salons - two (2) parking spaces
per personal grooming station.
   (7)   Bowling Alleys - six (6) parking spaces per alley plus bar and
restaurant requirements, if applicable.
   (8)   Car Wash - six (6) parking spaces per bay.
   (9)   Care Homes - one (1) parking space for every two (2) residents.
   (10)   Religious Institution - one (1) parking space for every four (4)
sanctuary main auditorium seats.
   (11)   Community Center - one (1) parking space for every three (3) maximum
patrons.
   (12)   Day Care Centers - one (1) for every ten (10) children served plus
one (1) per institutional vehicle.
   (13)   Drive Through Facility - six (6) stacking spaces for each drive
through station or automatic teller machine, plus appropriate parking for
principal use.
   (14)   Dry Cleaning - four (4) for patrons.
   (15)   Durable Goods Sales (appliances, furniture, etc.) - one (1) parking
space per five hundred (500) square feet.
   (16)   Elderly Housing and Residential Facility for people with a disability
- three (3) parking spaces for every four (4) units.
   (17)   Fraternities, Sororities and Boarding Houses - one (1) parking space
per lodging resident.
   (18)   Funeral Home - one (1) parking space per fifty (50) square feet of
public access area, plus one (1) per business vehicle.
   (19)   Group Home/Halfway House/Boarding House - one (1) parking space per
bedroom.
   (20)   Health Recreation and Physical Training Facility - five (5) parking
spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet, plus additional parking for
outdoor accessory use if applicable.
   (21)   Hospital - one (1) parking space per overnight bed plus six (6) per
one thousand (1,000) square feet devoted to outpatient service.
   (22)   Laundromats - one (1) parking space for every two (2) washers.
   (23)   Manufacturing Plants and Testing Labs - one (1) per business vehicle
plus four (4) per one thousand (1,000) square feet devoted to office space.
   (24)   Medical, Dental or Veterinary Office or Clinic - two (2) parking
spaces per treatment room.
   (25)   Motel, Hotel or Apartment Hotel - one (1) parking space per unit,
plus banquet, restaurant and/or bar requirements if applicable.
   (26)   Mobile Home Park - one (1) parking space and one (1) for every four
(4) units.
   (27)   Nursing Home - one (1) parking space per overnight bed.
   (28)   Park, Neighborhood - five (5) parking spaces per first two (2) acres,
plus one (1) for each additional acre.
   (29)   Park, Community - five (5) parking spaces per acre, plus requirements
for major facilities as noted elsewhere in this list if applicable.
   (30)   Residences - two (2) parking spaces per unit and for six-plexes or
greater; guest parking equal to ten percent (10%) of the total dwelling units.
   (31)   Restaurants, Taverns, or Night Clubs - one (1) parking space for
every seventy five (75) square feet of public floor area or for each two (2)
persons allowed by fire code, whichever is greater, plus drive through
requirements if applicable.
   (32)   Retail, Freestanding and Shopping Centers - two and one-half (2.5)
parking spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet gross floor area.
   (33)   Schools, Elementary and Junior High - one (1) per classroom plus one
(1) per institutional vehicle.
   (34)   Schools, High School - one (1) for every four (4) students plus one
(1) per institutional vehicle.
   (35)   Sports Stadium, Outdoor - one (1) parking space for every three (3)
maximum patrons, plus parking for buses.
   (36)   Swimming Pool - one (1) parking space for every three (3) maximum
patrons.
   (37)   Wholesale and Warehouse - two (2) parking spaces per one thousand
(1,000) square feet for first ten thousand (10,000) square feet, plus one (1)
per two thousand (2,000) square feet for the remaining space with office area
parking calculated separately at four (4) per one thousand (1,000) square feet.
11.17e Development Standards:
   (1)   Off street accessory parking areas shall be of usable shape and shall
be improved in accordance with requirements of the City Engineer with asphalt,
cement concrete, Portland cement concrete, or alternate materials acceptable to
the City Engineer, which may include some pervious materials. All off street
parking areas must be graded and drained as to dispose of all surface water
accumulation within the area. Any lighting used to illuminate such parking
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in
any R district and in accordance with illumination standards further described
in this appendix.
   (2)   Parking lot layout shall be designed so the maneuvering requirements
are accomplished without backing into adjacent public streets. Stack parking
shall not be allowed to meet parking requirements for uses other than one and
two unit uses.
   (3)   All motor vehicles in residential zoning districts parked in a front
or side yard must be parked on an improved surface in accordance with the above
written requirements of the City. Motor vehicles parked in a rear yard that is
located adjacent to an unimproved gravel public alley in a one- or two-unit
residential district may be parked on a gravel surface with a proper base
acceptable and approved by the City Engineer. Such a space shall not exceed the
minimum number of parking spaces required for the number of dwelling units.
Outside storage of inoperable or unlicensed vehicles and vehicle parts is
prohibited in residential zoning districts.
   (4)   All off street parking areas must be designed so as to facilitate as
much on-site storm water retention and/or detention as possible and meet all
the standards of the City's Storm Water Ordinance.
11.17f Exceptions:
   (1)   Vehicle and equipment parking/storage areas in industrial zoning
districts may be improved with a gravel surface with a proper base acceptable
and approved by the City Engineer. The Board of Appeals may, on appeal,
authorize a modification, reduction or waiver of the foregoing requirements.
Such modification, reduction or waiver shall be justified by the particular
nature of the use, or other exception, situation or condition.
11.17g Parking, Storage or Use of Recreational Vehicle:
   (1)   No recreational vehicle, as defined, shall be parked or stored on any
lot in a residential district except in a required side or rear yard providing
all yard setbacks are met by the recreation vehicle and the vehicle is parked
on a pad constructed of asphalt, cement concrete, Portland cement concrete, or
alternate equivalent materials acceptable to the City Engineer, which may
include some pervious materials acceptable to the City Engineer. However, such
equipment may be parked on a temporary basis in a front yard on a pad also
constructed of the same identical materials for a period of time not to exceed
24 hours during loading and unloading no more than twice in any consecutive
period of seven (7) days. At least thirty (30) hours must separate each
occurrence. No such recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any
location not approved for such use.
   (2)   No recreational vehicle intended for portable temporary housing shall
be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on
a residential lot, or in any other location not approved for such use, provided
however, that such equipment may be used for the housing of guests of occupants
of the principal resident if (a) occupancy shall not exceed fourteen (14)
consecutive days; and (b) no charge is made for such occupancy.
   (3)   No recreational vehicle shall be stored out of doors on residential
premises unless it is in condition for safe and effective performance of the
function for which it is intended. In no case shall any such recreational
vehicle be so stored for a period of more than six (6) months if not in
condition for safe and efficient performance of the function for which it is
intended.
11.17h Intermodal Containers: An industrial, standardized reusable vessel that
is specifically designed for the packing, shipping, movement, or transportation
of freight, articles, goods, or commodities and that is designed for mounting
on or movement by a rail car or truck trailer. It is usually constructed of
steel featuring double doors at one end. Generally, they have corner castings
used for hoisting, stacking, and securing while in transit. Sizes vary, but the
most common dimensions are eight feet wide, twenty or forty feet long, and
eight and a half feet tall. These are also known as cargo or freight
containers, high-cubes, and Conex boxes.
   Regulations for Intermodal Containers:
   (1)   Intermodal Containers shall not be permitted in any residential and
conservation districts.
   (2)   In office and business districts intermodal containers shall be
permitted in rear yards provided that they are placed upon a concrete surface
and meet the setback and separation requirements for accessory buildings.
   (3)   In industrial districts, intermodal containers shall be permitted
provided that they are placed upon a concrete surface and meet the setback and
separation requirements for principal buildings.
   (4)   Intermodal containers shall not be stacked one atop another in any
zoning district.
   (5)   Intermodal containers may be kept temporarily at construction sites in
any zoning district where an active set of permits have been issued.
Temporarily shall mean for the length of time the permits are active.
   (6)   Intermodal containers may be adapted or converted into permanent
structures, but must be adapted to meet all building and fire code regulations
including a permanent foundation. Once converted, they shall no longer be
considered intermodal containers for the purposes of the zoning code.
11.17i Portable Storage and Moving Containers: A non-industrial reusable vessel
that is specifically designed to serve as temporary storage or containment for
personal possessions. It is distinct from an intermodal container in that it is
usually smaller in size, not intended for the transportation of commercial
goods, and not generally intended for mounting on or movement by a rail car or
truck trailer. A typical instance where these are used is when a moving company
rents one to a household moving from one residence to another.
   Regulations for Portable Storage and Moving Container:
   (1)   There shall be no more than one portable storage and moving container
on any residentially zoned property in a single year. Non-residentially zoned
properties may have up to three containers at any one time on them in a single
year.
   (2)   Moving containers shall not remain on a property for more than thirty
days total in a year.
   (3)   Moving containers shall be placed on a concrete or asphalt surface.
   (4)   Moving containers shall maintain a six-foot separation distance from
all buildings and property lines.
   (5)   Moving containers shall not exceed sixteen feet in length, eight feet
in width, and eight feet in height.
   (6)   Moving containers shall not be stacked one atop another in any zoning
district
11.18 Pending Applications For Building Permits:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the overall layout, plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development, building, structure or
part thereof, for which official approvals and required building permits have
been granted before the enactment of this Appendix as amended, the construction
of which, conforming with such plans shall have been started prior to the
effective date of this Appendix, as amended, and completion thereof carried on
in a normal manner within the subsequent six (6) month period, and not
discontinued until completion, except for reasons beyond the builder's control.
11.19 Uses Authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
Any use or structure as regulated by the Board of Zoning Appeals in the various
districts shall be accumulative in nature beginning with the most restrictive
district.
11.20 Principal Building:
Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on a
lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one principal
building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this Appendix.
11.21 Adult Regulated Uses:
11.21a The Supreme Court of the State of Illinois has judicially confirmed that
the purpose of these amendments as hereinafter stated serves a valid government
interest. In the development and execution of this Appendix, it is recognized
that there are some uses which because of their very nature, are recognized as
having serious objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when
several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances, thereby having a
deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas, particularly adjacent and nearby
residential and commercial areas where nurseries, schools, nursing homes,
churches and similar uses are located. Proper and realistic zoning and special
regulations of these uses are necessary to ensure that these adverse effects
will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding
neighborhood or discouraging normal development of undeveloped areas. These
special regulations are itemized in this section. A primary control or
regulation is for the purpose of preventing a concentration of these uses in
any one area. To prevent concentration of such uses from having an adverse
effect upon the adjacent and nearby residential and commercial areas above
referred to, such uses are hereby established as permitted uses in all
industrially zoned areas of I-1 and I-2. To prevent such uses from having an
adverse effect upon nearby or residential and commercial areas, they are
prohibited within one thousand (1,000) feet of the following specified uses or
zones:
   (1)   Residential, commercial and or conservation zone.
   (2)   Public or private school or licensed day care center.
   (3)   Church or religious center.
   (4)   Public park or a City designated pedestrian/bike path.
11.21b To prevent such uses from having an adverse effect upon the adjacent
areas in an I-1 and/or I-2 district, not more than two (2) such uses shall be
established within one thousand (1000) feet of each other, within said I-1 and/
or I-2 district. Uses subject to these controls hereafter referred to as "Adult
Regulated Uses" are as follows: Adult Bookstore, Adult Motion Picture Theater,
Adult Mini-Motion Picture Theater; Adult Modeling and Entertainment Facility.
11.22 Solar Energy Systems:
11.22a Solar Energy Systems, as defined by this appendix, are permitted in all
zoning districts.
11.22b This appendix applies to Solar Energy Systems to be installed and
constructed after the effective date of the appendix, and all applications for
Solar Energy Systems on existing structures and property. Solar Energy Systems
constructed prior to the effective date of this appendix shall not be required
to meet this appendix. Any upgrades, modifications, or changes that materially
alter the size or placement of an existing Solar Energy System shall comply
with the provisions of this appendix.
11.22c Installation of solar energy systems on locally designated landmarks or
within locally designated historic districts, as established by the Rock Island
Preservation Ordinance, shall require the approval of the Historic Preservation
Commission and the issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness.
11.22d Solar Energy Systems shall comply with the International Fire Code and
National Electric Code as adopted by the City.
11.22e Ground Mounted Systems shall not be permitted in a front yard in
residential zoning districts unless the subject property is one (1) acre in
size or larger.
11.22f Ground Mounted or Freestanding Solar Energy Systems shall not exceed six
feet (6') at the highest point of the System in residential zoning districts
unless the subject property is one (1) acre in size or larger.
11.22g For purposes of determining compliance with building coverage standards
of the applicable zoning district, the total horizontal projection area of all
ground-mounted and freestanding solar collectors including solar photovoltaic
cells, panels, arrays and inverters shall be considered pervious coverage so
long as pervious conditions are maintained underneath the solar photovoltaic
cells, panels and arrays.
11.22h Whenever possible, Ground-mounted Systems shall have ground cover
beneath them that consists of native plants which help to facilitate absorption
of rain water into the soil. Impermeable surfaces, gravel, turf grass, and
similar coverings are discouraged. Regardless of ground cover, access to the
System for inspection and maintenance shall be maintained.
11.23 Design of Newly Developed or Redeveloped Business and Office Zoned
Properties:
11.23a Building Orientation: Building frontages shall face the primary street
with at least one principal entrance facing the primary street.
11.23b Pedestrian Amenities: Buildings shall have clear pedestrian pathways
that connect to a sidewalk to facilitate pedestrian access and circulation.
Pedestrian pathways through parking areas shall be adequately striped or
demarcated to facilitate safe pedestrian travel.
11.23c Lighting: Lighting shall adhere to all Illumination Standards.
11.23d Bicycle Parking: One (1) bicycle parking space with bicycle rack or
similar infrastructure shall be provided for every one thousand (1,000) square
feet of interior floor area. A minimum of two (2) and a maximum of ten (10)
bicycle parking spaces shall be required, but more is acceptable. Existing
public bicycle parking within five hundred feet (500') of the subject parcel
may be used to count toward the minimum requirement. Private bicycle parking
may be installed within five hundred feet (500') of the subject parcel and
within the public right-of-way to count toward the minimum requirement, but
only with the approval of the Public Works Director and on the condition that
said bicycle parking be available for public use.
11.23e Blank Walls: Walls that do not have windows or doors and are exposed to
public view shall be designed with architectural details that provide vertical
relief, such as a terrace, pilaster or pier, as well as a horizontal band, such
as a middle trim, a reveal band, cornice, or other acceptable design feature.
11.23f Window Area: At least forty percent (40%) of the first-floor façade
facing a public street or public sidewalk shall have windows and doors of clear
or lightly tinted glass (not mirror, reflective, or dark tinted glass) that
allow views into and out of the building at eye level.
11.23g Outdoor storage: Trash containers (dumpster), mechanical equipment, and
all outdoor storage shall be located in a rear yard and shall be screened from
view on a minimum of three (3) sides with a six (6) foot tall solid fence or
wall in a style that reflects the primary building.
11.23h Parking: Parking lots shall not interrupt pedestrian routes or
negatively impact adjacent or neighboring residential districts. New parking
areas of more than five (5) spaces shall meet all landscaping requirements. In
B-1 and O-1 districts specifically, the majority of parking shall be located
along the side or rear of buildings if non-residential properties within one
hundred and fifty feet (150') of the subject property's frontage(s) have a
majority of their parking along the side or rear of buildings. When such an
urban form exists, no more than one row of teaser parking along the primary
street shall be allowed on the subject property. The one hundred and fifty feet
(150') from the frontage shall be measured going in all directions.
11.23i Context: New or remodeled buildings shall be designed to reflect and
respect the existing character of the neighborhood and be compatible in size
and mass with nearby residential uses.
11.23j Foundation Planting: Each principal building shall have a landscaped
area located along the foundation of the building with a minimum width of five
(5) feet. Foundation plantings shall not block windows and, if adjoining a
sidewalk, shall be maintained at no taller than 3 feet. If a planting area is
determined by the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator to be impractical
based on a building design, location, operations, setbacks, or arrangement of
teaser parking along a primary street, planter boxes or other containers may be
substituted. When a building is built with a setback less than five feet (5')
this requirement shall not be enforced.
11.24 Cannabis Businesses:
All cannabis businesses are regulated by the Recreational Cannabis Ordinance in
addition to those requirements contained within this appendix.
11.25 Unrelated Group Uses:
11.25a Purpose: Unrelated group uses may be approved by the Planning and
Redevelopment Administrator or their designee through the following process.
The Zoning Administrator shall not vary any of the applicable conditions.
11.25b Procedure: Upon receiving an application for an unrelated group use, the
Planning and Redevelopment Administrator or their designee shall process the
application to determine its conformity with the applicable standards. If the
application does conform, the permit shall be granted. If the land and its
structure do not meet the standards, the permit shall be denied.
   (1)   Initiation and Application: Any person owning or having interest in
the subject property may file an application to use such land for an unrelated
group use. Such application shall be submitted with the application fee in the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per dwelling unit and such proof that
the land and the structure comply with the requirements set forth for the
permit.
   (2)   Term of Approval:
      a.   In any case were a permitted unrelated group use has not been
established within six (6) months after the granting thereof, then without
further action by the City, the use approval shall be null and void;
      b.   If an unrelated group use, including an existing use, has been
discontinued for a period of one year or more, it shall not be re-established
without obtaining new approval from the City.
11.25c Revocation: The Planning and Redevelopment Administrator may revoke a
use approval upon giving the owner and any interested persons who applied for
the use at least ten (10) days written notice of the grounds for revocation and
the opportunity for a public hearing before the City Council at which time they
may present evidence bearing upon the question and cross examine witnesses. The
grounds for which a use permit may be revoked are:
   (1)   The owner or interested persons applying for the use has knowingly
furnished false or misleading information or withheld relevant information on
any application for any use knowingly suffered or caused another to furnish or
withhold such information on their behalf.
   (2)   The owner, their agent, employee, officer, tenant, licensee or
occupant has violated any of the provisions of this Article of the standards
required to obtain the use with administrative approval, or that the property
no longer complies with the standards necessary to obtain a use with
administrative approval; provided however, that the Planning and Redevelopment
Administrator shall give at least ten (10) days prior written notice to the
owner of the alleged violation or manner in which the property no longer
complies with the standards, with the opportunity to correct the problem during
said time provided further, however, that violations of this appendix shall not
be cause for revocation.
   (3)   The property has become a nuisance as that term is defined in this
appendix. The property owner shall be responsible for the acts of their agents,
employees, officers, tenants, licensees, and occupants.
11.25d Nuisance: A property shall be considered a nuisance when any of the
following shall occur:
   (1)   The owner, their agents, employees, officers, tenants, licensees or
occupants have been convicted of three (3) or more violations of this appendix
for occurrences in any twelve-month period or occurring on said property.
   (2)   The owner has received three (3) or more notices for the property from
the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator during any twelve-month period
which have not resulted in the revocation of the use granted with
administrative approval due to the fact that the owner has corrected the
alleged violation.
11.25e Standards:
   (1)   No unrelated group use shall be approved by the Planning and
Redevelopment Administrator unless they find all of the following standards are
met:
      a.   The number of residents complies with requirements of this appendix.
      b.   The parking requirements of two off-street parking spaces per
dwelling unit have been met.
   (2)   The proposed unrelated group use is not within three hundred (300)
feet of another existing unrelated group use. Measurements shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
property line of the proposed use to the property line of the existing use.
   (3)   In order to ensure that the structure and rooms therein are used as
originally designed and intended, the proposed use will not require or include
structural alterations as that term is defined in the Uniform Housing Code or
other building code adopted by the City.
   (4)   The structure meets the requirements of the City's housing, building,
and fire codes as set forth in the Code of the City of Rock Island or the codes
adopted by reference therein.
11.25f Re-Inspection Requirements: All unrelated group uses are required to be
inspected to determine housing, building, and fire code compliance every two
(2) years that such use is maintained. The first reinspection will take place
two (2) years after receiving approval. An inspection fee of sixty dollars
($60.00) per dwelling unit shall be paid by the owner thereof.
11.25g Zoning Action Fee Schedule:
Item Fee
Item                                                  Fee
Special Use Permit                                    $100
Rezoning for Less Than One Acre                       $200
Rezoning for One Acre or More                         $300
Variance for One- and Two-Unit Residential Properties $125
Variance for All Other Properties Less Than One Acre  $150
Variance for All Other Properties One Acre or More    $175
Minor Subdivision                                     $50
Major Subdivision of Properties                       $100
Less Than One Acre   
Major Subdivision of Properties                       $150
One Acre or More
 
11.26 Automobile Repair Businesses:
11.26a: This section shall apply to all major and minor automobile repair
businesses as defined herein.
11.26b Regulations:
   (1)   Any repair or service operations shall be performed within a fully
enclosed building. Bay doors are permitted to be open during hours of
operation.
   (2)   No partially dismantled, inoperable, or unregistered vehicle shall be
stored on-site. This standard does not apply to inoperable vehicles awaiting
major repair work at a properly zoned establishment so long as said vehicles
are not stored outdoors for more than thirty (30) days.
   (3)   Outside storage besides vehicles including but not limited to vehicle
parts, tires, or similar materials is prohibited.
   (4)   No vehicles may be stored and no repair work may be conducted in the
public right-of-way. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020; Ord. 055-2021, 9-13-2021; Ord.
12-2022, 3-28-2022; Ord. 38-2024, 6-10-2024)
ARTICLE XII. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS, EXCEPTIONS, AND MODIFICATIONS
The requirements and regulations specified herein before this Appendix shall be
subject to the additional requirements, exceptions, modifications and
interpretations in the following:
12.1 Height Limits:
Height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this Appendix shall not apply.
12.1a To barns, silos or other farm buildings, provided these are not less than
fifty (50) feet from every lot line, to church spires, belfries, cupolas and
domes, monuments, water towers, fire and hose towers, masts, cellular
communication towers and aerials; to parapet walls extending not more than four
(4) feet above the limiting height of the building. However, if in the opinion
of the Chief Building Official, such structures would adversely affect
adjoining or adjacent properties, such greater height shall not be authorized
except by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
12.1b To places of public assembly such as churches, schools and other
permitted public and semi-public buildings not to exceed six (6) stories or
seventy-five (75) feet, provided that for each foot by which the height of such
building exceeds the maximum height otherwise permitted in the district, its
side and rear yards shall be increased in width or depth by an additional foot
over the side and rear yards required for the highest building otherwise
permitted in the district.
12.1c To bulkheads, conveyors, derricks, elevators, penthouses, water tanks,
monitors and scenery lofts; to monuments, fire towers, hose towers, cooling
towers, grain elevators, gas holders or other structures, where the
manufacturing process requires a greater height than the highest building
otherwise permitted in the district.
12.1d To hospitals, provided that for each foot by which the height of such
building exceeds the maximum height otherwise permitted in the district, its
side and rear yards shall be increased in width and depth by an additional one-
half (1/2) foot over the side and rear yards required for the highest building
otherwise permitted in the district.
12.2 Existing Lots of Record:
In any district where dwellings are permitted, a one-unit detached dwelling may
be constructed on any lot of official record at the time of enactment of this
Appendix, provided that proposed yard spaces satisfy requirements stipulated
for the district in which said lot is located, or requirements as may be
modified by the appropriate authority.
12.3 Lots Unserved by Sewer and Water:
In any district where neither public water supply nor public sanitary sewer is
accessible, the otherwise specified lot area and width requirement shall be
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and one hundred (100) feet; respectively,
provided, however, that where a public water supply system is accessible and
will be installed, these requirements shall be ten thousand (10,000) square
feet and seventy-five (75) feet respectively, provided further that the Health
Officer has certified that the said areas will be large enough to satisfy all
applicable requirements concerning water supply and the disposal of sanitary
wastes.
12.4 Front Yard Exceptions and Modifications:
12.4a Front Yard Requirements Do Not Apply: To bay windows or balconies
occupying, in the aggregate, not more than one-third (1/3) of the front wall,
provided that these projections come entirely within planes drawn from either
main corner of the front wall, making the interior angle of twenty-two and one-
half (22-1/2) degrees in the horizontal planes with the front wall; to
chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, uncovered porches or
similar features not over three (3) feet high above the average finished grade
and distant five (5) feet from every lot line.
12.4b Interior Lots: In any district where the average depth of two (2) or more
existing front yards on lots within one hundred fifty (150) feet in either
direction of the lot in question and within the same block front less than the
average depth of said existing front yards or the average depth on the two (2)
lots immediately adjoining, provided, however, that the depth of a front yard
in any "R" district shall be at least ten (10) feet and need not exceed thirty
(30) feet.
12.4c Corner Lots: In any district where the average depth of two (2) or more
existing front yards on lots within one hundred and fifty (150) feet of the lot
in question and within the same front is less than the least front yard
described, the depth of the front yard on such lot shall not be less than the
average depth of said existing front yards or depth of the front yard on the
lot immediately adjoining; provided, however, that the depth of a front yard on
a lot in any "R" district shall be at least ten (10) feet and need not exceed
thirty (30) feet, except as provided in the General Provisions regarding
traffic visibility across corner lots.
12.5 Side Yard Exceptions and Modifications:
12.5a Along any district boundary line, an abutting side yard on a lot in the
less restricted district shall have at least width equal to that required in
the more restricted district; and in a "B-2" or "I" district, on a lot abutting
a lot in any "R" district, such side yard for a building higher than the
limiting height in such "R" district shall be increased by three (3) feet for
each story over such limiting height.
12.5b Side Yards Shall Be Increased: In width by two (2) inches for each foot
by which the length of the side wall of the building, adjacent to the side
yard, exceeds forty (40) feet in any "R-1" or "R-2" district, or fifty (50)
feet in any "R-3" district.
12.5c Side Yards May Be Reduced: By three (3) inches from the otherwise
required least width or sum of the least widths for each foot by which a lot of
record at the time of enactment of this Ordinance is narrower than the lot
width specified for the district in which the lot is located, in the case of
buildings not higher than two and one-half (2-1/2) stories, and in case the
owner of record does not own any adjoining property; provided, however, that no
side yard shall be narrower at any point than three (3) feet.
12.5d No part of any accessory building shall be nearer a side street lot line
than the least depth of any front yard required along such side street.
12.5e Side Yards May Be Varied: Where the side walls of a building are not
parallel with the side lot line or is broken or otherwise irregular, in which
case, the average width, or narrower than three (3) feet in any case.
12.5f Structures or Projections into Side Yards May Be Permitted as Follows:
Fences, plantings or walls not over six (6) feet above the average natural
grade. Fire escapes three (3) feet from a side lot line. Bays and balconies not
more than three (3) feet from the building, provided these projections are
entirely within planes drawn from either main corner of the side wall, making
an interior angle of twenty-two and one-half (22-1/2) degrees in the horizontal
plane with the side wall. The sum of the lengths of such projection shall not
exceed one-third (1/3) of the length of the side yard.
12.5g Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sill, pilasters, lintels,
ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters and the like, into or over a
required side yard not more than one and one-half (1-1/2) feet.
12.5h Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar features not higher
than the elevation of the ground story of the building and distant three (3)
feet from a side lot line.
12.6 Rear Yard Exception and Modifications:
12.6a Rear Yards May Be Reduced: Rear yards may be reduced by three (3) inches
from the required least depth for each foot by which a lot at the time of
enactment of this Ordinance is less than one hundred (100) feet deep, in the
case of a building not higher than two and one-half (2-1/2) stories, and in the
case the owner of record does not own adjoining property to the rear, provided,
however, that no required rear yard shall be less than ten (10) feet deep.
12.6b Structures or Projections into Rear Yards May Be Permitted as Follows:
Fences, plantings or walls not over six (6) feet above the average natural
grade. Fire escapes six (6) feet from the building. Bays and balconies not more
than three (3) feet from the building, provided these projections are entirely
within the planes drawn from either main corner of the rear wall, making an
interior angle of twenty-two and one-half (22-1/2) degrees in the horizontal
plane with the rear wall. The sum of the lengths of such projections shall not
exceed one-half (1/2) of the width of the rear wall.
12.6c Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilaster lintels,
ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters and the like, into or over a
required rear yard not more than one and one-half (1-1/2) feet.
12.6d Terraces, steps, uncovered porches or similar features not more than ten
(10) feet into a required rear yard, nor closer than six (6) feet of an alley
or within ten (10) feet of a rear lot line, nor an alley lot line or within six
(6) feet of an accessory building. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XIII. R-1 ONE UNIT RESIDENTIAL
13.1 General Description:
The purpose of the R-1 One Unit Residential District is to provide for detached
single-unit housing opportunities in an urban setting at a low to medium
density level. While the R-1 district is intended to generally maintain
neighborhoods compromised of detached single-unit dwellings, other low impact
residential uses and some home occupations are appropriate.
13.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
13.2a One unit detached dwellings.
13.2b Day care home.
13.2c Foster family homes.
13.2d Unrelated group uses.
13.2e Municipal fire and police station.
13.2f Care home small residential.
13.2g Essential services and municipal administrative or public service
buildings not less than eighty feet (80') from any lot line.
13.2h Public parks and playgrounds.
13.2i Existing railroad right-of-way, but not switching storage or freight
yards of sidings.
13.2j Short-term rentals which must make available a minimum of one off-street
parking spot for use by the occupant of each short-term rental unit at the
property, the operator shall reside within the City of Rock Island or within
ten (10) miles of its periphery and shall not have signage exceeding one (1)
square foot in area.
13.2k Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
13.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
13.3a Any permitted accessory use in an "R-1" District.
13.3b Private garages or parking areas.
13.3c Private office of lawyer, architect, or engineer within their own
dwelling.
13.3d Minor home occupations, as defined.
13.3e Day care home licensed by the State of Illinois and with occupancy
permit.
13.3f Other uses incidental to a permitted use.
13.3g Agriculture, Urban.
13.3h Other uses incidental to a permitted use.
13.4 When Authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals:
13.4a Major Home Occupations.
13.4b Community Center.
13.4c Utility stations without service yards or storage.
13.4d Outdoor recreational facilities such as golf courses, country clubs, and
tennis courts.
13.4e Public and parochial schools as well as religious institutions not less
than twenty (20) feet from any lot in an "R" District.
13.4f Municipal buildings and libraries.
13.4g Off street parking facilities for permitted uses and/or uses permitted
upon review of appropriate authority in this zoning district.
13.4h Day care home, as defined, but serves between nine (9) and twelve (12)
children.
13.4i Any other similar uses deemed consistent by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
13.5 Height Regulations:
No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-
five feet (35') in height. No accessory structure shall exceed one (1) story.
13.6 Lot Area, Frontage, and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed.
 
Number of Stories Lot Width Front Yard Depth Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
1 to1½           50 ft.    25 ft.           6 ft.           30 ft.
2 to 2½          50 ft.    25 ft.           8 ft.           30 ft.
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XIV. R-2 ONE- AND TWO-UNIT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
14.1 General Description:
The purpose of the R-2 One and Two Unit Residential District is established to
provide housing opportunities that can also establish duplexes on a single lot
in an urban setting at a low to medium density level. Other low impact
residential uses and some home occupations are appropriate.
14.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
14.2a All permitted uses in an "R-1" District.
14.2b Two-unit dwellings.
14.2c Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
14.3 Permitted Accessory Uses: Any permitted accessory use in an "R-1"
District.
14.4 When Authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals:
14.4a Bed and breakfast inns.
14.4b Boarding and lodging houses.
14.4c Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
14.5 Height Regulations:
No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half (2½) stories or thirty-
five feet (35') in height and no accessory structure shall exceed one (1)
story.
14.6 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed.
 
Number of Front Lot Width Front Yard Depth Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
Stories
1 to 1½  50 ft.          25 ft.           6 ft.           30 ft.
2 to 2½  50 ft.          25 ft.           8 ft.           30 ft.
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XV. R-3 ONE TO SIX UNIT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
15.1 General Description:
The R-3 One to Six Unit Residence District is established to provide for
multiple unit housing opportunities at lower to moderate multiunit densities.
Housing in this district is to be compatible with surrounding housing types,
which may include single-unit, and meet the needs of a range of community
residents.
15.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
15.2a All permitted uses allowed in an "R-2" District.
15.2b Boarding and lodging houses.
15.2c Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
15.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
15.3a All permitted accessory uses in an "R-3" District.
15.3b Other uses incidental to a permitted use.
15.4 When Authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals:
15.4a Care home, large residential at least one thousand feet (1,000') from an
existing similar use.
15.4b Any use authorized by appropriate authority in an "R-3" District.
15.4c Nursing homes at least fifty feet (50') from any lot line.
15.4d Halfway house/group home at least one thousand feet (1,000') from an
existing similar use.
15.4e Day care centers licensed by the State of Illinois.
15.4f Private clubs, lodges, union halls.
15.4g Parking lots accessory to use in an adjoining or less restrictive
district when abutting or directly across an alley.
15.4h Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
15.5 Height Regulations:
No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half (2-1/2) stories or thirty-
five feet (35') in height, and no accessory structure shall exceed one (1)
story.
15.6 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed along with all bufferyard
requirements.
 
Number of Lot Area per   Front Lot Front Yard
Stories   Dwelling Unit  Width     Depth      Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
          (sq. ft.)
1 to 1½  2,000          50 ft.    25 ft.     6 ft.           30 ft.
2 to 2½  2,000          50 ft.    25 ft.     8 ft.           30 ft.
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XVI. R-4 MULTI-UNIT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
16.1 General Description:
R-4 Multi-Unit Residence District is established to provide for multiple unit
housing opportunities at moderate to higher densities. The district will
include a range of dwelling options to meet housing needs for the city. This
district is most appropriate on sites that are accessible to public
transportation and arterial or collector streets.
16.2. Permitted Principal Uses:
16.2a Any permitted use in an "R-3" District.
16.2b Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent by the appropriate
authority.
16.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
16.3a Any permitted accessory use in an "R-3" District.
16.3b Other uses incidental to a permitted use.
16.4 When Authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals:
16.4a Any use authorized by appropriate authority in an "R-3" District.
16.4b Any other similar use deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
16.5 Height Regulations:
No principal structure shall exceed twelve (12) stories or one hundred fifty
feet (150') in height at the required front, side and rear yard lines, other
than as provided in Section
9.1 . No accessory building shall exceed one (1) story.
16.6 Lot Area, Frontage, and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed along with all bufferyard
requirements.
Number of Required Lot  Front Lot Front Yard
Stories   Area per Unit Width     Depth      Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
          (sq. ft.)
Number of Required Lot  Front Lot Front Yard
Stories   Area per Unit Width     Depth      Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
          (sq. ft.)
1         2,000         50 ft.    30 ft.     6 ft.           30 ft.
2         2,000         52 ft.    30 ft.     6 ft.           30 ft.
3         2,000         55 ft.    30 ft.     8 ft.           35 ft.
4         2,000         65 ft.    30 ft.     10 ft.          40 ft.
5         2,000         75 ft.    30 ft.     12 ft.          45 ft.
6         2,000         85 ft.    30 ft.     14 ft.          50 ft.
7         2,000         95 ft.    30 ft.     18 ft.          55 ft.
8         2,000         105 ft.   30 ft.     22 ft.          60 ft.
9         2,000         115 ft.   30 ft.     26 ft.          65 ft.
10        2,000         125 ft.   30 ft.     30 ft.          70 ft.
11        2,000         135 ft.   30 ft.     34 ft.          75 ft.
12        2,000         150 ft.   30 ft.     38 ft.          80 ft.
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XVII. R-5 MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
17.1 General Description:
The R-5 Mobile Home District is established to provide for an alternative
living style and dwelling type to conventional single-unit housing. The purpose
of this district is to provide a grouping of home sites within the setting of a
residential area for manufactured housing units, which is designed in a unified
manner so as to establish a neighborhood character for the development.    
17.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
17.2a Foster family homes.
17.2b Mobile home parks (see Mobile Home Ordinance of the City of Rock Island).
17.2c Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-
2020)
ARTICLE XVIII. B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
18.1 General Description:
The Neighborhood Business District is intended to permit the development of
retail sales and personal services required to meet the day-to-day needs of a
fully developed neighborhood. Stores, businesses and offices in this zone
should be useful to the majority of the neighborhood residents. The convenience
nature of the various business uses located in this District requires them to
be in close proximity to residences and is intended to include a narrow range
of retail services and convenience goods.
18.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
18.2a All uses within this zone must be confined to two thousand five hundred
(2,500) internal square feet of the principal structure
18.2b Antique or custom furniture shop with incidental upholstery.
18.2c Bakery limited to goods for retail on the premises.
18.2d Banks or similar financial enterprise.
18.2e Barber or beauty shop.
18.2f Bicycle sales and service.
18.2g Business or professional office such as attorney, architect, engineer,
dentist, physician etc.
18.2h Camera or photographic supply store.
18.2i Clinics, private, for human care.
18.2j Costume rental.
18.2k Day care center meeting state and local permits with fenced play area.
18.2l Delicatessen.
18.2m Dry cleaning pick-up station.
18.2n Dwelling, above ground floor.
18.2o Health/recreational and physical training club.
18.2p Hobby shop.
18.2q Interior decorating shop including upholstery and drape making.
18.2r Laundromat.
18.2s Locksmith.
18.2t Music studio.
18.2u Restaurant, not drive-in or drive-thru.
18.2v Retail uses such as drugstore, florist, grocery, ice cream shop, meat
market, appliance, shoe, variety, stationary, book, clothing, packaged liquor
sales and candy stores with all activities, except for automobile off-street
parking, outdoor café seating and loading facilities as permitted or required
in this district, shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
18.2w Religious institutions.
18.2x Short-term rentals which must make available a minimum of one off-street
parking spot for use by the occupant of each short-term rental unit at the
property, which the operator shall reside within the City of Rock Island or
within ten (10) miles of its periphery and shall not have signage exceeding one
(1) square foot in area.
18.2y Cannabis packaged dispensing businesses, but must be located one hundred
(100) feet from any residential zoned property.
18.2z Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
18.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
Other uses incidental to a permitted use, but no accessory building shall be
located in a front yard.
18.4 When Authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
18.4a Auto accessory store.
18.4b Club or lodge.
18.4c Bus transfer station.
18.4d Convenience store.
18.4e Nursing home.
18.4f Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
18.5 Uses Prohibited:
Any commercial or manufacturing use except that which is clearly necessary for
the conduct of a permitted retail business or service on the premise.
18.6 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for both primary and
accessory building along with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory
building shall be located in a front yard.
 
Height              Front Yard Depth Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
35 ft. or same as   0 ft.            0 ft.           10 ft. or same as adjacent
adjacent R District                                  R District
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XIX. B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
19.1 General Description:
The Central Business District is intended to be a high density, compact,
pedestrian oriented shopping, office, service and entertainment area. This
District is one of high traffic generation and is thus located where there can
be a concentration of a variety of commercial activities.
19.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
19.2a Any use permitted in a B-1 District and allowing for retail
establishments with greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
19.2b Art galleries and studios.
19.2c Auction house.
19.2d Bar, dance hall, cocktail lounge or nightclub, private clubs, lodges,
union halls, tavern, retail tobacco business, on-site cannabis product
dispensing and product consumption dispensing business, micro-brewery when
enclosed and with building(s) and outside storage at least one hundred feet
(100') from any residentially zoned private property.
19.2e Bicycle sales and repair.
19.2f Blue printing, photostating, print shop and duplicating establishments.
19.2g Bus terminal, railroad station, freight terminal or other public
transportation terminal.
19.2h Business or trade school.
19.2i Catering within a building.
19.2j Ceramic products manufacture for sale on premises.
19.2k Religious institution.
19.2l Conservatory for retail sale on premises only.
19.2m Commercial parking lot.
19.2n Custom rental.
19.2o Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring or shoe repair for retail sales
on premises only.
19.2p Drapery and mattress manufacture for sale on premises.
19.2q Department stores.
19.2r Employment agency.
19.2s Engraving of lithographing.
19.2t Funeral home.
19.2u Garage, public.
19.2v Hardware or paint supply store without outdoor sales or storage.
19.2w Hotel/motel.
19.2x Laboratories, medical and dental.
19.2y Laundry or dry-cleaning shop when enclosed and with building(s) and
outside storage at least one hundred feet (100') from any residentially zoned
private property.
19.2z Meeting halls, clubs, fraternal organizations and lodges.
19.2aa Mirror and glazing shop, glass cutting.
19.2bb Pawn shop.
19.2cc Pet shops, but not animal hospitals.
19.2dd Picture framing.
19.2ee Plumbing, electrical, heating, and air conditioning supply stores or
show rooms without outdoor sales or storage and without repairs or fabrication.
19.2ff Public utility collection office.
19.2gg Public, customer or accessory parking lot.
19.2hh Radio, television and CATV stations, not transmitting towers.
19.2ii Second-hand stores and rummage shops.
19.2jj Taxidermist.
19.2kk Theater, indoor.
19.2ll Travel bureau and ticket office.
19.2mm Upholstering shop for furniture.
19.2nn Any other similar type use not specifically permitted herein which would
have economic compatibility with the established uses on adjoining properties.
19.2oo Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
19.2pp Light industrial and warehouse uses consistent with other identified
uses.
19.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
19.3a Permitted accessory uses in a B-1 District.
19.3b Assembly of small electrical appliances, instruments, small computers and
other electronic devices.
19.3c Sales of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine
products that do not meet the definition of a retail tobacco business.
19.3d Other uses incidental to a permitted use.
19.4 When Authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
19.4a Any use permitted on review in a B-1 District.
19.4b Auto accessory store.
19.4b Auto accessory store.
19.4c Transmission and receiving equipment for radio, television, cable, and
telephone.
19.4d Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
19.5 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed with both principal and
primary buildings with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory buildings
shall be located in a front yard.
 
Height Front Yard Depth Side Yard Width     Rear Yard Depth
None   None             None except same as None except same as adjacent
                        adjacent R District R District
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020; Ord. 005-2023, 3-13-2023; Ord. 38-2024, 6-10-2024)
ARTICLE XX. B-3 COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT
20.1 General Description:
The Community Business District is intended to provide for major businesses
which serve a significant segment of the population. The District may provide
for a variety of retail goods and services, along with large traffic generators
requiring access from major thoroughfares and a reliance on motor vehicle-
oriented trade. The district is dominated by uses with indoor operations,
although some may have limited outdoor activities. Development in the District
is encouraged in a manner which minimizes traffic hazards and interference with
other uses in the vicinity.
20.2 Permitted Uses:
20.2a Any uses permitted in a B-2 District.
20.2b Amusement centers, indoor, including bowling alleys, pool halls, billiard
parlors, skating rinks arcades and other similar uses.
20.2c Auto/pickup sales of a two-ton capacity or less and service enclosed and
with building(s) and outside storage at least one hundred feet (100') from
residentially zoned private property.
20.2d Car wash, single bay, enclosed and with building(s) and outside storage
at least one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private property.
20.2e Drive-in or drive-through restaurant.
20.2f Exterminating shop.
20.2g Fabric or floor covering sales.
20.2h Hospital of clinic for small animals with no long-term kennel use and at
least one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private property.
20.2i Any other similar type use not specifically listed herein, and which has
economic compatibility with the established uses on adjoining properties.
10.2j Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
20.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
20.3a Permitted accessory uses in a B-2 District.
20.3b Other uses incidental to a permitted use.
20.4 When Authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
20.4a Any use permitted on review in a B-2 District.
20.4b Car wash, multiple bays.
20.4c Recreational uses, open air such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
baseball fields and golf ranges, with building(s) and outdoor storage at least
one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private property.
20.4d Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
20.4e Automobile repair, minor, when at least one hundred feet (100') from
residentially zoned property.
20.5 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for both primary and
accessory building with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory building
shall be located in a front yard.
 
Height Front Yard Depth    Side Yard Width     Rear Yard Depth
45 ft. 20 ft. or same as   None except same as 10 ft. or same as adjacent
       adjacent R District adjacent R District R District
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020; Ord. 38-2024, 6-10-2024)
ARTICLE XXI. B-4 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
21.1 General Description:
The Highway/Intensive Business District is intended to permit development of
service uses relating to expressways or along other major arterial
thoroughfares. This district permits uses that, by their nature, tend to
generate heavy traffic usage. This district also provides for functions and
businesses which may be characterized by outdoor display, storage and/or sale
of merchandise, by repair of motor vehicles, and by outdoor commercial
amusement and recreational activities not completely enclosed.
21.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
21.2a Any use permitted in a B-3 District.
21.2b Auto repair, minor, when at least one hundred feet (100') from
residentially zoned property.
21.2c Agricultural implement sales and services with building(s) and outdoor
storage at least one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private
property.
21.2d Air conditioning and heating sales and service with outdoor fabrication
and repairs.
21.2e Bath house or boat house with building(s) and outdoor storage at least
one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private property.
21.2f Boat sales with building(s) and outdoor storage at least one hundred feet
(100') from residentially zoned private property.
21.2g Building material sales yard, wholesale business with warehouses as
specified in this ordinance, at least one hundred feet (100') from
residentially zoned private property.
21.2h Carpenter and cabinet shop with building(s) and outdoor storage at least
one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private property.
21.2i Car wash.
21.2j Contractors offices and shops within building.
21.2k Feed and seed store, wholesale.
21.2l Greenhouse with outside storage permitted.
21.2m Kennels with building(s) and outdoor storage at least one hundred feet
(100') from residentially zoned private property.
21.2n Motor vehicle dealerships with building(s) and outdoor storage at least
one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private property.
21.2o Recreational uses, public open air, such as swimming pools, tennis
courts, baseball fields, and golf ranges with building(s) and outdoor storage
at least one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private property.
21.2p Sign painting shop and similar establishment with building(s) and outdoor
storage at least one hundred feet (100') residentially zoned private property.
21.2q Travel trailer sales and service with building(s) and outdoor storage at
least one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned private property.
21.2r Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
21.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
21.3a Permitted accessory uses in a B-3 District.
21.3b Other uses incidental to a permitted principal use.
21.4 When Authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
21.4a Any uses permitted on review in a B-3 District.
21.4b Automobile repair, major when at least one hundred feet (100') from
residentially zoned property.
21.4b Auditorium.
21.5 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for both primary and
accessory building with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory building
shall be located in a front yard.
 
Height Front Yard          Side Yard           Rear Yard
45 ft. 20 ft. or same as   None except same as 10 ft. or same as adjacent
       adjacent R District adjacent R District R District
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020; Ord. 38-2024, 6-10-2024)
ARTICLE XXII. O-1 SMALL OFFICE DISTRICT
22.1 General Description:
The Small Office (O-1) district set forth herein is established to promote
public welfare, convenience, comfort, and orderly growth of the community.
These objectives include, but are not limited to the following:
22.1a To provide means of transitional use of land between commercial and
residential uses.
22.1b To promote, enhance, and conserve quality of the manmade environment.
22.1c To protect the worth of property.
22.1d To promote the most desirable use of land.
22.1e To provide an appropriate district for functions separate from those
dealing in sales, repair, recreation, storage, processing, assembly, lodging,
and eating.
22.1f To separate those functions which are obtrusive, quiet, do not generate
large quantities of waste, noise, odor or traffic, use heavy machinery, require
docking facilities or separate service entrances and which do not make use of
large illuminated displays or signs, from those which do.
22.1g To provide a use district for offices for those who provide services only
including instruments of service.
22.1h To provide a district of less intense use and to encourage lower density
use and retention of open space.
22.1i To make use of areas which are not appropriate for other uses.
22.1j To control the growth of other districts.
22.1k To make less valuable land available for use other than residential.
22.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
22.2a Religious Institution.
22.2b Community service offices.
22.2c Consultant offices.
22.2d Dwelling above the ground floor.
22.2e Funeral Home.
22.2f Nursing Home.
22.2g Offices providing clerical administration.
22.2h Professional offices.
22.2i Schools and facilities for academic instruction.
22.2j Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
22.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
Accessory uses incidental to a permitted principal use other than a permanent
residence.
22.4 When Authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals:
22.4a Dwellings.
22.4b Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
22.5 Height Regulations:
No principal structure shall exceed two (2) stories or thirty feet (30') in
height, and no accessory structure shall exceed one (1) story or fifteen feet
(15') in height, except as provided in Additional Requirements, Exceptions, and
Modifications chapter of this appendix.
22.6 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for both primary and
accessory building along with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory
building shall be located in a front yard.
 
Height              Front Yard Depth Side Yard Width      Rear Yard Depth
                                     10 feet or same as
                                     adjacent R District, 10 feet or same as
                                     whichever is         adjacent R District,
                                     greater. For         whichever is greater.
                                     Religious            For Religious
35 ft. or same as   0 ft.            Institutions and     Institutions and
adjacent R District                  Schools, however, it Schools, however, it
                                     shall be the same as shall be the same as
                                     adjacent R District  adjacent R District
                                     or 20 feet,          or 20 feet, whichever
                                     whichever is         is greater.
                                     greater.
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XXIII. O-2 LARGE OFFICE DISTRICT
23.1 General Description:
The Large Office District is intended to provide for large attractively
landscaped low-density sites primarily along an interstate or expressway
corridor. The area is appropriate for regional and/or national businesses and
offices, including research activities and some specialized unobjectionable
ultra-light industrial activities which take advantage of the transportation
corridor but are low intensity and sufficiently restricted to be compatible
with adjacent residential and commercial development. This may include
manufacturing, processing, packaging, assembly or treatment of finished or
semi-finished products from previously prepared materials. This district is
intended to have a green/open space atmosphere conducive to quality development
with the preservation of significant natural features. No outdoor storage is
allowed in this district and all operations must be in an enclosed building.
23.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
23.2a Offices for the following occupations: executive, administrative,
professional, accounting, writing, clerical, drafting, sales and engineering.
23.2b Hospital and special care facilities.
23.2c Computer manufacture, electronic assembly.
23.2d Custom cabinet shop.
23.2e Custom drapery manufacture.
23.2f Data processing and computer centers including computer programming and
software development, training, and service and maintenance of electronic data
processing equipment.
23.2g Research and development, technical training and related activities for
industrial, scientific and business enterprises, and design of pilot or
experimental products.
23.2h Mattress manufacture with retail activities.
23.2i Printing, publishing, duplicating and photographic processing.
23.2j Processing and assembly of engineering, laboratory, scientific, and
research instruments and associated equipment.
23.2k Prosthetic manufacture.
23.2l Laboratories for research, development, and testing of medical, optical,
dental and pharmaceutical products.
23.2m Hotel/motel.
23.2n Trade or industrial schools, personnel training center.
23.2o Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
23.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
23.3a Bar/cocktail lounge incidental to hotel/motel and/or restaurant.
23.3b Child care center when accessory to permitted principal use.
23.3c Convention center, assembly hall, display hall, or similar use when
accessory of hotel/motel.
23.3d Manufacturing when accessory to permitted principal use.
23.3e Retail business intended to serve the permitted uses within the district
and not dependent upon direct visits of retail customers.
23.3f Other uses incidental to permitted principal use.
23.4 When Authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
23.4a Bank.
23.4b Restaurant, excluding drive-in/thru.
23.4c Medical clinic.
23.4d Essential public services.
23.4e Hospital.
23.4f Museum.
23.4g Post office.
23.4h Parking lots, public or private.
23.4i Child care center.
23.4j Convention center, assembly hall, display hall, or similar use.
23.4k Manufacturing when accessory to permitted principal use.
23.4l Radio/television station.
23.4m Any other uses deemed to be consistent by the appropriate authority.
23.5 Prohibited Uses:
23.5a Adult uses.
23.5b Auto service station.
23.5c Mini-warehousing.
23.5d Restaurant, drive-in.
23.5e Retail except as noted.
23.5f Residential uses.
23.5g Freight terminal.
23.5h Auto salvage yard.
23.5i Disposal or storage of toxic waste.
23.5j Outdoor advertising, off premise.
23.6 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for both primary and
accessory building with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory building
shall be located in a front yard.
 
Height Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
45 ft. 50 ft.     15 ft.    20 ft.
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XXIV. I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
24.1 General Description:
The Light Industrial District is intended to provide for the development of
most types of industry with regulations designed to protect adjacent
properties. Uses may generally include the processing or manufacturing of
products or parts, including fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of
such products, and the incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such
products provided that all activity, besides loading and unloading, is
contained entirely within a fully enclosed building. Any heat, glare, dust,
smoke, fumes, odors, or vibration are confined to the building with no external
impacts detectable beyond the property line.
24.2 Permitted Uses:
24.2a Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles.
24.2b Assembly of products from finished materials and parts.
24.2c Bottling and canning of soft drinks.
24.2d Cabinet making.
24.2e Food processing.
24.2f Fur repair and storage.
24.2g Laboratories.
24.2h Laundry, dry cleaning, dyeing except walk-in/drive-up.
24.2i Motor freight terminal
24.2j Photo processing involving photo engraving.
24.2k Printing and binding.
24.2l Services, providing not more than five percent (5%) of the business comes
from retail on-premise sales and except repair or reconditioning of any motor
vehicles.
24.2m Wholesaling, warehousing and storage including mini-warehousing.
24.2n Cannabis craft growing facilities, when at least one hundred feet (100')
from residential zoning district.
24.2o Cannabis cultivation centers, when at least one hundred feet (100') from
residential zoning district.
24.2p Cannabis infuser organizations, processing organizations and
transportations, when at least one hundred feet (100') from residential zoning
district
24.2q Cannabis product dispensing businesses, when at least one hundred feet
(100') from residential zoning district.
24.2r Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
24.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
24.3a Offices.
24.3b Outdoor storage that is commonly found alongside permitted light
industrial uses. Said storage shall be located in the side and rear yards
meeting setback requirements for accessory structures and shall not cover more
than fifty percent (50%) of the property. Storage areas shall be effectively
screened by a solid wall or fence not less than six feet (6') in height.
24.3c Other accessory uses incidental to a permitted use.
24.4 Prohibited Uses:
24.4a Authorized uses in Heavy Industrial Districts.
24.4b Residential Uses.
24.4c Retail uses except as otherwise specified herein.
24.5 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for both primary and
accessory building with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory building
shall be located in a front yard.
 
Height Front Yard                                         Side Yard Rear Yard
45 ft. 20' for 1 - 3 stories, if > 3 stories, then 40% of 15 ft.    20 ft.
       building height
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020; amd. Ord. 38-2024, 6-10-2024)
ARTICLE XXV. HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
25.1 General Description:
The General Industrial District is intended to provide for large scale
manufacturing facilities not otherwise permitted which have potential
significant external impacts to adjacent properties. External impacts include
noise, heat, glare, dust, smoke, fumes, odor, and/or vibration. Uses may
include activities that take place outside of an enclosed building unless
otherwise prohibited herein or by other ordinances.
25.2 Permitted Uses:
25.2a Any use permitted in an I-1 District.
25.2b Any other use which, in the opinion of the appropriate authority, is of
similar character to those specified above.
25.2c Any of the following uses, when at least two hundred feet (200') from
residential zoning districts and at least one hundred feet (100') from any
other district, except an I-1 District or when authorized by the appropriate
authority.
25.2d Aircraft, assembly and testing.
25.2e Automobile, tractor trailer, farm implement assembly or manufacture.
25.2f Bleaching, cleaning and dyeing plant.
25.2g Boiler shops, machine shops, structural steel fabricating shops, railway
car or locomotive shops, including repair, metal working shops.
25.2h Box and crate manufacture.
25.2i Brewing or distilling of liquors.
25.2j Brick manufacture.
25.2k Candle or sperm oil manufacture.
25.2l Cans and other types of containers manufacture.
25.2m Cement, lime, gypsum, plaster or plaster-of-paris manufacture.
25.2n Chalk manufacture.
25.2o Coffin manufacture.
25.2p Cooperage works.
25.2q Cottonseed oil manufacture.
25.2r Dextrin, starch or glucose manufacture.
25.2s Dyes, aniline, ink pigments and others manufacture.
25.2t Emery cloth or sandpaper manufacture.
25.2u Enameling, lacquering or japanning.
25.2v Fertilizer, compost - manufacture or storage.
25.2w Gas-generation or storage for illumination or heating.
25.2x Grain elevators.
25.2y Lumber, preserving treatment, processing, sawmills and planing mills
manufacture.
25.2z Machinery, heavy manufacture and repair.
25.2aa Meat, packing and processing except slaughtering and glue and size
manufacture, but not stockyards or slaughterhouses.
25.2bb Metal stamping and extrusion of metal products manufacture and plating.
25.2cc Outdoor storage yards provided that no storage area is located in the
required front yard, meets all other setback requirements for accessory
structures, and is screened by solid wall or fence not less than six feet (6')
feet in height.
25.2dd Rubber products, including tires and tubes and tire recapping.
25.3ee Refuse equipment operation
25.2ff Sandblasting or cutting.
25.2gg Stone and monument works employing power driven tools.
25.2hh Vehicle Impound Lot and Towing Yard.
25.2Xii Wire or rod drawing - nut, screw or bolt manufacture.
25.2jj Wool scouring and pulling.
25.2kk Yeast manufacture.
25.2ll Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
25.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
25.3a Permitted accessory uses in an I-1 District.
25.3b Other uses incidental to a principal use.
25.4 When Authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
The following non-exhaustive list of land uses are considered to be ones which
have the greatest potential for use-conflict and shall therefore be subject to
the maximum degree of scrutiny when authorization is considered. These uses
shall not be authorized when they are within one thousand feet (1,000') of any
residential zoning district. Whenever these uses are authorized, a solid ten-
foot (10') fence or wall shall be erected around the entirety of the subject
property that effectively obscures all views into the site. All entry points
onto the subject property shall be controlled by a gate so that no person or
vehicle may enter without authorization being given by the property owner or
responsible party.
(a)   Any land use or activity which has the potential to threaten the public's
health and safety. This includes but is not limited to the bulk storage and/or
processing of explosives, volatile chemicals, fossil fuels, petroleum
derivatives, pesticides, insecticides, fertilizers, radioactive material, and
toxic and/or hazardous waste of any kind.
(b)   Resource extraction and processing of any kind including traditional
mining and hydraulic fracturing.
(c)   Aggregate processing and production of any kind.
(d)   Asphalt and concrete processing and production of any kind.
(e)   Recycling and garbage centers as well as transfer stations for such
materials.
(f)   Landfill operations for any and all kinds of waste.
(g)   Weapons processing and production of any kind.
(h)   Aviation facilities of any kind both public and private.
(i)   Junkyards and automobile wrecking yards of any kind with no pile of scrap
metal, salvage, junk, or similar materials exceeding ten (10') feet in height.
(j)   Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
25.5 Prohibited Uses:
Any prohibited use in an I-1 District, except as otherwise specified herein.
25.6 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed for both primary and
accessory building with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory building
shall be located in a front yard.
 
Height Front Yard                    Side Yard Rear Yard
75 ft. < 50 ft. then 20 ft. > 50 ft. 15 ft.    < 50 ft. then 20 ft. > 50 ft.
       then 40% of bldg. height                then 30 ft.
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020; Ord. 38-2024, 6-10-2024)
ARTICLE XXVI. C-1 PARK CONSERVATION DISTRICT
26.1 General Description:
The C-1 District is intended to provide for the conservation and preservation
of land, while allowing for development that will make use of its natural
beauty and allow for its enjoyment.
26.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
26.2a Public parks, playgrounds.
26.2b Cemeteries and associated uses including funeral homes and crematories.
26.2c Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
26.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
26.3a Accessory uses incidental to a permitted principal use other than a
permanent residence.
26.4 When Authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
26.4a Country clubs.
26.4b Community centers, private or public.
26.4c Recreational uses, open air such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
baseball and football fields and golf ranges, with buildings and outdoor
storage when abutting a highway or primary thoroughfare and at least four
hundred feet (400') from residentially zoned private property, church, school
or human care institution.
26.4d Church, school, or human care institution.
26.4e Inns or other dining places on and within five hundred feet (500') of a
highway or primary thoroughfare and with any structure at least four hundred
feet (400') from any residentially zoned private property, church, school, or
human care institution.
26.4f Outdoor rifle, trap or skeet shooting range at least six hundred feet
(600') from any residentially zoned private property, church, school or human
care institution subject to other state and federal guidelines.
26.4g Parking areas and equipment and materials storage yards accessory to
principal uses in adjoining districts within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
railroad, highway or primary thoroughfare and at least six hundred feet (600')
from any residentially zoned private property, church, school, or human care
institution.
26.4h Recreation vehicle parks on and within five hundred feet (500') of a
highway or primary thoroughfare and with any structure at least four hundred
feet (400') from residentially zoned private property, church, school, or human
care institution.
26.4i Any other use deemed to be consistent by the appropriate authority. (Ord.
070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XXVII. C-2 NATURE CONSERVATION DISTRICT
27.1 General Description:
The C-2 District is intended for environmental protection and preservation.
Land parcels within this District will include wetland, marshes, swamps, scenic
areas, hillsides of excessive slopes, watercourses, aquifer recharge areas,
watershed protection areas, wildlife habitat, rough terrain, and areas subject
to siltation and erosion.
27.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
27.2a Open space.
27.2b Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
27.3 When Authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals:
27.3a Agriculture and commercial summer gardens including agricultural
buildings but not permanent dwellings not to exceed seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet and no more than one (1) building per five (5) acre tract but not
the raising of livestock.
27.3b Campgrounds, wilderness.
27.3c Forestry activities and nurseries.
27.3d Public parks, passive.
27.3e Inns or other dining places on and within five hundred feet (500') of a
highway or primary thoroughfare and with any structure at least four hundred
feet (400') from any residentially zoned private property, church, school, or
human care institution.
27.3f Outdoor rifle, trap or skeet shooting range at least six hundred feet
(600') from any residentially zoned private property, church, school or human
care institution subject to other state and federal guidelines.
27.3g Parking areas and equipment and materials storage yards accessory to
principal uses in adjoining districts within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
railroad, highway or primary thoroughfare and at least six hundred feet (600')
from any residentially zoned private property, church, school, or human care
institution.
27.3h Recreation vehicle parks on and within five hundred feet (500') of a
highway or primary thoroughfare and with any structure at least four hundred
feet (400') from residentially zoned private property, church, school, or human
care institution.
27.3i Any other use deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XXVIII. U-1 UNIVERSITY DISTRICT
28.1 General Description:
This district is established to provide an area for colleges, universities,
seminaries and other such institutions of higher education. The intent of the
district is to establish an area in which institutions of higher education may
operate compatibly with surrounding residential and business areas.
28.2 Permitted Principal Uses:
28.2a Colleges, universities, seminaries and other such institutions of higher
education consisting of any number of educational, residential (apartment/
dormitories, dormitories), cultural and recreational buildings and parking
areas with all associated buildings located not less than thirty feet (30')
from any residentially zoned private property or one or two unit used lot.
28.2b High school campuses that contain substantial facilities comparable to
those of a college, university, seminary, or other such institution of higher
education.
28.2c Community residence with appropriate permits and at least one thousand
feet from any other community residence.
28.2d Dwellings, one and two unit.
28.2e Essential services and municipal, administrative or public services,
buildings or properties excluding warehouses, storage yards and garages with
all associated buildings at least twenty feet (20') from residentially zoned
private property.
28.2f Foster family homes.
28.2g Parochial buildings such as schools, religious institutions, and parish
buildings, public libraries and public safety and municipal government
buildings located not less than twenty feet (20') from any residentially zoned
private property.
28.2h Unrelated group homes.
28.2i Any other similar uses deemed to be consistent.
28.3 Permitted Accessory Uses:
28.3a Accessory uses permitted in an R-1 District.
28.3b Other uses incidental to a permitted use.
28.4 When Authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals:
28.4a Boarding and lodging house.
28.4b Fraternities and sororities.
28.4c Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes with any associated building at
least fifty feet (50') from any residentially zoned private property.
28.4d Any other similar use deemed to be consistent by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
28.5 Restrictions:
28.5a All buildings affiliated with institutions of higher education shall be
not less than thirty feet (30') from residentially zoned lots or existing one
and two unit used lots.
28.5b Private school buildings and public buildings shall be not less than
twenty feet (20') from the side lot line in an "R" District.
28.5c Small residential care homes shall be one thousand feet (1,000') from any
other community residence, shall be state or locally licensed and shall have a
certificate of occupancy from the Building Official.
28.6 Height Regulations:
28.6a No structure shall exceed thirty-five feet (35') for the principal
structure and fifteen feet (15') for an accessory structure.
28.6b To places of public assembly such as churches, schools and other
permitted public and semi-public buildings not to exceed six (6) stories or
seventy five feet (75'), provided that for each foot by which the height of
such building exceeds the maximum height otherwise permitted in the district,
its side and rear yards shall be increased in width or depth by an additional
foot over the side and rear yards required for the highest building otherwise
permitted in the district.
28.7 Lot Area and Yard Requirements:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed with both principal and
accessory buildings and along with all bufferyard requirements. No accessory
building shall be located in a front yard.
 
Number of Stories Lot Width Front Yard Depth Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
1 to 1½          50 ft.    25 ft.           6 ft.           30 ft.
2 to 2½          50 ft.    25 ft.           8 ft.           30 ft.
 
(Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XXIX. PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
29.1 Purpose:
The purpose of the planned unit development (PUD) district is to promote to the
extent possible:
29.1a A maximum choice in the types of environment available to the public by
allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict application
of the other sections of this appendix.
29.1b Permanent preservation of common open space and recreation areas and
facilities.
29.1c A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation, topographic, and
geologic features.
29.1d A creative approach to the use of land and related physical facilities
that results in better development, design and the construction of aesthetic
amenities.
29.1e An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, and other facilities.
29.1f A land use which promotes the public health, safety, comfort, morals, and
welfare.
29.1g To improve stormwater management practices and reduce flooding, erosion,
and sedimentation through the retention of open space, vegetation, and natural
drainage patterns.
29.1h To implement adopted land use and community policies.
29.1i To implement provision of the Illinois Quad Cities Greenway Plan.
29.1j To create neighborhoods with direct visual access to open land, with
amenities in the form of neighborhood open space, and with a strong
neighborhood identity.
29.1k To conserve scenic views and elements of the municipality's rural
character.
29.2
The PUD district is intended to provide for a development incorporating a
single type or a variety of related uses which are planned and developed as a
unit but departs from the normal standards and requirements of other sections
of this ordinance. The planned unit development may provide amenities not
otherwise required by law and may establish facilities and open space greater
than the minimums required by law. Such development may consist of
conventionally subdivided lots or provide for development by a land use and
zoning plan which establishes the location and extent of the features of the
planned unit development in keeping with the purpose of the plan. The foregoing
purposes and principals shall not be interpreted to permit the reduction of
standards set forth in this section.
29.3 Procedure:
The owner, owners, or bona fide buyer of any tract of land may petition the
Planning Commission and City Council for a change to the PUD zoning district in
accordance with District Changes and Ordinance Amendments. A planned unit
development shall be authorized in accordance with the following procedures:
29.3a Application procedure:
   (1)   The application for a rezoning to the PUD zoning district shall be
accompanied by an application plan meeting the requirements of this chapter and
show evidence that the proposed development will conform to the official city
plan. The Planning Commission and City Council shall grant or deny said
application pursuant to the provisions contained in District Changes and
Ordinance Amendments. Approval of the PUD zoning district shall constitute an
expression of approval by the City Council of the application plan as a guide
to the preparation of the preliminary PUD plan. The applications shall be
accompanied by a filing fee in an amount equal to that prescribed by District
Changes and Ordinance Amendments.
   (2)   To reduce the number of steps involved in the approval of a planned
unit development, a preliminary PUD plan meeting the requirements of this
chapter section may be submitted in lieu of an application plan required above.
29.3b Approval of the preliminary plan:
   (1)   Copies of the preliminary PUD plan and supporting data shall be
submitted to the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator for certification as
to conformity with these regulations, recommendations, and suggestions
regarding the overall design, if any.
   (2)   Copies of the preliminary PUD plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission who shall hold public hearings on the application for a preliminary
PUD plan giving notice of the times and places as required by state law by
publishing a notice thereof at least once in a publication having general
circulation within the city. Following the public hearings, a recommendation of
approval or denial of the preliminary PUD plan shall be made by the Planning
Commission to the City Council. If needed, the City Council shall review the
preliminary PUD plan and grant or deny any exceptions or variances needed.
29.3c Findings: The Planning Commission and City Council shall set forth the
reasons for the recommendation, and said recommendation shall set forth how the
proposal would be in the public interest, including but not limited to findings
of facts on the following:
   (1)   In what respects the proposed plan is consistent with the stated
purpose of the planned unit development requirements.
   (2)   The extent to which the proposed plan meets the requirements and
standards of the planned unit development district.
   (3)   The extent to which the proposed plan departs from the zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property, including
but not limited to the density, dimension, area, bulk and use, and the reasons
why such departures are deemed to be in the public interest.
   (4)   The physical design of the proposed plan and the manner in which said
design makes adequate provision for public services, provides adequate control
over vehicular traffic, provides for and protects designated common open space,
and furthers the amenities of light, air, recreation, and visual enjoyment.
   (5)   The relationship and compatibility of the proposed plan to the
adjacent properties and neighborhood.
   (6)   The desirability of the proposed plan to physical development, tax
base, and economic well-being of the entire community.
   (7)   The conformity with the intent and spirit of the comprehensive plan.
   (8)   Specific points noted on the plan that have impact on its design,
function, and visibility in the community.
29.3d Following receipt of the recommendation by the Planning Commission and
approval by the Planning Commission, the City Council shall, within sixty (60)
days, recommend approval, modification within limits of a minor change, or
disapproval of the planned unit development plan.
29.3e All conditions, documents, and plans required by the City Council must be
delineated on the plat or agreed to in writing prior to City Council approval.
29.3f The City Council may require such special conditions as they may deem
necessary to insure conformance with the intent of all comprehensive plan
elements, the stated purpose of the planned development district and
established city policies.
29.3g Approval of a preliminary planned unit development plan shall not
constitute approval of the final plan. Rather it shall be deemed an expression
of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plan as a guide to the
preparation of the final plan which will be submitted for approval of the city.
The final plan shall be approved as the final land use and zoning plan if it
conforms substantially with the preliminary land use and zoning plan.
29.3h The final plan may be considered as a preliminary and final plan and may
be submitted for preliminary and final approval, if all of the land is to be
developed at one time, and if all requirements hereof are met.
29.3i The provisions of District Changes and Ordinance Amendments shall be
applicable to the preliminary PUD plan.
29.4 Approval of final plan:
The final planned unit development plan shall be submitted to the Planning and
Redevelopment Administrator who shall refer same to the Planning Commission and
City Council. The final PUD plan shall conform to the preliminary PUD plan as
approved or subject to minor changes, and may be submitted in stages with each
stage reflecting the approved preliminary plan; provided, however, that such
stage conforms to all requirements of these regulations. The required procedure
for approval of a final plan shall be:
29.4a A final planned unit development plan and other supporting data required
for approval shall be in accord with the application provisions of this
chapter. Final plans must be submitted for approval in accordance with agreed-
to scheduling, but not later than five (5) years from the approval of the
preliminary plan by the City Council. The City Council may grant an extension
in time or the developer may resubmit an application; in the event that same is
not done, the City Council shall initiate such zoning changes as it deems
necessary to preserve the public interest. If construction falls more than two
(2) years behind the schedule filed with the final plan, the plan becomes
subject to revocation. The Planning and Redevelopment Administrator shall
monitor all pending PUD projects and inform the City Council of those six (6)
months or more behind schedule.
29.4b The final plan and supporting data shall be submitted to the City Council
for certification that the final plan is in conformity with these regulations
and in agreement with the approved preliminary plan.
29.4c After review of the final plan, the Planning Commission shall submit the
planned unit development plan to the City Council with a recommendation for
approval, disapproval, or approval with minor modifications as reviewed at the
public hearing. Any changes or modifications which arise subsequent to the
public hearing shall be specifically noted and referred to the City Council who
shall determine whether the change constitutes a major or minor change and
whether another public hearing is required.
29.4d The City Council shall, within sixty (60) days, approve, disapprove, or
extend the time period for another sixty (60) days in acting on the final plan.
29.4e All conditions, documents, and plans required by the council must be
delineated on the plan or agreed to in writing prior to council approval.
29.5 Recording the final planned unit development plan.
The construction of any public improvement in the planned unit development
shall be initiated only after recording of the final PUD plan has been recorded
with the county recorder, and shall be issued in full conformance with this
ordinance.
29.6 Changes in the planned unit development.
The planned unit development shall be developed according to the approved and
recorded final plan, recorded approved plan and supporting data together with
all recorded amendments shall be binding on the applicants, their successors,
grantees and assigns, and shall limit and control the use of premises and
location of structures in the planned unit development project as set forth
therein.
29.6a Major changes: A change in the approved preliminary PUD plan or final PUD
plan which alters the concept or intent of the planned unit development
including a change in usage, the configuration, increase in floor area or the
height of buildings, an increase in intensity, a reduction of proposed open
space, a change in road locations or standards, a change in the final governing
agreement, provisions or covenants, or other major changes, shall be approved
only by submission of a new preliminary PUD plan in accordance with the
procedures as previously set forth for the approval of preliminary and final
PUD plans. All approved major changes in the final PUD plan shall be recorded
with the county recorder as amendments to the final PUD plan.
29.6b Minor changes: The appropriate authority may approve minor changes in the
planned unit development which do not change the concept or intent of the
development, without going through the "preliminary approval" steps. Minor
changes shall be any change not defined as a major change.
29.7 Specific Content:
The planned unit development plans and supporting data shall include at least
the following information:
29.7a Application Stage:
   (1)   General site information: Data regarding site conditions, and
characteristics, available community facilities and utilities, existing
covenants and other related information.
   (2)   Sketch plan: A drawing in simple sketch form showing the proposed
location and extent of the land uses, streets, sidewalks, lots, and other
features.
29.7b Preliminary Plan Stage:
   (1)   Design plan: A drawing of the planned unit development shall be
prepared at a scale of either one-inch equals one hundred (100) feet or one-
inch equals fifty (50) feet, or such other scale that may be recommended by
appropriate city authority. Any change in scale between the preliminary and
final plan shall be accompanied by a signed statement from the developer
attesting that there have been no modifications. All plans shall show the
general location of proposed streets (public and private), sidewalks, all
buildings and their use, common open space, recreation facilities, parking
areas, service areas, and other facilities to indicate the character of the
proposed development. The submission may be composed of one or more sheets and
drawings and shall include:
      a.   Boundary lines: Bearing and distances.
      b.   Easements: General location, width, and purpose.
      c.   Public and private streets on and adjacent to the tract: Street
names, right-of-way widths, existing or proposed centerline elevations,
pavement type, walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, distance to nearest
intersection, etc.
      d.   Utilities (public or private) on and adjacent to the tract:
Location, size and invert elevations of sanitary, storm and combined sewers;
location and size of water mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants,
electric and telephone lines and street lights on the tract. The direction and
distance to the nearest usable water mains and sewers anticipated to be
utilized by the development and elevations of sewers. Drainage district
boundaries and appropriate design criteria necessary for storm drainage plans.
      e.   Existing ground elevations on the tract: For land that slopes less
than one-half of one (1/2 of 1) percent, show one-foot contours; show spot
elevations at all breaks in grades along all drainage channels or swales and at
selected points not more than one hundred (100) feet apart in all directions;
for land that slopes more than one-half of one (1/2 of 1) percent show two (2)
foot contours.
      f.   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required by the commission or
council: Location and results of tests made to generally ascertain subsurface
soil, rock, and ground water conditions; depth to ground water unless test pits
are dry at a depth of five (5) feet: The location and results of soil
percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.
      g.   Other conditions are on the tract: Watercourses, flood plains,
marshes, rock outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot or
more in diameter, houses, barns, accessory buildings and other significant
features.
      h.   Other conditions on adjacent land: Approximate direction and
gradient of ground slopes, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and general location of buildings, including a notation on the front
setback, railroads, power lines, towers, and other nearby nonresidential land
uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent unplanted land; for adjacent
platted land refer to subdivision plan by name and show approximate percent
built up; typical lot size and dwelling type.
      i.   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
      j.   Proposed public improvements: Highways or other major improvements
planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
      k.   Open space: All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public
use of all property owners with the purpose indicated.
      l.   General location, purpose, and height, in feet or stories of each
building other than single-unit residences on individually platted lots.
      m.   Map data: Name of development, north point and scale, date of
preparation, acreage of site and name and address of developer, designer, and
engineer.
      n.   Miscellaneous: Such additional information as may be required by the
appropriate authority or found in the subdivision control ordinance.
   (2)   Character: Explanation of the character of the planned unit
development and the reasons why it has been planned to take advantage of the
flexibility of these regulations.
   (3)   Ownership: Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land
within the project, including present tract designation according to official
records in offices of the county recorder.
   (4)   Schedule: Development schedule indicating:
      a.   Stages in which project will be built with emphasis on area,
density, use and public facilities such as open space to be developed with each
stage shall be shown on the plan and through supporting graphic material.
      b.   Completion date or dates of new construction for above and below
ground facilities, utilities, and buffer planting.
      c.   If different land use types are to be included within the planned
unit development, the schedule must normally include the mix of uses to be
built in each stage.
   (5)   Covenants: Proposed agreements, provisions, or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the planned
development and any of its common open space.
   (6)   Density: Provide information on the density of residential uses and
the number of dwelling units by type.
   (7)   Use: Provide a list of uses planned for the ancillary and
nonresidential uses.
   (8)   Service facilities: Provide information on all service facilities and
off-street parking facilities.
   (9)   Architectural plans: Preliminary architectural plans for all primary
buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an understanding of
the style of the development, the design of the building and the number, size,
and type of dwelling units.
   (10)   Facilities plans (public and/or private). Preliminary plans for:
      a.   Roads and sidewalks, including classification, width of right-of-
way, width of pavement, typical construction details, and plan and profile
drawings.
      b.   Sanitary sewers.
      c.   Storm drainage and erosion.
      d.   Water supply system, if required by the appropriate authority.
      e.   Lighting program, if required by the appropriate authority.
      f.   Grading.
29.7c Final Plan Stage:
   (1)   Final detailed plan: A final land use and zoning plan shall be
prepared. The purpose of the land use and zoning plan is to designate the land
subdivided into conventional lots as well as the division of other land, not so
treated, into common open areas and building areas. The final land use and
zoning plan shall include, but not be limited to:
      a.   An accurate legal metes and bounds description of the entire area
under immediate development within the planned development.
      b.   A subdivision plan of all subdivided lands in the same form and
meeting all the requirements of a normal subdivision final plan.
      c.   An accurate legal metes and bounds description of each separate
unsubdivided use area, including common open space.
      d.   Designation of the exact location of all buildings to be constructed
in unsubdivided areas.
      e.   Tabulations on separate subdivided use area, including land area,
number of buildings, number of dwelling units, and dwelling units per acre.
      f.   Architectural plans unless waived by the appropriate authority
during the preliminary stage.
   (2)   Common open space documents: All common open space shall be either
conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, conveyed to nonprofit
corporation or entity established for the purpose of benefiting the owners and
residents of the planned unit development or retained by the developer with
legally binding guarantees, in a form approved by the city attorney, that the
common open space will be permanently preserved and maintained as open area.
All land conveyed to a nonprofit corporation or like entity shall be subject to
the right of said corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien for
maintenance and improvement of the common open space.
   (3)   Engineering data: All public utilities or improvements required by the
City in the development of a planned unit development shall be constructed only
after the approval of the final plan. Supporting data to be submitted with the
final plans shall include final engineering drawings (construction plans), as
required by the appropriate authority.
   (4)   Guarantee deposit: Prior to the acceptance by the appropriate
authority of public utilities and improvements, the contractor(s) for the owner
of the land shall furnish to the City a good and sufficient bond with surety to
secure to the City the actual construction and installation of such public
utilities or improvements according to the City specifications within two (2)
years from the date of approval by the appropriate authority of the final plan
or a petition to the appropriate authority to provide the required public
facilities or improvements and to assess the cost thereof against the
subdivided property in accordance with the local requirements regarding special
assessments; provided, however, that the subdivider or property owners shall be
responsible for any differences between the cost of the public utilities or
improvements and the amount that can be legally assessed by the City against
the subdivided property, and shall furnish the necessary waivers to permit the
assessment of the entire costs of the public utilities or improvements. A
maintenance bond shall be provided for the repairs necessitated by defects in
material or workmanship not to exceed four (4) years from the date of
completion as certified by the appropriate authority.
   (5)   Certificates, seals, and signatures required for the dedication of
lands and recording document, as set forth in the subdivision regulations.
   (6)   Covenants: Final agreements, provisions, or covenants which will
provide for the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the planned unit
development, if applicable.
29.7d Standards: The planned unit development must meet the following
standards:
   (1)   Comprehensive plan: A planned unit development must conform with the
intent and spirit of the comprehensive plan.
   (2)   Size: The site of the total planned unit development must be under
single ownership and/or unified control and be not less than twenty-thousand
(20,000) square feet in area.
   (3)   Compatibility: The uses permitted in a planned unit development must
be of a type and so located so as to exercise no undue detrimental influence
upon surrounding properties.
   (4)   Space: Space between buildings shall be subject to approval during the
review process.
   (5)   Open Space Land Use and Design:
      a.   Permitted open space uses: The following uses are permitted in open
space land areas:
         1.   Conservation of open land in its natural state (for example,
woodland fallow field, or managed meadow).
         2.   Agricultural and horticultural uses, including raising crops or
livestock, wholesale nurseries, and associated buildings, including residences
that are specifically needed to support an active, viable agricultural or
horticultural operation. Specifically excluded are commercial livestock
operations involving swine, poultry, and other animals likely to produce highly
offensive odors.
         3.   Pastureland for horses used solely for recreational purposes.
Equestrian facilities shall be permitted but may not consume more than 65% of
the minimum required open space land.
         4.   Silviculture, in keeping with established standards for selective
harvesting and sustained-yield forestry.
         5.   Neighborhood open space uses such as village greens, commons,
picnic areas community gardens, trails, and similar low-impact passive
recreational uses. Motorized off-road vehicles, rifle ranges, and other uses
similar in character and potential impact are specifically excluded.
         6.   Active non-commercial recreation areas, such as ball fields,
playgrounds, courts and bikeways, provided such areas do not consume more than
half of the minimum required open space land or five acres, whichever is less.
Ball fields, playgrounds, and courts shall not be located within one hundred
(100) feet of abutting properties and shall not be illuminated for activity
after dark. Parking facilities for the same shall also be permitted and shall
generally be gravel-surfaced, properly drained, provide safe ingress and
egress, and contain no more than ten parking spaces.
         7.   Golf courses may comprise up to seventy five percent (75%) of the
minimum required open space land, but shall not include commercial driving
ranges or miniature golf. Not more than ten percent (10%) of the remaining open
space land may be wetland, submerged, or used for stormwater management. Golf
course parking areas and any associated structures shall not be included within
the minimum open space requirement. Parking and access ways may be paved and
lighted. Golf courses included as part of the open space shall be designed to
maximize the extent of fairways that front along adjacent public roads.
Naturalistic plantings comprised of indigenous species shall be established in
the buffer areas between the fairways and the adjacent roadways.
         8.   Stormwater drainage and detention areas designed, landscaped, and
available for use as an integral part of the open space.
         9.   Easements for drainage, access, sewer or water lines, bike paths,
or other public purposes.
         10.   Underground utility rights-of-way. Utility and street rights-of
way may traverse conservation areas. Street rights-of way shall not count
toward the minimum required open space land, but underground utility rights-of
way shall.
      b.   Open space design standards. The following standards shall be
adhered to in the design of the open space and greenway areas:
         1.   Open space shall be laid out in general accordance with the open
space and greenway networks.
         2.   Long, narrow strips of open space are discouraged, except where
designed to protect linear resources such as streets or trails or to provide
connections between larger open space areas.
         3.   Fragmentation of open space into isolated unlinked pieces is
discouraged, except to provide neighborhood parks and common areas.
         4.   Dedicated open space land shall generally remain undivided and
may be owned and maintained by a homeowners' association, land trust, another
conservation organization recognized by the municipality, or by a private
individual (typically as part of "non-common" conservation land used for rural
resource activities, such as equestrian facilities, tree nurseries, etc.).
However, in no case shall less than 25 percent of the property be available for
the common use and passive enjoyment of the subdivision residents. These
ownership options may be combined so that different parts of the open space
land may be owned by different entities.
         5.   The open space shall include land dedicated for public
recreational use as outlined in the City subdivision regulations.
         6.   Where the proposed development adjoins public parkland, a natural
open space buffer at least fifty (50) feet deep shall be provided within the
development along its common boundary with the parkland, within which no new
structures shall be constructed, nor shall any clearing of trees or understory
growth be permitted (except as may be necessary for street or tail
construction). Where this buffer is unwooded, the City may require vegetative
screening to be planted, or that it be managed to encourage natural forest
succession through "no-mow" policies and the periodic removal of invasive alien
plant and tree species.
      c.   Other requirements:
         1.   No portion of any building lot may be used for meeting the
minimum open space required. However, active agricultural land with farm
buildings, excluding areas used for residences, may be used to meet the minimum
required open space land.
         2.   Pedestrian and maintenance access, excluding those lands used for
agricultural or horticultural purposes in accordance with the permitted open
space uses specified herein, shall be provided to open space land in accordance
with the following requirements:
            i.   Each neighborhood shall be provided with one centrally located
access point to the open space per twenty five (25) lots, a minimum of thirty
(30) feet in width.
            ii.   Access to open space land used for agriculture may be
appropriately restricted for public safety and to prevent interference with
agricultural operations.
         3.   All open space land areas that are not wooded or farmed shall be
landscaped, re-vegetated, or managed to encourage natural succession to meadow
or woodland.
   (6)   Yards:
      a.   The required yards along the periphery of the project should be at
least equal in width or depth to that of the adjacent zoning district.
      b.   All other yards shall be subject to approval during the review
process.
   (7)   Parking requirements: Adequate, adjacent parking shall be provided
based on design and use.
   (8)   Traffic: That adequate provision be made to provide ingress and egress
so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets. The
appropriate authority or council may require a professional traffic engineer to
investigate and submit a traffic study.
   (9)   Low Density Conservation Standard: Open space shall comprise a minimum
of fifty percent (50%) of the development site. In no case shall the gross
density of the development exceed 1.4 development units per acre. A development
unit is defined as the entire impervious developed area of the unit including
the building footprint and surfaced parking, driveways, sidewalks, etc. No more
than twenty percent (20%) of the minimum open space land may be wetland,
submerged or used as a stormwater retention facility. The open space
requirement shall include land dedicated for public recreational use in
accordance with the subdivision regulations of this City.
   (10)   Medium Density Conservation Standard: Open space shall comprise a
minimum of 30 percent of the development site. In no case shall the gross
density of the development exceed 2.0 development units per acre. A development
unit is defined as the entire impervious developed area of the unit including
the building footprint and surfaced parking, driveways, sidewalks, etc. No more
than twenty percent (20%) of the minimum open space land may be wetland,
submerged or used as a stormwater retention facility. The open space
requirement shall include land dedicated for public recreational use in
accordance with the subdivision regulations of this City.
   (11)   Other Standards: The planned unit development may depart from strict
conformance with the required density, dimension, area, height, bulk, use, and
other regulations for the standard zoning districts and other provisions of
this ordinance to the extent specified in the preliminary land use and zoning
plan and documents authorizing the planned unit development so long as the
planned unit development project will not be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, morals, comfort, or general welfare. All new
construction shall conform to City specifications and regulations.
29.8 Conditions and Guarantees:
Prior to the granting of any planned unit development, the appropriate
authority may stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon the
establishment, location, design, layout, height, density, construction,
maintenance, aesthetics, operation and other elements of planned unit
development as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest,
improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent area and to secure
compliance with the standards specified in Section 32.4. In all cases in which
planned unit developments are granted, the appropriate authority shall require
such evidence and guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the
conditions stipulated in connection therewith are being and will be complied
with. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XXX. ILLUMINATIONS PROVISIONS
30.1 Purpose:
The purpose of this section is to establish lighting requirements for personal
safety and crime prevention while regulating any spill-over of light and glare
on operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians, and land uses near a light source
to promote personal and traffic safety and to prevent the creation of public
nuisances.
30.2 Lighting Plan:
Except for single unit and two-unit dwellings, plans for required parking lot
and security lighting shall be approved by appropriate officials and the police
department prior to approval and issuance of permits. Plans, at appropriate
scale, shall be based on accurate, approved final site plans and shall depict
all exterior lighting as to its location, orientation and configuration. This
must include, but not be limited to:
30.2a Luminaire height;
30.2b Luminaire and standard technical specifications;
30.2c Intensity of illumination measured at the least point of illumination and
the greatest point of illumination when measured from ground level;
30.2d Type of light source (Metal Halide, High Pressure Sodium, etc.);
30.2e Hours of illumination; and
30.2f Photometric plan superimposed on the site plan for each classification of
lighting with points no greater than thirty (30) feet apart.
30.3 Lighting Standards:
30.3a Wall or roof lighting may be used to illuminate the pedestrian walkways,
entrance areas, and yard areas within thirty (30) feet of the building. No wall
or roof lighting shall be used to illuminate areas for motor vehicle parking or
access unless the police department and the appropriate officials find the
following:
   (1)   That the proposed lighting is not in conflict with the stated purpose
in this section.
   (2)   That the proposed lighting will not unreasonable harm or restrict
public health, safety, and welfare or create a nuisance; and
   (3)   The proposed luminaire has a cutoff angle of less than or equal to 66
degrees.
30.3b Any open area used for motor vehicle parking, storage, or access shall be
illuminated with freestanding luminaries. Freestanding luminaries are permitted
to be a maximum of thirty (30) feet in height with a three (3)-foot support,
for a maximum height from the ground of thirty three (33) feet. When a
luminaire is located within five hundred (500) feet of a protected residential
property, the maximum permitted luminaire height shall be twenty five (25)
feet. All measurements shall be taken from the average elevation of the
finished grade within ten (10) feet of the structure or fixture to the highest
point of the luminaire. All luminaries must have a total cutoff angle equal to
or less than ninety (90) degrees. The use of exterior lighting with a cutoff
angle greater than ninety (90) degrees shall be permitted only when the police
department and appropriate official find the following:
   (1)   That the lighting is not in conflict with the stated purpose in this
section;
   (2)   That the proposed lighting will not unreasonably harm or restrict
public health, safety, and welfare or create a nuisance; and
   (3)   The proposed lighting will not result in an impairment of vision
creating a hazard for vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
30.3c In no instance shall Low Pressure Sodium fixtures be used to illuminate
non-protected residential property unless the police department finds the
following:
   (1)   That the proposed lighting is not in conflict with the stated purpose
in this section;
   (2)   That the proposed lighting will not unreasonably harm or restrict
public health, safety, and welfare or create a nuisance; and
   (3)   The color distortion effect of Low-Pressure Sodium lighting will not
create a hindrance to crime prevention and investigation.
30.3d The amount of illumination attributable to exterior lighting from a
property shall not exceed 1 foot-candle when measured at any boundary line with
an adjoining property. This provision may be waived by the issuing authority
when:
   (1)   The proposed lighting is not in conflict with the stated purpose of
this section;
   (2)   The proposed lighting will not unreasonably harm or restrict public
health, safety, and welfare or create a nuisance; and
   (3)   The proposed lighting will not result in an impairment of vision
creating a hazard for vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
30.3e All parking lot and parking structure lighting located within three
hundred (300) feet of a protected residential property line may be illuminated
not more than one (1) hour before the start of business and shall be
extinguished within one (1) hour after the end of business except as approved
by the police department after finding the following:
   (1)   The property has been identified as an area where the incidence or
potential for crime warrant additional lighting;
   (2)   Additional lighting is required to increase visibility of a property
which is not readily accessible for police during routine patrol; and
   (3)   The use of timers, sensors, or other devices that produce a reduced
lighting level that does not conflict with the stated purpose in this section.
30.3f Glare/Illumination: In all zoning districts, any lighting shall be
arranged to reflect the light away from adjoining property. A person shall not
conduct a use that has a source of illumination that produces glare clearly
visible beyond a property line or creates a sensation of brightness within a
visual field so as to cause annoyance, discomfort, or impairment of vision. The
use of lenses, deflectors, shields, louvers, or prismatic control devices shall
be used to eliminate nuisance and hazardous lighting to facilitate compliance
with this requirement.
30.3g Parking structures: Luminaries used for illumination of designated
pedestrian walkways in parking structures shall be of a significantly different
color value than luminaries used for illuminating vehicle parking and drive
aisles.
30.4 Compliance:
Any new permanent lighting (defined as existing for more than ninety (90) days)
installed after the effective date of this ordinance shall follow the
requirements of this appendix. Any existing permanent lighting located at one-
and two-unit residential uses shall conform to these illumination performance
standards. Any existing permanent lighting for any use other than one and two
unit uses that does not comply with the requirements in this ordinance shall be
considered legally non-complying and may remain, subject to the following
provisions:
30.4a Alterations to existing lighting:
   (1)   When poles and support structures are removed and replaced for reasons
other than acts of God or accidents, they must be replaced with luminaries,
poles and supports that comply with this section; and
   (2)   When luminaries are replaced, they must be replaced with luminaries
that comply with all provisions of this section.
30.4b Removal and Replacement of Parking Lot Surface: When less than fifty
percent (50%) of the gross area of the parking lot surface on a particular site
is removed and replaced, only the parking area replaced must be provided with
lighting in compliance with this section. If greater than fifty percent (50%)
of the parking area on a particular site is removed and replaced at one time,
the entire parking lot on the site where the construction activity occurs must
be in full compliance with this section. A parking lot or portion thereof is
"removed and replaced" when any portion of the existing parking surface
material is removed and a new surface is installed.
30.4c New Parking Lots or Parking Lot Additions: When a new parking lot or
addition to an existing parking lot is constructed, the new lot or lot addition
must be provided with lighting in compliance with this section.
30.4d New Structures, Additions, or Replacements: When a site is improved with
new structures, or additions to, or replacements of existing structures, the
lighting for the new structure, addition or replacement on the site must be
upgraded with complying lighting. The parking lot lighting must be upgraded
with complying lighting over a portion of the parking area that is equivalent
to the amount of parking that would be required for the new structure, addition
or replacement. In the event that the new structure, addition or replacement is
accompanied by new or replaced parking area, the amount of upgraded lighting
area shall be that required under this section.
30.4e Change of Type of Occupancy:  When the type of occupancy of a site is
changed, the lighting for the site shall be upgraded, to comply with this
section for the structure and the parking lot be upgraded for the required
parking for the occupancy as established in this code. For purpose of
determining the type of occupancy of a site, the occupancy classifications of
the city code shall be utilized.
30.4f Unoccupied Sites: When a site has been unoccupied for a period of one (1)
year, the lighting shall be upgraded to fully comply with this section prior to
any reoccupation of the site.
30.4g Development Application: When a development application is made for a
site, the city council may as a condition of approval require compliance with
any or all of the performance standards of this section and the extent of
compliance required in such cases may be greater than that otherwise required
in this section, if deemed reasonably necessary to protect the public health,
safety, or welfare and to achieve the proposes of this section.
30.5 Point of Measurements:
Any light intensity measurement taken at the property line shall be measured at
the greatest point of illumination of said property line. Any measurements to
determine the minimum and maximum lighting levels internal to a site will be
measured by positioning the meter horizontally at ground level at the greatest
and least points of artificial illumination.
30.6 Applicability:
Modifications to the requirements of this section may be approved as part of a
final development plan for a planned development overlay district, pursuant to
the provisions provided:
30.6a That any deviations from lighting standards established by this section
are clearly delineated in the plan submission reviewed by the planning
commission and approved by the city council;
30.6b That any deviations are consistent with the purposes of this section.
30.6c That the minimum light level proposed provides a minimum of seventy five
percent (75%) of the illumination required in this section;
30.6d That the height of support poles above grade does not exceed the maximum
permitted by this section by more than twenty five percent (25%), except that
no development shall be allowed for increased support pole height within five
hundred (500) feet of a protected residential property; and
30.6e That no increase in glare occurs as a result of deviation from the
adopted standards. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XXXI. LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERYARDS
31.1 Site Plans:
If a building or parking lot permit is applied for and no zoning action is
required, an administrative site plan approval will still be required.
31.2 Site Plan Review:
An application for a building or parking lot permit shall promptly be forwarded
to the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator. Review must be completed
within fifteen (15) days of the receipt by the city of a complete site plan
review application. If, in the judgment of the Administrator, the site plan
review application does not contain sufficient information, the Administrator
may request additional information from the applicant. In that event, the
fifteen (15)-day period previously referred to shall be suspended, pending the
receipt of all information requested.
31.3 Appeal Process:
If the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator approves a site plan, a
building or parking permit may then be issued. If the Administrator does not
approve a site plan, the applicant may appeal this decision to the Board of
Zoning Appeals. A notice of appeal must be filed with the Administrator no
later than fifteen (15) days after receipt by the applicant of the decision.
31.4 Exemption from Site Plan Requirements:
One- and two-unit residences are exempt from site plan review requirements but
shall be required to have at least one (1) canopy tree installed following
construction. In addition, site plans shall not be required for renovation or
expansion of an existing structure or use unless access points would be changed
or a substantial increase in traffic to the site would be generated
31.5 General Landscape Design Guidelines:
31.5a Landscape improvements should serve to integrate and preserve to the
greatest extent possible existing vegetation, topography, and watercourses.
31.5b Landscape improvements should serve to enhance the appearance of the
site, especially as viewed from adjacent public right-of-ways. Effective year-
round screening shall be provided to lessen the visual prominence of: parking
lots, services yards, loading docks, public utility structures, and unsightly
appurtenances.
31.5c Sustainable and resilient landscape design that reduces irrigation
requirements, utilizes on-site storm water management, and mitigates the urban
heat island effect is encouraged.
31.5d The scale and nature of landscape materials and planting bed sizes should
be appropriate to the site and structures. Larger buildings may accommodate and
be enhanced by larger plant materials, plant groupings, and planting beds.
31.5e Proposed trees and other plantings should be selected with consideration
to their texture, form, color, repetition, massing, and variety. Wherever
appropriate, use of native plant materials should be used that are well adapted
to both the site and climate. Sun and shade tolerance should also be
considered.
31.5f Trees shall be mulched with shredded bark mulch to a minimum depth of
three inches (3") within a three-foot (3") radius. Mulch should not touch the
trunk and be arranged in a bowl shape around the tree. Groundcover plantings
shall be mulched to a minimum depth of one-inch (1") with a one-foot (1")
radius.
31.5g Landscaping shall be required around the perimeter of all retention and
detention basins from the normal water line to a minimum of six inches (6")
above the high-water line. Such landscaping shall primarily consist of native
prairie and emergent plantings, but may also include tree and shrub plantings,
in an arrangement that will create an aesthetically pleasing and ecologically
functional environment.
31.5h When fencing is used, landscaping should be provided that buffers,
softens, or minimizes the visual monotony of long expanses of fencing.
31.5i On multi-unit residential parcels with more than one structure, the open
space between dwellings units should be appropriately landscaped to provide
screening of adjacent dwelling units, screening and shading to improve energy
efficiency, and a visually appealing living environment. Open spaces should
also be functional and wherever possible include water management features
including but not limited to rain gardens, vegetated swales, or filter strips.
31.5j All landscaped areas shall be protected from vehicular encroachment by
curbs. Planting areas shall be maintained with a spaded edge, synthetic edging,
curbing, or other means to prevent erosion.
31.6 Parking Lots:
31.6a Permits for Off-Street Parking Lots: No person shall expand an existing
parking lot or construct a new parking lot of five (5) spaces or more without
having first obtained a written permit therefore, issued by the Planning and
Redevelopment Administrator. Prior to obtaining a permit for such expansion or
new construction, the applicant shall submit to a landscape/site plan as
required in the Zoning Ordinance and the Stormwater Ordinance, and plans
showing the construction specifications for all off-street parking lots and he
shall provide for proper inspection of construction.
31.6b Construction: All off-street parking lots required to obtain a permit as
identified in the above section shall be laid to the line and grade of, and
shall conform to surface thickness and other specifications of the City
Engineer or their designee.
31.6c Landscaping and Screening Requirements for Off-Street Parking Lots: The
provisions of this section for the installation and maintenance of landscaping
and screening requirements are intended to protect the character and stability
of residential, commercial, industrial and conservation areas, and to enhance
the aesthetic and visual image of the city.
   (1)   Basic Requirements for Lots of Five (5) or More Spaces:
 
                  Setbacks Perimeter Landscaping     Interior Landscaping
Front yard setback 10'                                Minimum 5% ground
Side yard setback  5'       Minimum 1 canopy tree for coverage of shrubs and
Rear yard setback  5'       every 5 spaces            evergreens/ conifers
 
   (2)   Front Yard Setback: Parking lots of five (5) or more spaces shall be
set back ten feet (10') from the front property line(s). Landscaping
requirements with the front yard(s) include that the yard be seeded or sodded
with lawn. In addition, one canopy tree for every five (5) parking spaces and a
minimum of five percent (5%) ground cover landscape coverage of shrubs and
evergreens/conifers and a three (3') wide portion of landscaping to provide
screening from parked cars shall be required.
   (3)   The ten-foot (10') front yard setback may be reduced to five feet (5')
if there is a continuous twenty-six inch (26") solid wall/fence or shrubbery
hedge provided. Sodding, canopy tree and ground cover landscape coverage
requirements will still be applied if a solid wall/fence is provided. Sodding
requirements will still be applied if a shrubbery fence is provided.
   (4)   Side/Rear Yard Setback: Parking lots of five (5) or more spaces shall
be setback five feet (5') from side and rear property lines. Landscaping
requirements within the side and rear yards include that the yard be seeded or
sodded with lawn. In addition, one canopy tree for every five (5) parking
spaces and a minimum of five percent (5%) ground landscape coverage of shrubs
and evergreens/conifers shall be required.
   (5)   When a side and/or rear yard is adjoining to a residential use, a
continuous six-foot (6') solid wall/fence or shrubbery hedge shall also be
provided with the five-foot (5') setback yard. If a six-foot (6') shrubbery
hedge is provided, canopy tree and ground landscape coverage shall not be
required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4083.png]
   (6)   Wherever landscaping and screening requirements may interfere with
traffic vision, the height and placement shall be determined by the City
Engineer. Landscaping and screening should maintain a driveway visibility
triangle. This triangle is created by measuring ten (10) feet along the back
edge of a public sidewalk from the point where the driveway and sidewalk meet.
Connecting these two lines with a diagonal line completes the triangle and
forms the driveway vision triangle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4085.png]
   (7)    Trees and other landscapin g shall be of a species which are hardy to
the area and have measured diameters of such identified in the Minimum
Standards for Plantings section of this appendix. Prohibited trees are
identified in Section 9 of this article.
   (8)   Subject to the approval of the Planning and Redevelopment
Administrator, alternate landscaping plans may be substituted for
consideration. Alternate plans must be determined to be of equal or greater
effectiveness in screening and aesthetic character.
   (9)   A landscape/site plan will be required to be submitted for staff
review prior to issuing a parking lot development permit for parking lots of
five (5) spaces or more. The following basic standards should be set:
      a.   Drawn to scale;
      b.    Identify location of landscaping or other features;
      c.   Specify nature of materials (i.e., species, variety, etc.);
      d.   Specify number of plants, shrubs, trees, etc., by species.
   (10)   Landscaping and screening must be maintained in good condition, free
of refuse and debris, and provide a healthy, neat and orderly appearance at
least equal to the original installation. It shall be the owner's
responsibility to see that the landscaping is maintained.
   (11)   An interior landscape island shall be required at both ends of all
rows of parking not abutting perimeter bufferyards. For every ten (10) parking
spots, an additional interior landscape island shall be required. Landscape
islands shall be evenly distributed throughout the site. Every landscape island
shall have a minimum of one (1) canopy tree.
   (12)   Appeal Process. If the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator
approves a site plan, a parking lot permit may then be issued. If the
Administrator does not approve a site plan, the applicant may appeal the staff
decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals. A notice of appeal must be filed with
the Administrator no later than fifteen (15) days after receipt by the
applicant.
31.7 Bufferyard Requirements:
31.7a Intent: The provisions of this section are to provide specific landscape
screening and bufferyard requirements to reduce the incompatibility between
zoning districts of different intensity and type. These bufferyards will lessen
the adverse impact of more intense land uses upon residential areas and/or
other areas of less intense use by reducing noise, visual and other
environmental impacts.
31.7b Requirements: In addition to landscaping and screening requirements for
off-street parking areas, bufferyard standards will also apply for site plans
requiring a zoning change, special use permit and non-exempt site plan review
requirements. The bufferyard requirement is determined by the difference
between the zoning district of the subject property and the zoning district of
adjoining properties. The specific requirements are identified in the following
sections and the accompanying table: "Schedule of Bufferyard Requirements."
Landscaping and screening requirements for off- street parking areas apply to
the side of the property adjoining a public street right-of-way.
31.7c Type A Buffer:
   (1)   The standard buffer within Type A is eight feet (8') wide and contains
the following number of required plants per one hundred feet (100'):
      a.   Two (2) canopy trees;
      b.   One (1) understory tree;
      c.   Twelve (12) shrubs;
      d.   One (1) evergreen/conifer.
   (2)   Depending on the space available, the applicant may choose one of
several alternative buffer widths to provide a Type A buffer, each with a
different number of required plantings reflected as a multiplier of the
required plant units per one hundred feet (100'). The alternatives include the
following:
      a.   Twenty-foot (20') wide buffer with fifty percent (50%) of the
required plant units per one hundred feet (100').
      b.   Sixteen-foot (16') wide buffer with sixty percent (60%) of the
required plant units per one hundred feet (100').
      c.   Twelve-foot (12') wide buffer with eighty percent (80%) of the
required plan units per one hundred feet (100').
      d.   Four-foot (4') wide buffer with ninety percent (90%) of the required
plant units and a continuous hedge set back three feet (3') from the property
line or fence.
   (3)   Example Image of A Buffer:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4075.png]
31.7d Type B Buffer:
   (1)   The standard buffer with Type B is ten feet (10') wide and contains
the following number of required plants per one hundred feet (100'):
      a,   Two (2) canopy trees;
      b.   Two (2) understory trees;
      c.   Twelve (12) shrubs;
      d.   Two (2) evergreens/confers.
   (2)   Depending on the space available, the applicant may choose one of
several alternative buffer widths to provide a Type B buffer, each with a
different number of required plantings. Type B buffer alternatives range from a
twenty-five foot (25') wide buffer with fifty percent (50%) of the required
plantings to a five-foot (5') wide buffer with ninety percent (90%) of the
required plantings and a continuous hedge or fence.
   (3)   Example Image of B Buffer:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4077.png]
31.7e Type C Buffer:
   (1)   The standard buffer within Type C is fifteen feet (15') wide and
contains the following number of required plantings per one hundred feet
(100'):
      a.   Three (3) canopy trees;
      b.   Two (2) understory trees;
      c.   Eighteen (18) shrubs;
      d.   Four (4) evergreens/conifers.
   (2)   Depending on the space available, the applicant may choose one of
several alternative buffer widths to provide a Type C buffer, each with a
different number of required plantings. Type C buffer alternatives range from a
twenty-five foot (25') wide buffer with sixty percent (60%) of the required
plantings to a six-foot (6') wide buffer with ninety percent (90%) of the
required plantings and a continuous fence.
   (3)   Example Image of C Buffer:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4079.png]
31.7f Type D Buffer:
   (1)   The standard buffer within Type D is fifteen feet (15') wide and
contains the following number of required plants per one hundred feet (100'):
      a.   Three (3) canopy trees;
      b.   Two (2) understory trees;
      c.   Twenty four (24) shrubs;
      d.   Five (5) evergreens/conifers.
   (2)   Depending on the space available, the applicant may choose one of
several alternative buffer widths to provide a Type D buffer, each with a
different number of required plantings. Type D buffer alternatives range from a
twenty-five foot (25') wide buffer with sixty percent of the required plantings
to an eight-foot (8') wide buffer with ninety percent (90%) of the required
plantings and a continuous fence.
   (3)   Example Image of D Buffer:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1da61f01bee10dbd0979d8f82006f7b2d7e9ac05/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4081.png]
31.8 Minimum Standards for Plantings:
31.8a Canopy Trees: Two inches (3") diameter, six inches (6") above ground
level, and ten feet (10') in height when planted.
31.8b Understory Tree: One-inch (2") diameter, six inches (6") above ground
level, and eight feet (8') in height when planted.
31.8c Shrubs: Twenty-four inches (24") in height when planted; forty percent
(40%) or more must reach a mature height of six feet (6') or more. Shrubs
should be of varying sizes, with smaller shrubs planted on the perimeter and
taller shrubs behind.
31.8d Evergreens/Conifers: Two inches (2") in diameter, six inches (6") above
ground level, and six feet (6') in height when planted. Twenty feet (20')
minimum height at maturity.
31.9 Tree and Plant Selection:
Existing trees and plant materials shall always be preserved during site
development or redevelopment to the greatest extent possible. New trees and
plant materials shall be selected for their suitability to both the site and
climate. Native trees and plant materials are always to be preferred over non-
native. No one genus of tree or plant may make up more than twenty-five percent
(25%) of the total on site with the exception of sites where fewer than four
(4) trees are required. Any species identified by the State of Illinois as
noxious, injurious, invasive, or exotic is expressly prohibited in all cases.
The following species and genus are also expressly prohibited in all cases.
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name          Scientific Name
Amur Maple           Acer ginnala
Ash                  Fraxinus
Black Alder          Alnus glutinosa
Black Locust         Robinia pseudoacacia
Box Elder            Acer negundo
Callery Pear         Pyrus calleryana
European White Birch Betula pendula
Ginkgo (Female)      Ginkgo biloba (Female)
Hawthorn             Crataegus
Hedge Maple          Acer campestre
Mulberry             Morus
Norway Maple         Acer platanoides
Pin Oak              Quercus palustris
Poplar               Populus
Purple-Leaf Plum     Prunus cerasifera
Russian Olive        Elaeagnus angustifolia
Siberian Elm         Ulmus pumila
Silver Maple         Acer saccharinum
Sweet Gum            Liquidambar styraciflua
Tree of Heaven       Ailanthus altissima
Willow               Salix
 
31.10 Maintenance of Landscaping and Screening:
Bufferyard landscaping and screening must be maintained in good condition, free
of refuse and debris and provide a healthy, neat and orderly appearance at
least equal to the original installation. It shall be the owner's
responsibility to see that the landscaping is maintained.
31.11 Schedule of Bufferyard Requirements:
Adjacent Property
Adjacent Property
                     R-1 R-3
                   R-2 R-4 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 O-1 O-2 I-1 I-2 C-1 C-2 U-1
                         R-5
                 R-1 N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
                 R-2
                 R-3
                 R-4 A   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   B   B   N
                 R-5
                 B-1 B   A   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   B   B   N
                 B-2 C   B   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   B   B   N
Subject Property B-3 C   B   N   N   N   N   C   C   N   N   B   B   N
                 B-4 C   C   N   N   N   N   C   C   N   N   B   B   A
                 O-1 A   A   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   B   B   N
                 O-2 D   D   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   B   B   N
                 I-1 C   C   B   A   N   N   D   C   N   N   C   C   B
                 I-2 D   D   B   A   A   A   D   C   N   N   D   D   C
                 C-1 N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
                 C-2 A   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
                 U-1 C   C   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   B   B   N
 
31.11a Approximate Bufferyard Requirement:
 
A Eight feet (8') in width.
B Ten feet (10') in width.
C Fifteen feet (15') in width.
D Fifteen feet (15') in width.
N No buffer required.
 
31.11b Position of property adjoining public right-of-way is governed by
landscaping for parking lot requirements.
31.12 Appeal Process:
If the Planning and Redevelopment Administrator approves a site plan, a
building permit may then be issued. If the Planning and Redevelopment
Administrator does not approve a site plan, the applicant may appeal this
decision to the Planning Commission. A notice of appeal must be filed with the
Planning and Redevelopment Administrator or designee no later than fifteen (15)
days after receipt by the applicant. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
ARTICLE XXXII. VALIDITY AND REPEAL
Should any section, subsection, clause or provision of this Appendix be
declared by the courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of
this Appendix as a whole or any part thereof, other than that which is so
declared to be invalid. All other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
with the provisions of this Appendix are hereby repealed. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-
21-2020)
ARTICLE XXXIII. WHEN EFFECTIVE
This article shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law. (Ord. 070-2020, 12-21-2020)
APPENDIX B
SUBDIVISIONS 1
 
Notes
  See also administration,
  chapter 2
   of this code; planning and development, chapter 11 of this code; public works,
1 streets and sidewalks,
  chapter 13 of this code; utilities,
  chapter 16 of this code; mobile home parks, §
  7-81 et seq. of this code; extension of water lines to new subdivisions, §
  16-53 of this code.
  See also administration,
  chapter 2
   of this code; planning and development, chapter 11 of this code; public works,
2 streets and sidewalks,
  chapter 13 of this code; utilities,
  chapter 16 of this code; mobile home parks, §
  7-81 et seq. of this code; extension of water lines to new subdivisions, § 16-
  53 of this code.
3 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8.
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1-1. Purpose.
In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 through 5/11-12-12, 765 ILCS
205/0.01 et seq.) this ordinance regulates the subdivision and development of
land in order to implement the City of Rock Island comprehensive plan and
official map. Thus this ordinance assists in achieving the following specific
objectives:
(a)   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and welfare;
(b)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly layout
and use of land; and to create an environment conducive to the productive
development of the city;
(c)   To avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land be
properly monumented and recorded;
(d)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements, and buildings;
(e)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography to the maximum feasible
extent;
(f)   To provide adequate light, air, and privacy for all residents of new
developments by preventing undue concentration of population;
(g)   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution, flooding,
stormwater runoff, or erosion and sedimentation;
(h)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to avoid
traffic congestion by requiring the proper location, design, and construction
of streets and sidewalks;
(i)   To reduce the cost of installing and maintaining adequate water mains,
sanitary sewers, stormwater sewers, and other utilities and services; and
(j)   To ensure that adequate parks, schools, and similar facilities can be
made available to serve the residents of new developments; [and]
(k)   [To] provide for the acceptance of lands for public rights-of-way.
Section 1-2. Jurisdiction.
This ordinance shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the City of
Rock Island and within all unincorporated territory located within one and one-
half (1.5) miles of said limits, provided such territory is not located within
the subdivision jurisdiction for another municipality. (See 65 ILCS 5/11-2-
9 for state requirements concerning jurisdictional boundary lines.)
Section 1-3. Interpretation.
Every provision of this ordinance shall be construed liberally to achieve the
purposes outlined in section 1-1.
Section 1-3.1. More Restrictive Requirements Apply.
Whenever the requirements of this ordinance differ from those of any statute,
lawfully adopted ordinance or regulation, easement, covenant, or deed
restriction, the more stringent requirement shall prevail. Thus, in accordance
with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-12-11), whenever this ordinance imposes higher
standards than the county subdivision ordinance, said higher standards shall
supersede the county regulations in the unincorporated territory located within
the City of Rock Island's subdivision jurisdiction.
This ordinance is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, deed
restriction, or any other private agreement or restriction; provided, that,
where the provisions of this ordinance are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, deed restriction, or
other private agreement or restriction, the provisions of this ordinance shall
govern. Where the provisions of the easement, covenant, deed restriction, or
private agreement or restriction impose duties and obligations more
restrictive, or higher standards than the requirements of this ordinance or the
determinations of the city in approving a subdivision or in enforcing this
ordinance, and such private provisions are not inconsistent with this ordinance
or determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be operative
and supplemental to this ordinance and determinations made thereunder. The city
does not purport to enforce any such private provisions not reflected on the
plat and its supporting documents and unless there is expressed in the nature
of the document and the approval process an intent to give the city enforcement
rights over same.
Section 1-4. Disclaimer of Liability
(a)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no officer,
board member, agent, or employee of the City of Rock Island shall render
himself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties
under this ordinance. (See "Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort
Immunity Act," 745 ILCS 10/1-101.)
(b)   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent, or employee of
the City of Rock Island, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his duties under this ordinance, shall be defended by the city
attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
Section 1-5. Variances
When the subdivider can show that a provision of this ordinance, if strictly
adhered to, would cause unnecessary hardship and when, in the opinion of the
city plan commission, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to
the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such
provision, the city plan commission may recommend a variance or modification to
the council. The subdivider shall apply in writing for such variance or
modification of the action. Any variance or modification thus authorized shall
be attached to and made a part of the final plat.
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
Section 2-1. Construction of Terms.
In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this ordinance, the
following rules shall be observed:
(a)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in section 2-2; terms not
defined in section 2-2 shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Rock Island [Appendix A]; if any term is
not defined either in section 2-2 or in the Zoning Ordinance, said term shall
have its standard English dictionary meaning.
(b)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
(c)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
(d)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
(e)   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is discretionary.
(f)   Captions (i.e., titles of sections, subsections, etc.) are intended
merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the substantive
application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
(g)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all subsections within
that section; but a reference to a particular subsection designates only that
subsection.
(h)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
Section 2-2. Selected Definitions.
Administrator: The official appointed to administer this Land Subdivision
Ordinance, or his duly authorized representative.
Alley: A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street.
Amendment: A change in the provisions of this ordinance, properly effected in
accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
Area Gross: The entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed for
subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved for
street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
Block: An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers, or ways
(except alleys, pedestrian ways, or exterior boundaries of a subdivision unless
exterior boundary is a street, highway, or way) or bounded by a combination of
streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or
corporate boundary lines.
Centerline Offset: The distance between the centerlines of two (2) roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both said
"parallel" streets intersect.
Collector Street: A street used primarily to collect limited amounts of
residential traffic and for access to abutting properties, and on which the
speed limit is low and traffic volume is minimal.
Comprehensive Plan: The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the city council
to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of the City of
Rock island. The comprehensive plan includes, but is not limited to, plans and
programs regarding the location, character, and extent of highways, bridges,
public buildings or uses, utilities, schools, residential, commercial or
industrial land uses, parks, drainage facilities, etc.
Cross-Slope: The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way rather
than in the direction traffic moves on said right-of-way.
Cul-de-Sac: A street having only one (1) outlet for vehicular traffic and
having the other end permanently terminated by a turnaround for vehicles; the
term may also be used to refer solely to said turnaround.
Curb and Gutter Integral: The rim forming the edge of a street plus the channel
for leading off surface water, constructed of poured concrete as a single
facility.
Dedicate: To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land, or
improvement to the City of Rock Island or other public entity without
compensation.
Develop: To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
District, Zoning: A portion of the territory of the City of Rock Island wherein
certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots, and uses under the terms of the Zoning Ordinance [Appendix
A].
Easement: A right to use a portion of another person's real property for
certain limited purposes.
Erosion: Tide wearing away of the land surface by the action of wind, water or
gravity.
Escrow Deposit: A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure the
completion of improvements within a subdivision.
Frontage: The boundary of a lot along a public street.
Frontage Road: A minor street fronting on an arterial street or highway
(usually a limited-access highway), used for access to abutting lots.
Grade: The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way, expressed as a
percentage. Synonym for "slope."
Improvement Plans: The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the structures and facilities to be installed in, or
in conjunction with, a subdivision.
Improvements: Any street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, drainage ditch, sewer,
catch basin, newly planted tree, off-street parking area, or other facility
necessary for the general use of property owners in a subdivision.
Intersection: The point at which two (2) or more public rights-of-way
(generally streets) meet.
Local Street: A street serving limited amounts of residential traffic, and used
for access to abutting property.
Lot: A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate or
future) of development or transfer of ownership. A "lot" may or may not
coincide with a "lot of record."
Lot Area: The area of a horizontal plan bounded by the front, side, and rear
lines of a lot.
Lot, Corner: A lot having at least two (2) adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets.
Lot of Record: An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Rock Island County, Illinois, in
accordance with state law.
Lot, Through: A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that abut
two (2) approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines.
Maintenance Bond: A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by the
City of Rock Island, guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of installed
improvements for the two-year period following their dedication.
Marginal-Access Street: A local dead-end street providing access to ten (10) or
fewer dwelling units.
Minor Arterial Street: A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and
which may or may not be continuous.
Official Map: The official map may show indication of sites for planned public
facilities. Public facility sites which may be indicated on the official map
may include but are not limited to: sites for new trafficways or widening of
existing trafficways; school sites; public building sites; and sites for future
storm drainage, electrical or other public service or utility easements.
Performance Bond: A surety bond posted by the developer and approved by the
City of Rock Island, guaranteeing the installation of required improvements
within, or in conjunction with, a subdivision.
Plat, Dedication: A plat required for the dedication to the city of all right-
of-way easements, and public improvements outside of a subdivision plat or
within a special use classification.
Plat, Final: The subdivider's plan and supporting documentation of the
subdivision which, if approved, may be filed with the Rock island County
Recorder of Deeds.
Plat, Preliminary: Preliminary engineering maps, drawings, and supportive
material indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision.
Prefiling Conference: A conference held between the developer and appropriate
city staff prior to submission of a preliminary or final plat.
Principal Arterial Street: A street designed or utilized primarily for high
vehicular speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with
intersections at grade, and on which traffic-control devices are used to
expedite the safe movement of through traffic.
Reserve: To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition by
the City of Rock Island (or other government entity) for public purposes.
Right-of-Way, Public: A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has dedicated
to the City of Rock Island or other unit of government for streets, alleys, and
other public improvements.
Sediment: Solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension, is
being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, or
gravity as a product of erosion.
Setback, Front: The horizontal distance between the street right-of-way line
and the building line. Minimum setback requirements are set forth in the Zoning
Ordinance [Appendix A].
Sewerage System, Private: A sewer system including collection and treatment
facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in an
outlying area.
Sidewalk: A pedestrian way constructed in compliance with the standards of this
ordinance.
Soil: All unconsolidated mineral and organic material of whatever origin that
overlies bedrock which can be readily excavated.
Stop Order: An order used by the administrator to halt work-in-progress that is
in violation of this ordinance.
Street: A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term "street"
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or way for pedestrian use only.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are structures
but not all structures are buildings.
Stub Street: A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is planned for
future continuation.
Subdivider: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate or
other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide
land in a manner that constitutes a subdivision as defined in this article.
Subdivision: Any division of land into two (2) or more lots, any of which is
less than five (5) acres, or any transfer involving an easement of ingress or
egress, except as set forth in the Plats Act, 765 ILCS 205/1.
Subdivision, Minor: A division of land into two (2) but not more than five (5)
lots, all of which front upon an existing street, and not involving any new
streets, other rights-of-way, easements, improvements, or other provisions for
public areas and facilities.
Topography: The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
Utility: A business or service which is engaged in regularly supplying the
public with some commodity or service which is of consequence and need and
which has a duty to serve without discrimination all within its service area. A
utility can be publicly or privately owned and includes, without limitation,
the following services or commodities:
         1.   Electricity;
         2.   Gas, oil, or steam;
         3.   Water;
         4.   Sanitary sewerage;
         5.   Storm sewerage;
         6.   Telephone or telegraph;
         7.   Cable television and other communication lines;
         8.   Transportation lines, such as fixed rail, but only if expressly
stated.
Vacate: To terminate the legal existence of right-of-way or subdivision or
portion thereof, and to so note on the final plat recorded with the Rock Island
County Recorder of Deeds (765 ILCS 205/6 through 205/8).
Variance, Subdivision: A relaxation in the strict application of the design and
improvement standards set forth in this ordinance.
ARTICLE III. DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
Section 3-1. Applicability of Article.
No land within the subdivision jurisdiction of the City of Rock Island other
than land that is specifically exempted from the requirements of the Illinois
Plats Act (765 ILCS 205/1(b)) shall be subdivided or developed except in
compliance with the regulations of this article and the applicable provisions
of state law. (See 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8; 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.). No lot in any
subdivision shall be conveyed until:
(a)   The final plat of said subdivision has been approved by the city council
and recorded in the office of the Rock Island County Recorder of Deeds; and
(b)   The portion of said subdivision in which the lot is located has been
improved in accordance with the requirements of this article or until a
performance bond or other security has been posted to assure the completion of
such improvements.
A building permit shall not be issued for any lot conveyed in violation of this
section.
Section 3-2. Suitability for Subdivision Generally.
Land that is unsuitable for development due to flooding, poor drainage, rough
topography, adverse soil conditions, or other features which will be harmful to
the health, safety, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the subdivision
and/or its surrounding areas shall not be subdivided or developed unless the
subdivider/developer formulates adequate plans/methods to solve the problems
caused by the adverse land conditions.
Section 3-3. Lot Requirements.
All lots in a subdivision shall conform to the minimum lot area and dimensions
requirements of the zoning district in which said subdivision is located; land
that is under water or proposed for street improvements shall not be counted to
satisfy these minimum requirements. Every corner and through lot shall be large
enough to permit compliance with the district's front setback requirements on
every side of the lot that faces a street. All lot remnants shall be added to
adjacent lots to avoid the creation of unbuildable parcels.
Section 3-3.1. Access and Relationship to Street.
Land shall be subdivided in such a way that each lot abuts a street meeting the
requirements of section 3-5. All side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street right-of-way lines or radial to curved street right-of-way
lines except where a deviation from this rule will provide a better street and
lot design.
Section 3-4. Permanent Reference Monuments.
Sec. 3-4.1. Materials, Size, and Location.
(a)   Concrete cylinders or rectangular prisms, not less than four (4) inches
in diameter or square and forty-two (42) inches long, shall be set at the
extreme corners of subdivisions,
(b)   Steel pins, not less than one-half (0.5) of an inch in diameter and
thirty (30) inches long, with a survey marker cap showing the land surveyor's
registration number, shall be set at locations in accordance with the Plat Act,
Sec. 3-4.2. Resetting Monuments.
Any monuments disturbed by construction or grading shall be reset.
Section 3-5. Street Design Standards.
All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed street
system indicated in the municipal comprehensive plan and official map, and
shall meet the specifications set forth in tabular form below. For divided
boulevards, the developer shall submit an acceptable plan for maintenance to
the city planning commission.
Table of Street Design Specifications
               Permitted On-  Required Right- Required        Maximum/ Minimum
Type of Street Street Parking of-Way          Pavement Width  Grades
                                              (B-B)
                Permitted On-  Required Right- Required        Maximum/ Minimum
Type of Street  Street Parking of-Way          Pavement Width  Grades
                                               (B-B)
Alley           None           20 ft.          18 ft.          Maximum: 10%
                                                               Minimum: 0.5%
Marginal-Access None           50 ft.          20 ft.          Maximum: 10%
                                                               Minimum: 0.5%
Local           One side       50 ft.          27 ft.          Maximum: 10%
Street          Two sides      50 ft.          31 ft.          Minimum: 0.5%
Collectors      Both sides     60 ft.          40 ft.          Maximum: 10%
                                                               Minimum: 0.5%
Minor Arterials None           80 ft.          11 ft. lanes    Maximum: 5%
                                                               Minimum: 0.5%
Principal       None           100 ft.         12 ft. lanes    Maximum: 5%
Arterials                                                      Minimum: 0.5%
Divided         None           70 ft.          14 ft.          Maximum: 10%
Boulevard                                                   Minimum: 0.5%
 
Sec. 3-5.1. Horizontal Curvatures.
All changes in horizontal alignment shall be conducted with a horizontal curve
with the following minimum centerline radius, designated "R":
(A)   For principal, minor and collector streets (design speed = 35 mph), R
shall equal five hundred (500) feet;
(B)   For local streets (design speed = 30 mph), R shall equal one hundred
twenty-five (125) feet; and
(C)   For alleys, R shall equal one hundred (100) feet.
Sec. 3-5.2. Through Traffic Discouraged.
Marginal-access and local streets shall be laid out so as to discourage use by
through traffic. The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern should be
avoided, and the use of curvilinear streets, culs-de-sac, or U-shaped streets,
shall be encouraged to effect a more desirable street layout.
Sec. 3-5.3. Limited Access to Arterials.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial street,
the planning commission may recommend to the city council that access to said
arterial may be limited by one of the following means:
(A)   The subdivision of lots so that they back onto the arterial street and
front onto a parallel local street (double-frontage lots), coupled with the
installation of screening in a reserve (access-restricting) strip along the
rear lot lines of such lots;
(B)   A series of culs-de-sac, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered from
and generally at right angles to the arterial street; or
(C)   A frontage road separated from the arterial street by a planting strip,
but having access thereto at suitable points.
Sec. 3-5.4. Dead-End Streets.
(A)   Temporary stub streets: Streets shall be so arranged to provide for the
continuation of streets between adjacent properties when such continuation is
necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire and police
protection, and efficient provision of utilities, and where such continuation
comports with the municipal comprehensive plan. If the adjacent property is
owned by the developer (under the same ownership) and undeveloped and the
street must dead end temporarily, the right-of-way shall be extended to the
property line, and no strip that would prevent connections with future streets
shall be reserved. A temporary turnaround shall be provided at the terminus of
any temporary dead-end street. If the adjacent property is under another
ownership there should be a permanent dead end.
(B)   Permanent dead-end streets: Culs-de-sac shall have a maximum length of
seven hundred fifty (750) feet. A cul-de-sac turnaround, having a minimum
right-of-way diameter of ninety-eight (98) feet, a minimum pavement return
radius of twenty-five (25) feet, and a pavement diameter of seventy-five (75)
feet, shall be provided at the end of every permanent dead-end street.
Sec. 3-5.5. Alleys.
Alleys shall be prohibited in single-family residence districts. Alleys may be
required in multiple-family districts and in commercial industrial districts
unless other adequate provisions for service access are made. Adequate
vehicular turnaround space shall be provided at the terminus of any dead-end
alley.
Sec. 3-5.6. Intersections.
(A)   Only two streets: Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any
one (1) point.
(B)   Right angles: Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles; in no case shall two (2) streets intersect at an
angle of less that eighty (80) degrees or more than one hundred (100) degrees.
An oblique street shall be curved approaching an intersection and shall be
approximately at right angles with said intersection for at least one hundred
(100) feet therefrom.
(C)   Alignment: Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing
street shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on
the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less
than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall not be permitted, except where
the intersected street has divided lanes without median breaks at either
intersection. Intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall be at
least eight hundred (800) feet apart.
(D)   Curb Radii: To permit safe vehicular movement at corners, the minimum
curb radius at the intersection of two (2) streets shall be fifteen (15) feet
where both streets are marginal access or local and at other intersections, not
less than twenty-five (25) feet.
(E)   Grade: Intersections shall be designed with a minimum grade of one-half
of one (0.5). In hilly terrain, an area having not greater than a two (2)
percent slope for a distance of sixty (60) feet from the nearest right-of-way
line of the intersecting street shall be provided at the approach to an
intersection.
(F)   Cross-Slope: The cross slopes of all streets, including intersections,
shall not exceed three (3) percent.
(G)   Adequate sight lines: where any street intersection will involve earth
banks or existing vegetation, the developer shall cut such ground and/or
vegetation (including trees) in connection with the grading of the public
right-of-way to the extent necessary to provide adequate sight distance in
accordance with the following chart:
30 mph: 130 feet each way from intersection.
35 mph: 155 feet each way from intersection.
For design speeds exceeding 35 mph, sight distance will be determined based
upon AASHTO criteria.
Sec. 3-5.7. Reverse Curves.
A tangent at least fifty (50) feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on local streets and one hundred (100) feet long on collector streets.
Sec. 3-5.8. Road Dedications and Reservations and Improvements to Existing
Streets.
(A)   New perimeter streets: Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid
out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets. Where an existing
half street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street
shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The planning commission may
authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates
the entire required street right-of-way width within his own subdivision
boundaries.
(B)   Existing roads: Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow road or
when the comprehensive plan, official map, or zoning setback regulations
indicate plans for realignment or widening a road that would require use of
some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve
and dedicate at his expense such areas for widening or realignment of such
roads as are specifically and uniquely attributable to his subdivision and to
reserve for public use any portion of the right-of-way determined not to be
specifically and uniquely attributable to his subdivision.
(C)   Excess right-of-way: Right-of-way in excess of the standards set forth in
the Table of Street Design Specifications shall be required to be dedicated
when:
   (1)   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide adequate
earth slopes; or
   (2)   Due to the location of railroad tracks, additional width is needed to
construct overpasses, underpasses, and approaches thereto.
(D)   "Specifically and uniquely attributable" defined. For purposes of this
section, the phrase "specifically and uniquely attributable" shall mean as a
minimum that areas currently zoned or to be zoned single-family for residential
uses in the comprehensive plan shall require marginal access, local, or
collector streets, depending on density; that areas currently zoned or to be
zoned for multifamily residential uses in the comprehensive plan shall require
local, boulevard, collector, minor arterial, or principal arterial streets,
depending on density; that areas currently zoned or to be zoned for commercial
uses in the comprehensive plan shall require local, collector, minor arterial,
or principal arterial streets, depending on whether same is a neighborhood,
community, or regional area; and that areas currently zoned or to be zoned for
industrial uses in the comprehensive plan shall require collector, minor
arterial, or principal arterial streets, depending on the size of the
industrial area.
Section 3-6. Street Improvement Standards.
All new streets shall be graded, curbed, and surfaced in accordance with the
standards of Illinois Department of Transportation and the provisions of the
subsections below.
Sec. 3-6.1. Curb and Gutter.
All streets shall be bounded by concrete curbs and gutters.
Sec. 3-6.2. Pavement.
All streets and alleys shall be paved in accordance with the minimum standards
as indicated below:
(A)   Alleys:
         1.   Six-inch-thick non-reinforced concrete.
(B)   Marginal-access, local:
         1.   Six-inch-thick reinforced portland cement concrete pavement; or
         2.   Seven-inch-thick non-reinforced portland cement concrete; or
         3.   Asphaltic concrete construction meeting department of
transportation specifications and satisfactorily meeting the city engineer's
specifications.
(C)   Collector, Minor Arterial:
         1.   Seven-inch-thick reinforced portland cement concrete: or
         2.   Eight-inch-thick non-reinforced portland cement concrete; or
         3.   Asphaltic concrete construction meeting department of
transportation specifications and satisfactorily meeting the city engineer's
specifications.
(D)   Principal arterial:
         1.   Eight-inch-thick reinforced portland cement concrete; or
         2.   Nine-inch-thick non-reinforced portland cement concrete; or
         3.   Asphaltic concrete construction meeting department of
transportation specifications and satisfactorily meeting the city engineer's
specifications.
The above thickness requirements shall be increased if traffic volume, subgrade
or other conditions show justifications for increased thickness. A subbase or
base shall be constructed in accordance with the appropriate articles of the
standard specifications when required by the city engineer. A subbase or base
with an underdrain system may be required in areas where a combination or
proposed street grade and soil type may lead to subgrade erosion and pavement
undermining. The city may require additional engineering documentation to
establish that the above standards are appropriate for the reasons stated in
this paragraph.
Pavements shall be constructed in accordance with these standard specifications
and in conformity with the lines, dimensions and grades shown on the plans and
to the form and dimensions shown on the detail drawings included with and being
part of these specifications.
Section 3-7. Blocks.
(A)   Block Width: Blocks shall be sufficiently wide to accommodate two (2)
tiers of lots having the minimum depth required by the zoning district
regulations; provided, that this requirement may be waived in blocks adjacent
to local collector or collector streets, railroads, or watercourses.
(B)   Block Length: No block shall be longer than one thousand (1,000) feet nor
shorter than three hundred (300) feet.
Section 3-8. Sidewalks.
Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of all streets. Sidewalks shall be
installed at the time the lot is developed or prior to issuance of the
occupancy permit.
Sec. 3-8.1. Sidewalk Construction Standards.
(A)   Relationship to curb: Sidewalks shall be located one (1) foot inside the
right-of-way line or on a line to be given by the city engineer when it is
impossible or not feasible to build or construct the same as aforesaid.
(B)   Width: Sidewalks shall be at least four (4) feet wide.
(C)   Thickness of concrete: All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete at
least four (4) inches thick, except that across driveways the thickness shall
be increased to six (6) inches.
(D)   Grade: No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than ten (10)
percent.
(E)   Ramps at intersections: Curbs shall be cut and sidewalks shall be ramped
at all intersection so as to enhance the mobility of handicapped individuals.
Ramps shall equal or exceed the standards of the Illinois Capital Development
Board.
Section 3-9. Utilities.
All utilities provided as new installations within a subdivision shall be
placed in the right-of-way or in easements, and shall be provided underground,
unless an exception or exemption has been granted.
Sec. 3-9.1. Responsibility.
For all major subdivisions, the subdivider shall make the necessary
arrangements with the appropriate utility companies for the proper installation
of utilities to assure that all lots have adequate gas, electrical, and
communications service.
Sec. 3-9.2. Requirements.
All underground electric distribution circuits installed by the utility company
within the city shall be installed in accordance with the Safety Rules for the
Installation and Maintenance of Electric Supply and Communication Lines, U.S.
Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards, and General Order No.
160, Rules for Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines, Illinois
Commerce Commission.
Sec. 3-9.3. Enforcement.
The building inspector shall not issue any occupancy permits until all
utilities have been installed in the subdivision.
Sec. 3-9.4. Exceptions.
The requirements for underground utilities shall not apply in the following
instances:
(A)   Principal electric distribution feeder circuits and electric transmission
circuits shall not be required to be installed underground.
(B)   Any service which is considered by the utility company to be unfeasible
for undergrounding, due to high voltage or inordinately high and unjustified
cost, may be provided overhead when authorized by the city council.
(C)   When topographic or soil conditions cause the cost of undergrounding to
be extremely and unjustifiably high, services may be provided overhead when
authorized by the city council.
(D)   When a subdivision is developed adjacent to or abutting an existing
development in which the primary feeder lines have been installed overhead, the
new subdivision may use the overhead lines with the following provisions:
         1.   The service lines to the buildings in the new subdivision shall
be installed underground.
         2.   All additional necessary feeder lines shall be installed
underground.
(E)   When a building is constructed on a single unoccupied lot in an area
which is fully developed with overhead electric and communication service, the
building may use the overhead service line if it completes the development of
the area.
(F)   Utilities provided as new installations to lots for industrial purposes
may be provided overhead.
Sec. 3-9.5. Exemptions. The following specific facilities shall be exempt from
the requirements of the [this] ordinance:
(A)   Poles used exclusively for street lighting.
(B)   Poles, overhead lines, and associated overhead structures, authorized by
the city council, crossing or entering any portion of a district from which
overhead wires have been prohibited, and originating in an area in which
overhead wires are allowed.
(C)   Overhead lines attached to the exterior of a building by means of a
bracket or similar device, and extending from one location on the building to
another on the same building, or to an adjacent building without crossing any
public street or right-of-way.
(D)   Radio antenna and associated structures and equipment used for furnishing
communication service.
(E)   Service terminals and necessary pad-mounted electric equipment installed
above ground, used to distribute communication and electric service in
underground systems.
Section 3-10. Water Facilities.
(A)   Every subdivision shall be provided with a complete water distribution
system adequate to serve all lots within the subdivision. The water
distribution system shall be designed according to standard specifications and
shall be approved by the city engineer and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency. Whenever a water main is extended it shall be extended
across the entire frontage of the property being subdivided and it shall be
connected to any other mains which front on or are adjacent to the subdivision
to provide for looping of the water system.
(B)   The engineer for the subdivider shall calculate the expected fire flow
requirement within the subdivision based upon the intended zoning and expected
land use in accordance with the Uniform Fire Code, latest adopted edition. Also
taken into consideration when determining the size of pipe to be installed
shall be the anticipated demand for water by downstream properties based on
anticipated development of such properties based on the comprehensive plan for
such expansion areas.
(C)   Individual service connections within single-family residential
subdivisions shall be extended from the main to within one (1) foot of the lot
line of each lot with an approved corporation and curb box and clearly marked
with a fence post or similar material to facilitate their locations.
(D)   Upon written request to the city engineer, the city will perform fire
flow tests on the existing water mains to be extended and provide the data to
the subdivider's engineer.
Sec. 3-10.1. Fire Hydrants.
Fire hydrants of the type approved by the city engineer shall be installed
according to standard engineering practices and shall be placed at intervals of
not more than three hundred (300) feet.
Section 3-11. Sanitary sewers.
All proposed sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the regulations of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and must be approved by the ACO.
Sec. 3-11.1. When Public System Available.
(A)   Whenever the subdivision any point of which is within three hundred (300)
feet of an existing publicly owned sewer main or other collection system and
who have the right to extend public sewer mains or private sewer laterals from
said property to said existing publicly owned sewer main or other collection
system either by way of street, alley, public way, public easement, or private
easement, the subdivider shall construct sewer mains, where technically
feasible, which shall be connected to such public sewer and shall provide sewer
to all lots within the subdivision.
(B)   All sewer main construction shall be done according to standard
engineering practices.
(C)   Whenever a sanitary sewer system is extended it shall be extended across
the entire frontage or frontages of the property to be improved by the
extension unless the city has determined, because of land contours or the
presence of other mains, that no other property can be technically or needs to
be served by such an extension.
Sec. 3-11.2. Interim Disposal Systems.
Where a sanitary sewer cannot be extended as required by section 3-11.1, the
developer shall construct a sanitary sewer system to serve all lots within the
subdivision and shall provide sewage treatment by means of an approved sewage
treatment plant which shall be operated and maintained by the developer until
such time as the system can be connected to the publicly owned system. Said
system shall be temporarily capped. Where the land covered by the preliminary
plat contains not more than ten (10) lots, individual sewage disposal systems
may be used and must be installed according to applicable laws and regulations
of the appropriate approving agency.
Section 3-12. Easements.
Sec. 3-12.1. Utility Easements.
Easements at least ten (10) feet wide shall be provided for public and private
utilities along the front right-of-way lines of the public streets. Easements
located elsewhere shall be at least twenty (20) feet wide; and if along lot
lines, they shall be centered on the lot lines.
Sec. 3-12.2. Drainage Easements.
Adequate easements for stormwater drainage shall be established along any
natural drainage channel and in any other locations where necessary to provide
satisfactory disposal of stormwater from streets, alleys, and all other
portions of the subdivision. The precise location and minimum widths of said
easements shall be determined by the municipal engineer.
Section 3-13. Drainage and Storm Sewers.
The planning commission shall not recommend the approval of plat unless the
city engineer determines that the proposed provisions for stormwater drainage
are adequate within boundaries of the subdivision. Drainage improvements in the
subdivision shall be coordinated with existing and planned drainage
improvements elsewhere so as to form an integrated city system. The stormwater
drainage system shall be separate and independent of the sanitary sewer system
and shall meet the following design criteria:
(A)   Principal and minor arterial streets:
   (1)   Flow from a ten-year storm shall not inundate the center twenty (20)
feet of the pavement.
   (2)   Flow from a fifty-year storm shall be carried without damage to any
building.
(B)   Collector streets:
   (1)   Flow from a ten-year storm shall not inundate the center ten (10) feet
of the pavement.
   (2)   Flow from a fifty-year storm shall be carried without damage to any
building.
(C)   Local streets:
   (1)   Flow from a ten-year storm shall not top the curb.
   (2)   Flow from a fifty-year storm shall be carried without damage to any
building.
Sec. 3-13.1. Catch Basins or Inlets.
Catch basins or inlets, if required, shall be constructed so that the majority
of surface water shall be intercepted before reaching the intersection, and not
carried for a distance of more than four hundred (400) feet of the pavement.
Sec. 3-13.2. Accommodation of Upstream Drainage Areas.
A culvert or other drainage facility large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from the entire drainage area upstream from the proposed subdivision
shall be provided in accordance with the city's standard specifications.
Potential runoff shall be determined on the basis of the maximum development of
the upstream area that is permitted or to be permitted under the comprehensive
plan.
Sec. 3-13.3. Areas Subject To Flooding:
Whenever a plat is submitted for an area that is subject to flooding, the city
council may require appropriate protective measures, including the filling of
the flood prone area to a level equal to the regulatory flood elevation, if
any.
Section 3-14. Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control:
In the development of any subdivision, the following erosion and sedimentation
control regulation shall be observed:
(A)   The developer shall protect the development site from soil erosion and
shall protect downstream property from sedimentation deposits during the
construction of the subdivision. Practices contained in "Procedures and
Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois" shall
be employed in the preparation of an erosion and sedimentation control plan
which shall be approved by the city engineer prior to any earth-disturbing
activity taking place.
Section 3-15. Dedications For Public Use:
The city council may require the developer to dedicate (i.e., to transfer
without compensation) to the city of Rock Island or other appropriate
governmental entity suitable parcel(s) of land within the subdivision for
public purposes provided such facilities are otherwise required herein. Any
such dedicated area shall be shown on the final plat.
Sec. 3-15.1. Reservations For Public Use 1 :
Besides requiring the developer to dedicate parcels for public purposes, the
city council may require that he reserve land for parks, playgrounds, schools,
or other public purposes in locations designated in the city's comprehensive
plan. Since public acquisition of reserved land requires compensation, it is
not essential that the need for such land be uniquely and specifically
attributable to the subdivision. (Ord. 90-92, 12-17-1990)
(A)   Adopted: (Rep. by Ord. 99-97, § 1, 11-15-1999)
(B)   Planned Public Improvements To Be Shown On Map: The official map may show
indication of sites for planned public facilities. Public facility sites which
may be indicated on the official map may include, but are not limited to, sites
for new trafficways or widening of existing trafficways; school sites;
recreational sites; public building sites; and sites for future storm drainage,
electrical or other public service or utility easements.
Availability Of Sites For Planned Public Improvements:
   (1)   Whenever the official map indicates the necessity for providing a site
for a planned public facility, the council may require that the site for the
public use be designated on the subdivision plat before granting approval to
such plat; and, furthermore, that the site be held for that specific public use
for a period of one year from the date of approval of the final plat. When such
designation has been required, the council shall notify the responsible public
agency in writing of the designation within ten (10) days.
   (2)   Whenever a site for public use, shown on the official map, has been
required to be indicated on a subdivision plat, the responsible agency having
jurisdiction of such use shall acquire the land so designated by purchase or
commence proceedings to acquire the land by condemnation within one year from
date of final approval of the plat; and, if it does not do so within such
period of one year, the land so designated may then be used by the owners in
any other manner consistent with this chapter, the zoning ordinance 1 , or any
other provision of this code or other ordinance of the city.
(C)   Amendments Or Additions To The Official Map: Amendments to the official
map, including the indication of additional public sites to be shown on the
map, shall be considered amendments to this appendix and, therefore, shall be
as specified in this appendix for amendments to this appendix. Any public
agency requesting the establishment of the official map of a future public site
or easement which is not included in the comprehensive plan shall indicate to
the plan commission the need for the site in the particular location specified.
The plan commission, before making a favorable recommendation for the inclusion
on the official map of such site by the council, shall find that this public
site location is determined to be necessary to provide public service
consistent with the comprehensive plan of the community and shall so indicate
in its minutes.
 
Notes
1 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8.
1 Appendix A of this code.
ARTICLE IV. PLATS AND PLANS
Section 4-1.   Prefiling Conference:
Prior to the submission of the initial plat, a prefiling conference may be held
between the developer and appropriate city staff. The developer shall present a
concept sketch of the proposed development. City staff shall use a standardized
checklist to review the proposed development for conformance to the subdivision
ordinance.
Section 4-2.   Preliminary Plats:
Except as specifically provided below, every person who proposes to subdivide
any land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of the city of Rock Island
shall file six (6) copies of the preliminary plat of said subdivision with the
planning and redevelopment administrator at least three (3) weeks prior to a
regularly scheduled meeting of the planning commission.
He shall also file one copy of the preliminary plat and supporting data with
the appropriate soil and water conservation district. Said district shall have
not more than thirty (30) days to submit any comments it might wish to make to
the planning commission 1 .
Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a portion of that
tract is to be submitted for final plat approval, a preliminary plat of the
entire tract shall be submitted.
All preliminary plats shall be reviewed and acted upon in accordance with 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-12-8 and the provisions of the subsections
below.
Exception: A preliminary plat shall not be required for:
(A)   Minor subdivisions; or
(B)   Land that is specifically exempted from the Illinois Plats Act 2 as now
or hereafter amended.
 
Notes
1 70 ILCS 405/22.02a.
2 765 ILCS 205/1(b).
Sec. 4-2.1. Information Required:
Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered in
Illinois at a scale of one hundred feet (100') or less to the inch provided the
resultant drawing does not exceed thirty six inches by twenty four inches (36"
x 24"). Said preliminary plat, together with the supporting data, shall provide
all of the following information:
(A)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider (if not owner), and
registered land surveyor;
(B)   Proposed name of the subdivision and all adjoining subdivisions;
(C)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided and proposed
setbacks;
(D)   North arrow, graphic scale, and date of map;
(E)   Dimensions of the tract, and its gross area;
(F)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by two foot (2')
contour data for land having slopes of zero to four percent (4%), five foot
(5') contour data for land having slopes between four (4) and twelve percent
(12%), and ten-foot contour data for land having slopes of twelve (12) percent
or more;
(G)   Locations of such features as bodies of water, ponding areas, natural
drainageways, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks, schools, buildings, areas
subject to flooding, etc.;
(H)   Locations and right-of-way widths of all existing and proposed streets
and alleys;
(I)   Locations, widths, and purposes of all existing and proposed easements;
(J)   All proposed deed restrictions and covenants;
(K)   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary and storm sewers,
water mains, and any appurtenances thereto;
(L)   Locations, types, and approximate sizes of all other existing and
proposed utilities;
(M)   Locations, dimensions, and areas of all parcels to be reserved or
dedicated for schools, parks/playgrounds, and other public purposes;
(N) Locations, dimensions, and areas of all proposed or existing lots within
the subdivision numbered sequentially;
(O) For all contiguous holdings of the owner, including land owned by the same
person, corporation, firm, entity, partnership, or un incorporated association
or owned by different corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or
unincorporated associations in which a stockholder, partner, or associate, or a
member of his family owns an interest in each corporation, firm, partnership,
entity, or unincorporated association, with an indication of the portion
proposed for subdivision, an affidavit of ownership, which shall include the
dates the respective holdings of land were acquired, together with the book and
page of each conveyance to the present owner as recorded in the county recorder
of deed's office or other official records, the name and address and telephone
number of the legal owner of the property, the subdivider, if different from
the legal owner, the land surveyor and engineer, and the agents of any of these
persons; the name and address and telephone number of the contract owner, if
any, of the property and the date the contract of sale was executed; and, if
any corporations are involved, a complete list of all directors, officers, and
stockholders owning more than five (5) percent of any class of stock of each
corporation; and, if a trust is involved, a complete list of the names of the
trustees, and the names and addresses and telephone numbers of all
beneficiaries of the trust;
(P) The location by township, range, section, or by other legal description;
(Q) A list of requested variances and justifications.
Sec. 4-2.2. Utility Company Notification.
It is the subdividers responsibility to notify the appropriate public
utilities. Proof of notification shall be submitted with the preliminary plat
to the city for city approval.
Sec. 4-2.3. Planning Commission Action.
The planning commission shall either recommend approval, conditional approval,
or disapproval of the application for the preliminary plat within ninety (90)
days from the date of said application or the filing of the last item of
required supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the planning
commission and the subdivider mutually agree to extend this time limit. (65
ILCS 5/11-12-8) If the planning commission recommends disapproval of the
preliminary plat, they shall furnish to the applicant within the ninety-day
period a written statement specifying the aspects in which the proposed plat
fails to conform to this ordinance and/or the official map. If the planning
commission recommends approval of the preliminary plat, it shall promptly so
inform the city council.
Sec. 4-2.4. Appeals Process.
If the preliminary plat is not approved, the planning and redevelopment
administrator shall write "Not Approved" and the date of the planning
commission's action on the prints, and shall transmit to the subdivider one (1)
print with a letter stating the reasons for the disapproval. The subdivider may
transmit an amended plat to the planning commission for consideration.
If the subdivider is not satisfied with the decision of the planning commission
on the preliminary plat, then the subdivider may appeal the decision to the
city council. An appeal must be made by letter addressed to the mayor and city
council, stating the reasons for the appeal. Said letter must be received by
the planning and redevelopment administrator no less than ten (10) days
following the date of the planning commission's decision. The letter of appeal
shall be placed on the next regular city council meeting agenda after it is
received by the planning and redevelopment administrator. The planning and
redevelopment administrator shall also provide to the city council the
preliminary plat, the planning commission's meeting minutes pertaining to the
plat, and the reports and recommendations made to the planning commission by
the planning and redevelopment administrator. The city council shall have
thirty (30) days from the time the appeal is first placed on its agenda either
to: reaffirm the planning commission's decision on the preliminary plat, to
approve the preliminary plat as submitted by the subdivider, or to approve the
preliminary plat with modifications.
Sec. 4-2.5. Action by the City Council.
If the planning commission has recommended approval of a preliminary plat, the
city council, by resolution, shall either accept or reject said plat within
thirty (30) days after their next regularly scheduled meeting following the
planning commission's action. If the city council rejects the preliminary plat,
their resolution shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to comply
with this ordinance. The city clerk shall attach a certified copy of the
council's resolution of approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat. One
(1) copy of the resolution and plat shall be retained by the clerk, one (1)
copy shall be filed with the planning and redevelopment administrator, and one
copy shall be given to the subdivider. City council approval shall not qualify
a preliminary plat for recording.
Section 4-3. Improvement Plans.
After the city council has approved the preliminary plat, but prior to
submission of the final plat, the subdivider shall furnish four (4) copies of
the plans and specifications for all improvements to be installed within or in
conjunction with the proposed subdivision to the city engineer for review.
These plans and specifications shall be signed and sealed by the registered
professional engineer responsible for their preparation. Until the city
engineer certifies in writing that the proposed improvements conform to
generally accepted engineering practices and to the standards imposed in this
ordinance:
(A)   The city engineer shall not issue any permit to allow construction of
said improvements; and
(B)   The city council shall not act upon the application for final plat
approval.
Sec. 4-3.1. Information Required.
Improvement plans shall consist of black or blue line prints not larger than
thirty-six (36) inches by twenty-four (24) inches. These plans and the related
specifications shall provide all of the following information:
(A)   Topography of the tract, both before and after development, at the same
scale as required in the preliminary plat;
(B)   Existing and proposed elevations along the centerlines of all streets;
(C)   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets;
(D)   Locations and typical cross-section of street pavements, including curbs/
gutters and catch basins;
(E)   Locations and typical cross-section of sidewalks and driveway aprons;
(F)   Locations, sizes, and invert elevations of all existing and proposed
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and fire hydrants, showing connections to any
existing or proposed utility systems;
(G)   Locations and sizes of all water, gas, electric, and other utilities;
(H)   Locate area(s) for removal of trees six (6) inches or larger;
(I)   All proposed measures to control erosion and sedimentation;
(J)   High-water elevations of all lakes/streams adjoining or within the tract;
and
(K)   Such other information as the city engineer may reasonably require to
perform his duties under this section.
Sec. 4-3.2. Inspections Required.
The subdivider/developer shall notify the city engineer of both the start and
completion of construction of approved improvements.
(A)   The city engineer shall inspect said improvements while they are under
construction. If he determines that they are being built in violation of this
ordinance, he shall promptly notify the administrator, who, in turn, shall
issue a stop order. All public improvements proposed to be made under the
provisions of this article shall be inspected during the course of construction
by the city engineer or a duly designated deputy selected and retained by the
subdivider and approved by the city. All fees and costs connected with such
inspection and in reviewing the plan and specifications for such improvements
shall be paid by the subdivider. The fees and cost shall be set at the
prevailing rate.
(B)   In addition to the detailed requirements listed below, the inspector
shall maintain a daily diary in a standard format acceptable to the city
engineer. Copies of the daily diary entries shall be provided to the city
engineer on a weekly basis during construction.
   (1)   Content: The daily entries shall include at least the following
information:
(a)   Weather conditions.
(b)   Site conditions.
(c)   Contractor's working hours.
(d)   Inspector's hours on the site.
(e)   An explanation of the actual work performed by the contractor that day.
(f)   Specific information about material tests taken.
(g)   Description of any problems.
   (2)   Purpose: The purpose of the diary is to provide backup information for
the developer's engineer and the city engineer to recommend acceptance of the
improvements by the city council and provide actual construction records of any
problems that may develop.
   (3)   Format: The general format of the diary must be approved by the city
engineer before construction begins.
(C)   The inspector shall make and document the following inspections:
   (1)   Storm and sanitary sewer and water main improvements:
(a)   Inspect all materials and documents pertinent items such as pipe
manufacturer, class, and size.
(b)   Reject any defective material and ensure that it is not used on the job.
(c)   Observe the actual pipe laying operation to ensure that all joints are
properly made, the pipes are true to line and grade, and the bedding and
backfill are done according to the specifications.
(d)   Document the depth and type of bedding, trench conditions, location of
all service laterals, backfilling, and location of all utilities installed and
encountered. Location measurements shall be of the accuracy and type required
by the city engineer.
(e)   Observe and document all final acceptance testing required by the
specifications.
   (2)   Street improvements.
(a)   Perform and document subgrade, subbase, base, and embankment compaction
tests.
(b)   Inspect the alignment and condition of the paving forms.
         1.   Check and document subgrade depth checks.
         2.   Check and document the paving machine adjustments.
(c)   Furnish the asphalt or PC concrete mix design to the city engineer for
approval prior to connecting paving operations.
(d)   Inspect all concrete pours.
         1.   Perform and document an appropriate number of air content and
slump measurements.
         2.   Cast compression cylinders or beams and document the results of
the tests.
(e)   Inspect the placement of all asphalts.
         1.   Perform and record asphalt compaction tests.
         2.   Perform at least one (1) asphalt extraction test and one (1)
sieve analysis from an asphalt sample taken on the job site.
(C)   The city engineer shall also inspect required improvements upon their
completion. The City of Rock Island shall not accept any improvement until the
city engineer has certified that it complies with this ordinance.
Sec. 4-3.3. Filing As-Built Records.
The improvements will not be recommended for acceptance until the following is
provided for the city engineer:
(A)   Copies of all daily diary entries.
(B)   Copies of all material test results.
(C)   Detailed reproducible cloth or polyester reproducible as-built
improvements construction plans of all public improvements.
(D)   Certification by the developer's engineer that all construction was
accomplished within reasonably close conformance to the plans and
specifications, and that the as-built plans accurately reflect actual field
conditions.
(E)   A labor and material payment and maintenance bond posted prior to
construction by the contractor of a subdivider for the installation of all
public improvements, using forms provided by the city engineer.
(F)   Permanent easements or agreements granted to the city for all public
improvements that are not constructed in dedicated right-of-way, using forms
provided by the city engineer.
(G)   Accurate triangular measurements for sewer and water laterals to
permanent items, e.g. fire hydrants or manholes. The sewer and water services
shall be marked with a four-feet by four-feet marking, that stands five (5) or
six (6) feet tall, including a curb notch.
Sec. 4-3.4. Privately Developed and Operated Facilities.
Where the subdivision is to contain sewers, sewage treatment plants, water
supply systems, park areas, or other physical facilities which will not be
maintained by existing public agencies, provision should be made by trust
agreement, which is a part of the deed restrictions and which is acceptable to
the proper public agencies, for jurisdiction over the continuous maintenance,
supervision, operation and reconstruction of such facilities by the lot owners
in the subdivision.
Section 4-4. Assurance for Completion of Required Improvements.
The city council shall not approve any final plat (and, hence, said final plat
shall not be entitled to recording) until:
(A)   All improvements required in the approved improvements plan have been
completed by the subdivider/developer at his expense, inspected by the city
engineer, and dedicated to the City of Rock Island or other appropriate entity;
or
(B)   In accordance with the subsections below, the subdivider/developer has
provided the City of Rock Island with legal assurance to guarantee the
satisfactory completion and dedication of all required improvements.
(C)   Necessary title assurances have been given.
Sec. 4-4.1. Forms of Assurance.
The required legal assurance may be a performance bond, an escrow deposit or a
letter of credit. Every performance bond shall be approved as to form by the
city attorney, and posted with the city clerk. Any funds held in escrow shall
be deposited with an approved escrow agent.
Sec. 4-4.2. Amount of Bond or Deposit.
The amount of the legal assurance shall be equal to the city engineer's
estimate of the costs of constructing the uncompleted portion of the required
improvements plus all required inspections fees. Any escrow deposit may be in
the form of:
(A)   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a lending institution
guaranteeing to the City of Rock Island the avail ability of the escrow funds
from time to time upon demand; or
(B)   Interest-bearing accounts with a financial institution authorized to
serve as an escrow agent.
Sec. 4-4.3. Eligible Sureties.
No person shall be eligible to act as surety unless he has been approved by the
State of Illinois to act as a surety on public works improvements.
Sec. 4-4.4. Term of Assurance, Extension.
The initial term of any performance bond or escrow agreement shall not exceed
two (2) years. If all the required improvements have not been completed by the
end of the two-year period, the city engineer, with the advice and consent of
the city council may extend said bond/escrow agreement for one (1) year only.
Sec. 4-4.5. Release of Bond/Escrow Deposit
(A)   The city engineer may release up to ninety (90) percent of the amount of
the performance bond/escrow deposit upon receipt of written authorization from
the city engineer. The amount which the city engineer authorizes to be released
shall be equal to the value of improvements actually completed in accordance
with approved plans.
(B)   The balance of the amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit shall
not be released until:
   (1)   The city engineer has certified in writing that all required
improvements have been satisfactorily completed; and
   (2)   Said improvements and corresponding right-of-way have been accepted by
and dedicated to the City of Rock Island or other appropriate entity.
Sec. 4-4.6. Failure To Complete Improvements.
If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of the two-
year period (or three-year period, in the case of an extension), the city
engineer, with the assistance of the city attorney, may:
(A)   Require the surety to perform on the bond, and to pay to the City of Rock
Island an equal amount to the cost of completing the required improvements (as
estimated by the city engineer) or the amount of the bond not theretofore
released, whichever is less; or
(B)   Order the escrow agent to retain all escrowed funds needed to complete
the required improvements, and to return the balance (if any) of such funds to
the subdivider/developer.
Section 4-5. Final Plats.
The Rock Island County Recorder of Deeds shall not record any final plat of a
subdivision located within the subdivision jurisdiction of the City of Rock
Island until said final plat has been approved by the city council. The city
council shall not approve any final plat unless they determine that it is in
compliance with all pertinent requirements of this ordinance, including those
set forth in the subsections below.
Sec. 4-5.1. Filing, Time Limits.
The subdivider of every subdivision who desires final plat approval shall file
six (6) black or blue line prints of the final plat and supporting data with
the planning and redevelopment administrator not later than one (1) year after
preliminary plat approval has been granted.
Sec. 4-5.2. Information Required.
Every final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor authorized to practice
land surveying in the State of Illinois on new linen tracing cloth or
polyester-based film with waterproof black ink at a scale not greater than one
hundred (100) feet equals one (1) inch, provided that the resultant drawing
shall not be less than eight and one-half (8 1/2) inches by fourteen (14)
inches and shall not exceed twenty-four (24) inches by thirty-six (36) inches
square. The final plat and supporting data shall portray/provide all of the
following information.
(A)   North arrow, graphic scale, and data;
(B)   Name of subdivider and subdivision;
(C)   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of the
tract tied to section or 1/4 section corner;
(D)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles which
provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not more
than one (1) foot in fifteen thousand (15,000) feet and provide a copy of the
closure calculations;
(E)   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land by record name,
plat book, and page number;
(F)   Accurate locations of all existing streets intersecting the boundaries of
the subdivision;
(G)   Right-of-way lines of all streets, other rights-of-way, easements, areas
to be reserved, and lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles, or bearings and
curve data, including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency, central
angles, and accompanying legal descriptions;
(H)   Name and right-of-way width of every proposed street;
(I)   Location, width and purpose of any existing or proposed easement;
(J)   Number of each lot, lot dimensions, and (in a separate list) lot areas;
(K)   Purpose(s) for which sites, other than private lots, are reserved;
(L)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions;
(M)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds of lots;
(N)   The names of all legal owners and other parties with an interest, whether
recorded or not, in the property being subdivided, together with formal
irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of all streets, local government
uses, utilities, parks, and easements, signed by all parties of interest or
their authorized agents, in a form approved by the city attorney, if the plat
is proposed for final approval without improvements in place and accepted with
a deed of dedication to the public in fee simple absolute unless otherwise
called for on the plat of such lands; and with a commitment for title insurance
policy or title opinion form [from] a licensed attorney showing that those
signing the plat are necessary and sufficient to create the subdivision and,
prior to signing the plat, a title policy for the local government in the sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for any lands or interests to be dedicated
to the public; and
(O)   Monument identification.
Sec. 4-5.3. Modifications and Exceptions.
If the final plat is under one (1) ownership and is no more than five (5) lots,
no formal commission approval is needed and the plans can go directly to the
city council unless there are new streets, other public improvements, or
easements of egress or ingress.
Sec. 4-5.4. Certificates Required.
As required by State law (765 ILCS 205/2; 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8), the following
certificates shall be executed on the final plat;
(A)   Owner's certificate: The following is an example of the owner's
certificate:
State of Illinois )
Rock Island County ss. )
City of Rock Island )
Know all men by these presents, that we/I, (name(s) of owner(s), owner(s) and
proprietor(s) of the land shown on the accompanying plat and described in the
accompanying certificate of the surveyor do hereby certify that I/we have
caused said survey to be made and acknowledge the said plat as correct, and do
hereby adopt and accept the same and cause it to be known as (name of
subdivision).
Easements are hereby dedicated for the use of the City of Rock Island, and
public facilities franchise to do business within the City of Rock Island, as
indicated on the plat and marked drainage and utility easement to install, lay,
construct, renew, operate and maintain drainage ways, drainage structures, gas,
water, sewer pipes, conduits, cable, poles and wires, overhead and underground,
with all necessary braces, guys, anchors and other appliances for the purpose
of serving the subdivision and other property with gas, water, sewer, electric
and telephone service and to overhang all lots with aerial service wires to
serve adjacent lots, together with the right to enter upon lots at all times to
install, lay, construct, renew, operate and maintain said gas, water and sewer
pipes, conduits, cables, poles, wires, braces, guys, anchors and other
appliances, and to trim and keep trimmed any trees, shrubs or saplings that
interfere or threaten to interfere with said public utility equipment, but same
may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping and other purposes that do not
interfere with the use of said easement for public utility purposes.
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions would
be inserted here upon the subdivider's initiative or the recommendation of the
city plan commission or the council; important provisions are those specifying
the use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use, the
minimum habitable floor area.)
Sidewalks shall be constructed at the time the structure is constructed or at
the direction of the Board of Local Improvements recommended to the City
Council of the City of Rock Island.
All streets, alleys, and public open spaces shown and not heretofore dedicated,
are hereby dedicated to the public.
Building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between
which lines and the property lines of the streets there shall be erected or
maintained no building structure.
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions), are to run with the land and shall
be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until (25 year
period is suggested), at which time said covenants (or restrictions) shall be
automatically extended for successive periods of ten (10) years unless by vote
of a majority of the then owners of the building sites covered by these
covenants (or restrictions), in whole or in part. Invalidation of any one of
the foregoing covenants (or restrictions), by judgement or court order, shall
in no way affect any of the other covenants (or restrictions), which shall
remain in full force and effect.
In witness whereof, we hereunto affix our hands and seals this                
day of                , A.D. 19     .
                              (Seal)
                              (Seal)
(B)   Irrevocable offers of dedication forms:
   (1)   The following form shall be placed upon a final plat of a subdivision
whenever said plat is approved upon submission of a subdivider's bond or escrow
agreement as provided for in section [4-4.2]:
The owner, or his representative, hereby irrevocably offers for dedication to
the City of Rock Island, in fee simple absolute unless otherwise called for on
the plat, all the streets, local government uses, easements, parks, and
required utilities shown within the subdivision plat and construction plans in
accordance with an irrevocable offer of dedication dated                 and
recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Rock Island County,
Illinois.
By                                                                
                                                                  
Date                                                              
   (2)   The following form shall accompany any final plat set forth in (1)
above and shall be presented for recording simultaneously with any such plat,
but shall be recorded immediately prior to the recording of the plat.
OFFER OF IRREVOCABLE DEDICATION
Agreement made this           day of               , 19     , by and between
              ,               , having                office and place of
business at                , hereinafter referred to as "Developer", and the
City of Rock Island a municipal corporation having its principal office at 1528
Third Avenue, hereinafter designated as "City;"
WHEREAS, the City is in the process of approving a subdivision plat entitled
               , dated                , and made by                ; and
WHEREAS, said plat and the construction plans associated therewith designated
certain property interests and public improvements consisting
of                                                                                                                                                                               to
be dedicated to the City free and clear of all encumbrances and liens, pursuant
to the provisions of Appendix B of the Rock Island Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, the Developer, simultaneously with final plat approval or before,
shall post a subdivider's bond with the City for the construction and payment
therefor, maintenance, and dedication of said interests and improvements; and
WHEREAS, the Developer is desirous of offering for dedication the said
improvements and interests in land to the City as more particularly described
in Schedule            attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, the Developer has delivered deed of dedication to the City to be held
in trust by it for the said improvements and interests inland as described
herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the City's approval of said subdivision
plat, it is mutually agreed as follows:
(a)   The Developer herewith delivers to the City deed of dedication in fee
simple absolute unless otherwise called for on the plat for the premises and
improvements described in Schedule            attached hereto, said delivery
being a formal offer of dedication to the City to be held by the City in trust
until the acceptance or rejection of such offer of dedication by the City
Council.
(b)   The Developer agrees that said formal offer of dedication is irrevocable
and can be accepted by the local government at any time.
(c)   The Developer agrees to complete the construction and maintenance of the
land and improvements pursuant to the Subdivider's Bond and the provisions of
Appendix B of the Rock Island Code of Ordinances and any conditions of approval
of said subdivision and upon acceptance by the City of the offer of dedication
shall furnish, within thirty (30) days after written notice from the City of
said acceptance of the offer of dedication, to the City a title insurance
policy issued by a licensed title insurance company authorized to do business
in the State of Illinois in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00),
certifying that the premises are free and clear of all liens, and encumbrances
and that fee simple title or other specific interest reposes in the City and
shall furnish to the City a check for all necessary fees and taxes to record
the deed(s) heretofore delivered.
(d)   That this irrevocable offer of dedication shall run with the land and
shall be binding on all assigns, grantees, successors, or heirs of the
Developer.
   CITY OF                         
(Seal)
                                   
      Mayor
Attest:                    
   City Clerk
Approved as to Form:
                              DEVELOPER
City Attorney
Attest:                                                       
(Seal)                                 
                                                         
(C)   Notary public's certificate:
State of Illinois )
      ss.    )
County of )
I,                         , a Notary Public in and for the County aforesaid,
do hereby certify that    (owners)     are personally known to me to be the
same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and that
they appear before me this day in person and acknowledge that they signed and
sealed the same as their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes
therein set forth, including the release waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this                day
of                    , 19     
                                                                 
Notary Public
(D)   Surveyor's certificate: The following surveyor's certificate shall
accompany or be placed on the final plat:
State of Illinois )
      ss.    )
Rock Island County )
I,                    , an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor, hereby certify
that the annexed plat is a true and correct representation of a survey made by
me or under my direction according to the surveying laws of the State of
Illinois and the                Subdivision Ordinance, or the following
described property to wit:
Monuments as shown on the plat are set or will be set within 30 days after the
completion of the required improvements and their acceptance by the City, and
such monuments are or will be sufficient to enable the survey to be retraced
and will occupy the positions shown thereon.
   (1)   (No) part of the property covered by this plat of subdivision is
located within a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
In witness I hereunto set by hand and seal this                day
of               , A.D. 19     .
(E)   County clerk's certificate:
I,               , County Clerk of Rock Island County, Illinois, do hereby
certify that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against any of the real estate
included within this plat.
                                                                 
County Clerk
                                                             Date
(F)   Certificate of city council:
I,               , Mayor of the City of               , do hereby certify that
the plat shown hereon was duly presented to the city council and approved at a
meeting of same held on   date   .
                         
    Mayor
Attest:                          
    City Clerk
(G)   City clerk's certificate: The following form shall be used for
certification by the city clerk:
I,               , City Clerk in and for the said City of                , do
hereby certify that all due assessments have been paid upon the real estate
described on the accompanying plat.
In witness whereof, I hereunto set by hand and official seal this      day
of               , A.D. 19     .
                         
    City Clerk
(H)   Certificate to approve subdivisions of five lots or less: The following
form shall be used for the approval of subdivisions of five (5) lots or less by
the planning and redevelopment administrator in accordance with section 4-5.3.
We, the undersigned City Engineer and Planning and Redevelopment Administrator,
do hereby certify that the accompanying plat has been examined and found to be
in compliance with the requirements of the Subdivision Ordinance and recommend
approval of this plat by the City of Rock Island.
                         
      City Engineer
                         
      Planning and Redevelop-
      ment Administrator
(I)   Roadway access and sewage disposal systems:
   (1)   The following form shall be required on the face of the plat where
roadway access is to a highway under the jurisdiction of the Illinois
Department of Transportation or another relevant local highway authority.
This plat approved with respect to roadway access under provisions of 765 ILCS
205/2.
                              
Agency
                              
Title
                              
Date
   (2)   The following form shall be required on the face of the plat where any
part of the platted land will not be served by a public sewer system.
This plat is approved with respect to sewage disposal systems under provisions
of 765 ILCS 205/2.
                              
Agency
                              
Title
                              
Date
(J)   Required disclosures to be on face of final plat: The following
disclosures are to be placed on the face of the final plat:
   (1)   Either of the following, depending upon which is the most appropriate,
shall be placed upon the face of the final plat by a registered professional
engineer and the owner or his duly authorized attorney:
To the best of our knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters both
within and around this subdivision will not be changed by the construction of
same or any part thereof.
(seal)
                                                                 
Registered Professional Engineer
Registration No.                   
                                                                 
   Owner or Attorney
To the best of our knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters either
within or around this subdivision will be changed by the construction of same
or parts thereof but adequate provision has been made to collect and divert
said surface waters to public drains or private drains to which the owner has
legal access and said provisions are such that the capacity of no natural or
man-made drain will be exceeded and no damage to adjoining properties will
incur because of said provisions.
(seal)
                                                                 
Registered Professional Engineer
Registration No.                   
                                                                 
   Owner or Attorney
   (2)   In addition to one of the above, the owner or subdivider shall
disclose on the face of said subdivision final plat the following if a bond or
escrow agreement is provided:
I hereby disclose and give notice to all that this subdivision has been
approved by the City upon the condition that I post bond or enter into an
escrow agreement to secure installation of all improvements required by said
City. The terms of same allow me a period of two (2) years to install said
improvements or provide the City the right to install same to the extent of
funds provided by such security. City ordinances do not permit, however,
occupancy of any premises until adequate provision for access for water and
sanitary sewerage are made.
                        
   Owner or Subdivider
   (3)   Also, any disclosure required by state or federal statute shall be
displayed upon said plat.
Sec. 4-5.5. Action by City Council.
The city council shall either approve or disapprove the application for final
plat approval by resolution within sixty (60) days from the date of said
application or the filing of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless the city council and the subdivider mutually
agree to extend this time limit. (65 ILCS 5/11-12-8). The city council shall
not approve any final plat unless:
(A)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat if
required; and
(B)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design and
improvements standards of this ordinance and the official map; and
(C)   To the city council's knowledge and belief, the final plat compiles with
all pertinent statutory requirements; and
(D)   Either of the following has been met:
         1.   All required improvements have been completed, inspected,
accepted, and dedicated; or
         2.   The subdivider/developer has posted an acceptable form of
assurance as stated in section 4-4.1.
If the city council disapproves the final plat, their resolution shall specify
the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the above conditions for approval.
Section 4-6. Maintenance of Improvements.
The subdivider/developer shall provide all the improvements in the subdivision
for a period of one (1) year and provide a one-year maintenance bond prior to
acceptance and dedication to the City of Rock Island or other appropriate
entity. Said bond shall be in the amount determined by the city engineer to be
sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required improvements
for a period of one (1) year from the date of their acceptance and dedication.
If at any time during the one-year period the improvements are found to be
defective, they shall be repaired/replaced at the subdivider/developer's
expense. If the subdivider/developer refuses to pay such costs within ninety
(90) days after demand is made upon him by the city engineer, the City of Rock
Island shall use the maintenance bond to make the necessary repairs/
replacement. If the cost of repairs/replacement exceeds the bond amount, the
subdivider/developer shall be liable for the excess. At the end of the one-year
period, the maintenance bond shall be released.
ARTICLE V. OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
Section 5-1. Enforcement Officer, Duties.
The planning and redevelopment administrator, referred to herein as the
administrator, is hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce the
provisions of this ordinance.
Section 5-2. Amendments.
Amendments to this ordinance may be proposed by any member of the city council,
and planning commission member, or any party in interest. Every amendment
proposal shall be filed on a prescribed form in the administrator's office. The
planning and redevelopment administrator shall promptly transmit each proposal,
together with any comments or recommendations he may wish to make, to the city
planning commission for a public hearing.
Sec. 5-2.1. Public Hearing, Notice.
The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on every amendment proposal
within a reasonable time after said proposal is submitted to them. At the
hearing any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by
duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the time, date, and place
of the hearing, and the nature of the proposed amendment shall be given not
more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation with the City of Rock Island.
Sec. 5-2.2. Advisory Report, Action by City Council.
Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the planning commission
shall submit an advisory report to the city council. The city council shall act
on the proposed amendment at a regularly scheduled meeting following submission
of this report. Without another public hearing, the city council may either
pass, modify or reject the proposed amendment or may refer it back to the
planning commission for further consideration.
Section 5-3. Penalties.
(A)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this ordinance shall be
guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
(B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent this municipality from
taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with
this ordinance.
Section 5-4. Repeal.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are to the extent of
such conflict hereby repealed.
Section 5-5. Separability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this article [ordinance]. The city
council hereby declares that it would have adopted the article [ordinance] and
each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or word thereof without
incorporation in this article [ordinance] of any such invalid section,
subsection, clause, phrase or word.
Section 5-6. Publication.
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after passage,
approval, and, if required by law, publication in the manner provided by law.
Section 5-7. When effective.
This ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days after its final passage,
approval, and publication as provided by law. (65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.)
APPENDIX C
FRANCHISES
ARTICLE I. CABLE TELEVISION 2
 
Notes
  Editor's note--Included herein as Art. I of App. C is the cable television
  franchise of the city, adopted by Ord. No. 94-84, enacted Sept. 26, 1994. The
2 exhibits A--C mentioned in the ordinance are not set out herein, but may be
  found on file in the office of the city clerk. Formerly App. C contained the
  city's cable television franchise adopted Apr. 27, 1981, as amended.
  Cross reference--Cable television enabling ordinance, § 8-176 et seq.
Section 1. Title.
This ordinance shall be known as and may be cited as the "City of Rock Island
Cable Television Franchise Ordinance."
Section 2. Definitions.
The words and phrases defined in this section shall have the meanings ascribed
to them as follows:
(a)   Basic cable shall mean that tier of service regularly provided to all
subscribers that includes the retransmission of off-air broadcast and
television signals.
(b)   Cable Act collectively means that Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984
and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Action of 1992, as
amended.
(c)   Central business district shall mean that area encompassed by the
Mississippi River on the north, Fifth Avenue on the south, Fifteenth Street on
the west and Twenty-Fourth Street on the east.
(d)   Channel means a frequency in the electro-magnetic spectrum capable of
clearly and effectively carrying an audio-data or an audio visual television
signal, and as defined by the FCC Rules and Regulations.
(e)   Company or grantee means TCI of Illinois, Inc. or its lawful successor.
(f)   Converter means an electronic device which converts signals to a
frequency not susceptible to interference within a fully functional television
receiver of a subscriber and which permits a subscriber by an appropriate
channel selector to receive all signals referred to under the ordinance.
(g)   Council means the governing body of the City of Rock Island.
(h)   Expanded CATV service means that tier of service that includes satellite
delivered and other cable television programming, not including pay-per-view,
pay-per-event, or other programming offered on a transactional basis only.
(i)   FCC means the Federal Communications Commission, established by the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and shall include any successor agency
or other agency with respect to the federal regulation and licensing in
connection with the subject matter of this ordinance.
(j)   FM services means broadcast of audio signals only on a broad band
standard FM frequency.
(k)   Grant means the right, privilege and franchise provided in subsection (a)
of section 3 of this ordinance.
(l)   Gross receipts means the receipts derived by the company from all
services generated by the system facilities, within the municipality or from
the use of the system facilities within the municipality, including, but not
limited to, alarm or signal transmission, advertising revenue, charges to
subscribers for basic cable premium programming, FM services, expanded CATV
services, installation charges, and any and all receipts received from any
source whatsoever for use of the system facilities for transmission of
electronic or microwave impulses. Data transmission by the company shall also
be included in "gross receipts" if another utility company or companies
providing the same type of service are also required to pay to the municipality
a percentage of their gross receipts comparable to that paid by the company.
(m)   Municipality means the City of Rock Island.
(n)   Person means any individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership,
association, corporation, company, or organization of any kind.
(o)   Potential subscriber means those persons within the current jurisdiction
of the grant franchise who are not subscribers or who have refused system
services.
(p)   Premium programming means any commercial free programming, including but
not limited to, movies, concerts, variety acts, sporting events and the like
for which an additional charge is made.
(q)   Public rights-of-way means all sidewalks, streets and alleys in the
municipality which are dedicated to the municipality for street, highway,
sidewalk, lighting, drainage, utility, or cable television purposes, and all
public ways and places contiguous thereto.
(r)   Subscriber means any person receiving and paying for service from or
using the system under the grant pursuant to this ordinance.
(s)   System means community antenna television system as defined in Chapter 24
Section 11-42-11 of the Illinois Municipal Code, and as amended from time to
time.
(t)   System facilities means a system composed of, without limitation,
antenna, cable, wires, lines, towers, amplifiers, conductors, converters,
equipment or facilities, designed, constructed or wired for the purpose of
producing, receiving, amplifying and distributed by coaxial cable, fiber
optics, microwave or other means, audio and/or visual radio, television,
electronic or electrical signals to and from subscribers.
Section 3. Grant of franchise.
(a)   The municipality to the full extent that it may do so, hereby grants to
the grantee a nonexclusive franchise which authorizes the grantee to construct
and operate a system in, along, among, upon, across, above, over, under, or in
any manner connected with public ways within the service area and for that
purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain,
or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across, or along any public way and all
extension thereof and additions thereto, such poles, wires, cables, conductors,
ducts, conduits, values, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments, and other related property or equipment as may be necessary or
appurtenant to the system, subject to city ordinances relating to location and
construction of proposed improvements.
(b)   The term of the grant shall be fifteen (15) years commencing on September
1, 1994.
(c)   The grant shall be non-exclusive. The municipality may make additional
grants within the scope of its powers, however, the municipality will not
authorize or permit another entity to operate within the franchise area except
under conditions and terms consistent with those contained in this franchise
agreement. Costs that are incurred by the company to their system such as the
moving, relocating or strengthening of poles, relocating attachments, placing
underground facilities shall be reimbursed to the company by any other entity
that receives a franchise.
Section 4. Jurisdiction of grant or franchise.
(a)   The grant shall apply within the corporate limits of the municipality,
including all territory hereafter annexed to the municipality.
(b)   The company shall be required to extend the system to and to offer the
services of the system to potential subscribers within all area of the
municipality where there are at least a total of thirty-two (32) residential
dwelling units and/or occupied commercial or industrial structures per line
mile.
(c)   Notwithstanding the grant, the company shall obtain all necessary
federal, state, and local government permits, licenses, and other required
authorizations in connection with the establishment, construction, operation
and maintenance of the system and system facilities.
(d)   The company shall be required to extend service to any area subdivided or
constructed after the effective date of this ordinance in accordance with the
criteria set forth in this section 4. No subscriber shall be refused service
arbitrarily. However, for unusual circumstances, such as a subscriber's request
to locate his cable drop underground, existence of more than one hundred fifty
(150) feet of distance from distribution cable to connection of service to
subscriber's, or of less than eight (8) residences per one thousand three
hundred twenty (1,320) cable-bearing strand feet of trunk or distribution
cable, service may be made available on the basis of a capital contribution in
aid of construction including cost of material, labor, and easements. For the
purpose of determining the amount of capital contribution in aid of
construction to be borne by the grantee and subscribers in the area in which
service may be expanded, the grantee will contribute an amount equal to the
construction and other costs per mile, multiplied by a fraction whose numerator
equals the actual number of residences per one thousand three hundred twenty
(1,320) cable-bearing strand feet of its trunks or distribution cable, and
whose denominator equals eight (8) residences. Subscribers who request service
hereunder will bear the remainder of the construction and other costs on a pro
rata basis. The grantee may require that the payment of the capital
contribution in aid of construction borne by such potential subscribers be paid
in advance.
(e)   Grantee agrees to extend its system into the central business district
(CBD) of the municipality in order to provide services to residences and
businesses. Such extensions shall be conducted in construction phases based on
the demand for service. Grantee shall provide the municipality with a schedule
of proposed extensions no later than April 1 of each year construction is
planned. Prime Star or another comparable system may be provided in lieu of the
expansion of the system facilities to service the CBD.
Section 5. Rates.
The municipality may regulate rates as expressly permitted by federal law and
FCC rules and regulations.
Section 6. Rate payment.
(a)   Unless the company provides a longer time, subscribers shall pay
connection charges to the company at the time the installation is made.
(b)   Unless the company provided a longer time, subscribers shall pay monthly
in advance for system services on or before the first (1st) day of the month in
which the company is to provide services.
Section 7. Franchise fee.
(a)   The company shall pay to the municipality for the right, privilege and
franchise in connection with the grant, an amount equal to five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts for the quarter-year (or in the case of the first quarter-
yearly payment, part of a quarter-year as the case may be), preceding July 1,
October 1, January 1, and April 1 of each year, such payment to be payable to
the municipality within forty-five (45) days following the end of the quarter.
Each payment shall be accompanied by a statement under oath from an official or
representative of the company having the requisite knowledge to make such a
statement certifying the gross receipts upon which the payment is based. The
franchise fee may be subject to renegotiation during the review periods
established by Section 10. Any change made in the franchisee fee as a result of
this negotiation shall be reasonable and such fee shall not exceed any existing
franchise fee of comparable systems in Illinois.
(b)   Delinquent payments shall bear interest at the rate of one (1%) per month
with the minimum delinquency being a one (1) month interest charge.
(c)   Within one hundred fifty (150) days of the end of each fiscal year of the
company, the company shall file with the council an annual report prepared,
certified and audited by an independent certified public accountant or officer
of the company showing the financial status of the company from the system for
the report period.
(d)   Upon termination of the grant or at the expiration of the term provided
in Section 3(b) or otherwise, the company shall continue to make the quarter-
yearly statements and certifications and the annual reports as provided in this
section until such time as all payments due the municipality under this
ordinance have been paid and accounted for to the reasonable satisfaction of
the municipality.
Section 8. Records.
(a)   All financial records of the company in connection with its activities
within the boundaries of the municipality shall be maintained in a manner which
permits distinguishing receipts earned within a municipality from receipts
earned by the company in other municipalities.
(b)   The municipality shall have the right upon ten (10) business days'
written notice to the grantee, during regular business hours on dates and at
frequencies mutually convenient to the grantee and the municipality, to inspect
all or any part of the grantee's records and documents pertaining to the
franchise fee, and engineering records and documents of every kind in
connection with the grant, the system, the system facilities, and the company's
undertakings with respect to this ordinance.
(c)   The company upon request shall file with the municipality a copy of all
petitions and applications submitted by the company to any governmental entity
or agency having jurisdiction with respect to any matter affecting the system,
system facilities, or the company's undertakings with respect to this
ordinance.
(d)   At least thirty (30) days prior to construction of any part of the system
or system facilities in public right-of-way, the company shall file with the
municipality copies of maps, plats or other drawings which accurately show the
nature of the proposed construction or improvements. Such copies shall show all
existing public or private improvements. Upon completion of such construction,
the company shall submit "base maps" plans which also show existing public or
private improvements.
(e)   The company shall file with the municipality a copy of its annual report
as provided to stockholders.
(f)   The company shall file annually with the municipality copies of all
rules, regulations, terms and conditions established or imposed by the company
in connection with the establishment, construction, operation and maintenance
of the system.
Section 9. System standards.
(a)   The company shall establish and construct the system in accordance with
the highest standards of the art of cable communications and in accordance with
the highest standards of code of conduct with respect to businesses of size and
type like that of the company.
(b)   The company through the system shall provide effective and efficient
service in accordance with the rules and regulations of all governmental units
and agencies having regulatory and licensing authority in connection with the
system.
(c)   The company through the system shall provide uniform, strong signals
which are free from material distortion and interference on accordance with FCC
standards.
(d)   The company shall not interrupt all or any part of the services of the
system in the absence of absolute need or emergency circumstances.
(e)   The company shall establish, construct, operate and maintain the system,
including system facilities, so as to at all times meet FCC technical
standards, including without limitation specifications for frequency
boundaries, visual carriers, frequency levels, aural carrier frequency levels,
channel frequency response, terminal isolation and radiation. The company
agrees to undertake and complete an upgrade of the cable tv system which shall
include fiber optic technology. Upon completion the cable tv system shall have
a capacity of seventy-two (72) channels. The rebuild shall include all
residential areas of the city limits as it exists as of the date of the signing
of this agreement. Upon the completion of the rebuild, as those boundaries
exist as of the date of this agreement shall be entitled to service at standard
installation and monthly charges. This rebuild shall be completed by December
31, 1997.
(f)   The company shall establish, construct, operate, and maintain the system
in accordance with all applicable national, state, and local building and
safety codes. In the absence of any otherwise applicable building and safety
code, the company shall establish, construct, operate and maintain the system
in accordance with the most recent edition of the National Electrical Safety
Code and the National Electrical Code.
(g)   The system shall be designed, established, constructed, operated and
maintained for a twenty-four-hour-a-day continuous operation.
(h)   The system shall produce for receipt on subscribers' receivers, which are
in good working order, either monochrome or color pictures (providing the
receiver is color capable) that are free from any significant interference,
distortion, or ghosting which would cause any material degradation of video or
audio quality.
(i)   The system shall be capable of providing emergency override alerts
whereby the municipality or other governmental units or agencies designated by
the municipality may be able to issue a bulletin on all channels
simultaneously. The municipality shall indemnify and hold the grantee harmless
from any and all claims arising out of the use or non-use by the municipality
or other governmental units or agencies of the capability provided herein.
(j)   The company shall not be liable for interruptions in service caused by
strikes, war, civil commotion, Acts of God, and other causes beyond the control
of the company.
(k)   The grantee shall abide by federal law, FCC rules and regulations, state
and local law with respect to obscene programming.
(l)   The system shall have a minimum capacity of fifty-two (52) channels.
(m)   The system shall have the capacity for two-way interactive
communications.
(n)   The system shall provide at least one (1) non-commercial access channel.
Use of said channel to be provided free of charge.
(o)   The grantee shall provide a basic level of service including at a
minimum, broadcast television programming as may be available and for which
consent may be reasonably obtained and the one (1) non-commercial public access
channel as specified in section 9(n) as amended.
(p)   Company shall provide equipment, and personnel for live coverage of
weekly city council meetings and a rebroadcast each week on the public access
channel.
Section 10. Review sessions.
Every two (2) years from the anniversary of this agreement, the municipality
shall schedule and hold a public meeting or meetings with the company to review
the performance by the company under the franchise and to consider the need for
an increase of channel capacity in the system.
Section 11. Use of municipal streets.
(a)   All systems facilities erected, constructed or placed by the company
within the municipality shall be located so as not to interfere with the proper
use of the streets, alleys, and other public ways and places, and to cause
minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of property
owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or public ways and places,
and not to interfere with existing public utility installations. All service
lines shall be underground in those areas of the municipality where both
utilities providing telephone or electric service are underground at the time
of installation. In areas where telephone or electric utility facilities are
above ground at the time of installation, the company may install its service
above ground. If, subsequently, the telephone and/or electric utility
facilities go underground, the affected facilities of the company shall go
underground simultaneously.
(b)   In case of any disturbances of pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other
surfacing, the company shall, at its own expense, and in the manner required by
the municipal ordinances or policies, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk,
driveway or other surface of any street or alley disturbed. In case of any
disturbance on either private or public property, the land surface, including
plantings and trees, shall be restored by the company to substantially its
previous condition.
(c)   If at any time during the period of the franchise the municipality shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade or location of any street, alley,
or other public ways, the company shall, upon reasonable notice by the
municipality, remove, relay, and relocate affected system facilities at its own
expense, and in each instance comply with the requirements of the municipality.
(d)   The company shall not place system facilities above or below ground where
the same will interfere with any gas, electric, telephone fixtures, water
hydrants or other utility, and all such poles, conduits or other fixtures
placed in any street shall be so placed as to comply with all ordinances of the
municipality.
(e)   The company may be required by the municipality to permit joint use of
poles owned by company located in the streets, alleys or other public right-of-
way of the municipality by utilities insofar as such joint use may be
reasonably practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefor.
(f)   The company shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by the municipality, temporarily move affected system facilities to
permit the moving of buildings, the expense of such temporary removal to be
paid by the person requesting such removal, and the company shall be given not
less than seventy-two (72) hours' advance notice to arrange for such temporary
changes.
(g)   The company shall have the authority, except when in conflict with
existing municipality ordinances, to trim any trees upon and overhanging public
right-of-way so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact
with system facilities, except that at the option of the municipality after
notification to the company such trimming may be done by it, or under its
supervision and direction, at the expense of the company.
(h)   The municipality shall have the right to install and maintain free of
charge upon any pole owned by the company its own equipment, including but not
limited to, a police and fire system and emergency services disaster agency, on
the condition that such equipment does not interfere with the company's
establishment construction, operation and maintenance of the System. The
municipality shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the company against and
from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits, proceedings, damages, costs
or liabilities of any kind and nature whatsoever arising out of such use of the
company's poles, conduits, or other property.
(i)   If the company seeks to construct and maintain its cables and other
system facilities on or above public or private property, and an easement for
such use has already been granted to a telephone company, electric or other
public utility, said easement shall, if at all possible, be interpreted so as
to grant the company the same rights and privileges as have been granted to the
telephone and electric companies and other public utilities. In such easements,
the words "telephone" or "telephone company", "electric company", and the like,
shall be interpreted to include the company. The company shall not be required
to install cable to service areas where the required easements are not
reasonably obtainable.
Section 12. Business office and service calls.
(a)   The company shall establish, operate and maintain in the municipality a
business office and agent for the purpose of receiving inquiries, requests and
complaints concerning all aspects of the establishment, construction,
maintenance and operation of the system and the payment of subscribers' service
charges. The office shall have a listed telephone and shall be open during
reasonable business hours. The company must receive service calls on a twenty-
four-hour basis.
(b)   The company will allow the city to air a reasonable number of public
service announcements each year. The company will provide the production
services.
(c)   The company shall respond to and resolve subscribers' complaints or
requests for service in connection with repairs and maintenance and
malfunctions of system facilities. The company shall respond as soon as
possible on such complaints or requests, but in any event not more than twenty-
four (24) hours after receipt of the complaint.
(d)   The company shall file with the municipality copies of all of its rules
and regulations in connection with the handling of inquiries, requests and
complaints. The company shall, in writing, furnish to subscribers at the time
they connect to the system information concerning procedures for making
inquiries, requests and complaints about the system. The information shall at
least include names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the business office
and agent. The company shall provide such information as will reasonably permit
subscribers to effectively submit inquiries, requests and complaints and to
obtain satisfactory resolution or handling in connection therewith, especially
in connection with the quality of the company's delivery of services.
(e)   The company shall keep full records in connection with all complaints and
requests for service in connection with the system. Minimally, such records
shall identify the person in contact, the subject matter in question or the
action taken by the company in connection with the contract.
Section 13. Supervision of the company.
(a)   Unless specifically otherwise provided in this ordinance, or unless the
municipality shall otherwise specify, all administrative actions required to be
taken or which shall or may be taken by the municipality in connection with the
system shall be taken by the city manager or such other person designated by
the city manager.
(b)   Unless specifically otherwise provided in this ordinance, or unless the
municipality shall otherwise provide, all filings with the municipality
required by this ordinance shall be made the city manager or such other person
designated by the city manager.
Section 14. Liability, insurance and indemnity.
(a)   The company hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and save whole and
harmless the municipality and its officers and employees from liabilities and
related expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) of any kind which may
arise out of or from the establishment, construction, operation and maintenance
of the system or system facilities or the execution and implementation of this
ordinance. The municipality shall notify the company in the event any person
shall in any way notify the municipality of any claim or demand in connection
with the system, the system facilities or this ordinance from which the company
may be subject to liability under this section or otherwise. The undertaking in
connection with the subsection (a) includes liabilities or claims of liability
with respect to property damage, personal injury, invasion of the right of
privacy, defamation of any person, the violation or infringement of any
copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent, or of any other right
of any person, and failure of the company to comply with the provisions of any
federal, state or local statute, ordinance, rule or regulation applicable to
the company in connection with this ordinance. The company shall have the right
to defend, settle, or compromise any claims or demands arising hereunder and
the municipality shall cooperate fully therein.
(b)   The company shall keep the system and system facilities continuously
insured against such risks as are customarily insured against by businesses of
like size and type, including but not limited to:
            (i)   Insurance upon the repair or replacement basis if available,
and otherwise to the full insurable value of the system facilities (with
reasonable deductible provisions) against loss or damage by fire and
lightening, with uniform standard extended coverage endorsement, limited only
as may be provided in the standard form of extended coverage endorsement at the
time in use in the state.
            (ii)   Insurance to the extent of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence against liability for bodily injury including
death and to the extent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per
occurrence against liability for damage to property including loss of use,
occurring on, arising out of or in any way related to the system and system
facilities.
            (iii)   During any period of construction, adequate coverage to
meet liability under the Illinois Structural Work Act.
            (iv)   Workmen's compensation insurance within statutory limits and
employer's liability insurance of not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00).
            (v)   Comprehensive automobile liability insurance to the extent of
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence against liability for bodily
injury including death and to the extent of three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) per occurrence against liability for damage to property including
loss of use occurring on, arising out of, or in any way related to the system.
This subsection (b) shall not be a limit on the company's undertaking provided
in subsection (a) of this section.
(c)   The company shall have the municipality and its officers and employees
included as additional insureds on all insurance policies referred to in this
section. The company shall file with the municipality insurance certificates
verifying the required coverage under such policies. All such policies shall
provide that the issuing insurance company will not cancel them without thirty
(30) days' prior written notice to the company and the municipality. All such
policies shall be taken out and maintained with generally recognized
responsible insurance companies qualified to do business in the state of
Illinois and carrying a rating of A-11 in the most recent publication of Best's
Insurance Guide.
Section 15. Right to privacy.
(a)   Neither the company nor any other person, agency, or entity shall monitor
or arrange for the monitoring of any cable line, signal input device, or
subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose other than the provision of
service or services or the preventive maintenance of the system without the
specific authorization of affected subscribers. In all respects in connection
with the system, the company and the municipality shall protect the rights of
privacy of subscribers consistent with the requirements of the Cable Act,
federal, state and local law and regulations.
Section 16. Compliance with local, state and federal jurisdiction.
(a)   The company shall establish, construct, operate and maintain the system
subject to the reasonable supervision of the municipality, and in strict
compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(b)   If at any time the powers of the municipality, state or federal
government or any agency or office thereof in connection with the system are
duly transferred to or later reside in any other board, authority, agency or
official, shall have the power rights and duties previously vested in addition
to any other which they may acquire.
(c)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, the company shall
at all times comply with all state and federal laws, rules and regulations, or
any administrative agency thereof; provided, however, if any such ordinance,
law, rule or regulation shall require the company to perform any service in
conflict with the provisions and terms of this ordinance or of any law, rule or
regulations, then as soon as possible following knowledge thereof the company
shall notify the municipality of the point of conflict believed to exist.
Section 17. Establishment, construction and operation.
(a)   Upon acceptance pursuant to section 27 of this ordinance, the company
shall expeditiously proceed to establish, construct and operate the system in
accordance with the terms provided herein.
(b)   The time for the establishment, construction and operation of the system
and the provision of services to subscribers as provided in section 9 of this
ordinance shall be in accordance with the schedule set forth attached hereto
and designated as Schedule C [Not set out herein].
Section 18. Assignment or transfer.
(a)   The company shall not be permitted to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose
of the franchise, without the prior written consent of the city, except that
transfers to a corporation which merges with the company, acquires
substantially all of the assets of the company, owns more than fifty percent
(50%) of the stock of which is owned by persons or entitles that own over fifty
percent (50%) of this stock of the company shall not require the consent of the
municipality.
(b)   The consent or approval of the municipality to any such assignment,
lease, transfer, sub-lease, pledge or mortgage shall not constitute a waiver or
lease of the rights of the municipality in and to public right-of-way.
(c)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a mortgage or pledge of system
facilities or any part thereof or a leasing by the company of system facilities
or part thereof for financing purposes in connection with construction of the
system. Any such mortgage, pledge or lease shall be subject and subordinate to
the rights of the municipality and subscriber under this ordinance.
Section 19. Revocation.
(a)   In addition to all other rights, powers or remedies pertaining to the
municipality in connection with this ordinance or otherwise, the municipality
reserves the rights to terminate, cancel and revoke the franchise and all
rights and privileges of the company under this ordinance in the event the
company:
            (i)   Violates any material provisions of this ordinance or any
rule, order or determination of the municipality made pursuant to this
ordinance, except where such violation, other than of subsection (ii) or (iii)
below, is without fault of the company or through excusable neglect; or,
            (ii)   Becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or
is adjudged bankrupt; or
            (iii)   Fails for a seven-day period to provide service to all
subscribers in the service area except for strikes, war, civil commotions, acts
of God, or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the company; or
            (iv)   Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this ordinance or
practices any fraud or deceit upon the municipality or subscribers; or
            (v)   Fails to establish, construct and operate the system
substantially in compliance with schedule in subsection (b) of section 17 of
this ordinance, due consideration having been given the nature and cause of any
delays.
(b)   Such termination, cancellation and revocation shall be by ordinance after
a hearing before the council. The municipality shall give the company at least
sixty (60) days notice of the hearing. The company shall have an opportunity
before the council to be fully heard and be given a reasonable period of time,
not to exceed ninety (90) days, to cure any and all defaults, omissions,
breaches, or causes for termination, cancellation or revocation. The council
shall make findings of fact in connection with any termination, cancellation or
revocation.
(c)   Upon expiration, or termination, cancellation or revocation of this
franchise, if the company has not been granted an extension or renewal thereof
and accepted the same, the company may enter upon the streets of the
municipality for the purpose of removing therefrom its property and otherwise,
in removing its property, the company shall within six (6) months, at its own
expense, leave the streets in as nearly as possible as good a condition as that
prevailing immediately prior to the company's removal of its property. This
shall not be a limit upon any other remedies the municipality may have in
connection with the company's performance under this ordinance.
Section 20. Reservation of rights.
(a)   Renewal of the franchise granted by this ordinance shall be governed by
and comply with the provisions of Section 626 of the Cable Act as such existed
as of the effective date of the Cable Act, unless the procedures and
substantive protections set forth therein shall be deemed to be preempted or
superseded by provisions of any subsequent federal or state law. Should the
provisions of Section 626 of the Cable Act be eliminated and not superseded or
preempted by some subsequent federal or state law then the grantee and the
municipality agree that:
            (a)   During the six-month period which begins with the 36th month
before the franchise expiration, the franchising authority may on its own
initiative, and shall at the request of the cable operator, commence
proceedings which afford the public in the franchise area appropriate notice
and participation for the purpose of-
   (1)   Identifying the future cable-related community needs and interests;
and
   (2)   Reviewing the performance of the cable operator under the franchise
during the then-current franchise term.
            (b)   (1) Upon completion of a proceeding under subsection (a), a
cable operator seeking renewal of a franchise may, on its own initiative or at
the request of a franchising authority, submit a proposal for renewal.
   (2)   Subject to Section 624 of the Cable Act, any such proposal shall
contain such material as the franchising authority may require, including
proposals for an upgrade of the cable system.
   (3)   The franchising authority may establish a date by which such proposal
shall be submitted.
            (c)   (1) Upon submittal by a cable operator of a proposal to the
franchising authority for the renewal of a franchise, the franchising authority
shall provide prompt public notice of such proposal and, during the four-month
period which begins on the completion of any proceedings under subsection (a),
renew the franchise or, issue a preliminary assessment that the franchise
should not be renewed and, at the request of the operator or on its own
initiative, commence an administrative proceeding, after providing prompt
public notice of such proceeding, in accordance with paragraph (2) to consider
whether-
(A) The cable operator has substantially complied with the material terms of
the existing franchise and with applicable law;
(B) The quality of the operator's service, including signal quality, response
to consumer complaints, and billing practices, but without regard to the mix,
quality, or level of cable services or other services provided over the system,
has been reasonable in light of community needs;
(C) The operator has the financial, legal, and technical ability to provide the
services, facilities, and equipment as set forth in the operator's proposal;
and
(D) The operator's proposal is reasonable to meet the future cable-related
community needs and interests, taking into account the cost of meeting such
needs and interests.
   (2)   In any proceeding under paragraph (1), the cable operator shall be
afforded adequate notice and the cable operator and the franchise authority, or
its designee shall be afforded fair opportunity for full participation,
including the right to introduce evidence (including evidence related to issues
raised in the proceeding under subsection (a)), to require the production of
evidence, and to question witnesses. A transcript shall be made of any such
proceeding.
   (3)   At the completion of a proceeding under this subsection, the
franchising authority shall issue a written decision granting or denying the
proposal for renewal based upon the record of such proceeding, and transmit a
copy of such decision to the cable operator. Such decision shall state the
reasons therefor.
            (d)   Any denial of a proposal for renewal shall be based on one
(1) or more adverse findings made with respect to the factors described in
subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (c)(1), pursuant to the record of
the proceeding under subsection (c). A franchising authority may not base a
denial of renewal on a failure to substantially comply with the material terms
of the franchise under subsection (c)(1)(A) or on events considered under
subsection (c)(1)(B) in any case in which a violation of the franchise or the
events considered under subsection (c)(1)(B) occur after the effective date of
this title unless the franchising authority has provided the operator with
notice and the opportunity to cure, or in any case in which it is documented
that the franchising authority has waived its right to object, or has
effectively acquiesced.
            (e)   (1) Any cable operator whose proposal for renewal has been
denied by a final decision of a franchising authority made pursuant to this
section, or has been adversely affected by a failure of the franchising
authority to act in accordance with the procedural requirements of this
section, may appeal such final decision or failure pursuant to the provisions
of Section 635 of the Cable Act.
   (2)   The court shall grant appropriate relief if the court finds that-
(A) Any action of the franchising authority is not in compliance with the
procedural requirements of this section; or
(B) In the event of a final decision of the franchising authority denying the
renewal proposal, the operator has demonstrated that the adverse finding of the
franchising authority with respect to each of the factors described in
subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (c)(1) on which the denial is based
is not supported by a preponderance of the evidence, based on the record of the
proceeding conducted under subsection (c).
            (f)   Any decision of a franchising authority on a proposal for
renewal shall not be considered final unless all administrative review by the
state has occurred or the opportunity therefor has lapsed.
            (g)   For purposes of this section, the term "franchise expiration"
means the date of the expiration of the term of the franchise, as provided
under the franchise, as it was in effect on the date of the enactment of this
title.
            (h)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) through (g)
of this section, a cable operator may submit a proposal for the renewal of a
franchise pursuant to this subsection at any time, and a franchising authority
may, after affording the public adequate notice and opportunity for comment,
grant or deny such proposal at any (including proceedings pursuant to this
section have commenced). The provisions of subsections (a) through (g) of this
section shall not apply to a decision to grant or deny a proposal under this
subsection. The denial of a renewal pursuant to this subsection shall not
affect action on a renewal proposal submitted in accordance with subsections
(a) through (g).
(b)   In addition to the specific rights of inspection otherwise provided for
in this ordinance, the municipality shall also have the right to make such
inspections as it shall find necessary to insure compliance with the terms,
provisions, and conditions of this ordinance and other relevant provisions of
law.
(c)   From time to time the municipality may amend this ordinance. No such
amendment shall be effective as to the company until the company files with the
municipality an acceptance, with specific references to the ordinance amending
this ordinance, substantially in the form set forth in section 27.
(d)   In the event the company fails to perform in accordance with any of the
provisions of this ordinance and the franchise is revoked as provided in
section 19, then it is understood and agreed that the municipality shall be
entitled to the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) as liquidated
damages. The company shall have a period not to exceed ninety (90) days to cure
any and all defaults, omissions, breaches or causes of revocation.
Section 21. Termination of service.
Upon termination of system service to any subscriber, the company, upon written
request, shall without charge promptly remove all system facilities from the
property of such subscriber.
Section 22. Construction.
Principles concerning the construction and interpretation of this ordinance
shall be as follows:
(a)   All ordinance or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this
ordinance are to that extent hereby repealed.
(b)   If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof is for any
reason held invalid, illegal, unconstitutional, or unenforceable, such holding
shall not affect the remainder of this ordinance to any extent, each provision
of this ordinance being a separate, distant and independent part.
(c)   In connection with all decisions to be taken or made under this ordinance
by the municipality, due consideration shall be given the respective interests
of the municipality, the company, subscribers and potential subscribers. The
interests of potential subscribers except for potential subscribers who have
not refused system service, shall be secondary to the interests of subscribers,
the company and the municipality.
(d)   To the extent that any fee or monetary payment by the company or another
person under this ordinance shall be declared or found to be excessive as
relates to a license or franchise, such fees or monetary payments shall be
considered to be taxes.
(e)   Words in the present tense include the future.
(f)   Words importing the singular number may extend to and include plural,
words importing the plural number may extend to and include the singular, and
words in the masculine gender shall include female gender.
(g)   The company shall not be excused from complying with any of the terms,
conditions and provisions of this ordinance by any failure of the municipality
upon any one or more occasions to insist upon or to seek compliance with any
such terms, conditions or provisions.
(h)   The specification in this section of principles to apply in the
construction and interpretation of this ordinance shall not be a limitation as
to others.
(i)   Whenever this ordinance shall set forth any time for any act to be
performed by or on behalf of the company, such time may be deemed of the
essence and any failure of the company to perform within time allotted may be
sufficient grounds for the municipality to terminate, cancel and revoke the
grant or use other remedies.
Section 23. Public buildings.
The company agrees to and shall furnish without installation charge on a
standard installation not greater than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet from
existing cable system and monthly service fee, basic service, a live connection
and one (1) converter to the city hall and one connection to all fire houses,
public works buildings, and any other municipal buildings designated by the
city council; to all library buildings; and to all public and parochial
elementary, secondary and college level schools located within the
municipality. The public buildings so served shall be responsible for all
additional internal wiring from such energized connection source.
Section 24. Notices.
All notices herein provided for shall be sent prepaid registered or certified
mail addressed to the parties as follows:
To the city:
City Manager
City of Rock Island
1528 Third Avenue
Rock Island, IL 61201
To the company:
TCI of Illinois, Inc.
2750 11th Street
Rock Island, IL 61201
With a copy to:
TCI Great Lakes, Inc.
Attn: Franchise Director
111 Pfingsten Road, Suite 400
Deerfield, IL 60015
Section 25. Exclusive jurisdiction.
(a)   No community antenna television system shall be erected, maintained or
operated in the City of Rock Island without the passage of a franchise
ordinance granting the same.
(b)   Upon enactment of this ordinance, the following actions by any person,
corporation or unincorporated association shall be unlawful and subject to
criminal penalty as described in subsection (iii) below:
            (i)   The unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electronically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of a
system facilities within the municipality for the purpose of taking or
receiving television or radio signals, pictures, programs or sounds, or for the
purpose of enabling others to receive such signals, pictures, programs or
sounds.
            (ii)   The willful tampering with, removal of, or injury to any
cables, wires or equipment, used for distribution of television or radio
signals, pictures, programs or sounds without consent of the system owner.
            (iii)   Violators of the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of the provisions of this section is committed, continued or
permitted shall be deemed a separate offense and upon conviction of any such
violation, such violator shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment. Any equipment or structure
erected or maintained and any work commenced or continued in violation of this
ordinance shall be and is hereby declared unlawful.
(c)   This ordinance shall become effective on October 1, 1994.
Section 26. Acceptance:
(a)   Except as expressly provided otherwise in this ordinance, the company
herein shall have no recourse whatsoever against the municipality for any loss,
cost or expense or damages arising out of the terms, conditions and provisions
or requirements of this ordinance or because of the municipality's enforcement
of this ordinance.
(b)   The company expressly acknowledges that upon accepting the right,
privilege and franchise granted by this ordinance, it did so relying upon its
own investigation and understanding of the power and authority of the
municipality in connection with the system and this ordinance. By the
acceptance of this franchise, the company agrees that it will not at any time
set up against the municipality in any claim or proceeding any provision,
condition or term of this ordinance as unreasonable, arbitrary or void or that
the municipality had in power of authority to make such provision, term or
condition a part of this ordinance.
(c)   The company by acceptance of the right, privilege and franchise under
this ordinance, acknowledges that it has not been induced to enter into the
franchise by any understanding or provision or other statement whether verbal
or written by or on behalf of the municipality concerning any term or condition
of this franchise not expressed herein.
(d)   The company further acknowledges by acceptance of the right, privilege
and franchise that it has carefully read the terms and conditions of this
ordinance and is willing to and does accept all reasonable risks of the meaning
of the provisions, terms and conditions herein.
(e)   In the event the company shall accept the right, privilege and franchise
to establish, construct, operate and maintain the system in accordance with and
pursuant to the provisions, terms and conditions of this ordinance, the company
shall execute an acceptance in substantially the form as follows:
CITY OF ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS      TCI OF ILLINOIS, INC.
BY:                                                BY:
                         
City Manager   Authorized Representative
DATE:       DATE:                       
ATTEST:       ATTEST:                       
City Clerk
DATE:       DATE:                       
ARTICLE II. GAS
Sec. 1. Purpose:
The franchise heretofore granted to Iowa Illinois Gas and Electric Company, to
acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the city of Rock Island,
Illinois ("city"), is extended in the name of MidAmerican Energy Company ("the
company") for a period of five (5) years, such that said amended franchise
shall continue in effect until December 12, 2024, at which time said franchise
shall terminate and expire. Upon approval and acceptance by the company of this
amended franchise the terms of this amended franchise shall become binding upon
the parties in substitution of the franchise granted in 1994. The city hereby
extends and grants the company a franchise to acquire, construct, erect,
maintain and operate in the city of Rock Island, Rock Island County, Illinois
("city"), the necessary facilities for the production, distribution,
transmission and sale of natural gas for public and private use; to use and
occupy the public streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges and rights of way
of the city for such purposes. The city council reserves to itself the right to
extend this franchise to other public places upon request of the company. (Ord.
090-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 2. Definitions:
As used in this ordinance, the following terms, phrases and words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section, unless the context
or use clearly indicates another or different meaning is intended:
City: The city of Rock Island.
Clerk: The clerk of the city of Rock Island.
Competent Authority: Means and includes any governmental body or forum vested
by law with authority to do the act and make the order, rule or regulation
involved.
Corporate Authorities: The mayor and city council of the city of Rock Island.
ICC: The Illinois commerce commission or other authority succeeding to the
regulatory powers of the Illinois commerce commission.
Liability: Includes, but is not limited to, actual or claimed loss or damage to
property or injury to or death of persons; actual or claimed responsibility for
such loss, damage, injury or death; and any and all judgments, decrees, costs
and expenses of every sort and kind incident to such loss, damage, injury,
death or responsibility, including, but not limited to, court costs, fines and
attorney fees.
Licensee: MidAmerican Energy Company.
MidAmerican Energy Representative: The person or persons, designated by the
licensee, responsible for the day to day performance of the licensee's duties
under this ordinance and who shall be available and accessible to the city.
Municipal Representative: The person or persons designated by the city to be
responsible for the implementation of this ordinance on behalf of the city.
Natural Gas System: A system for the transportation, distribution and sale of
natural gas for lighting, heating, power and other purposes within the
corporate limits of the city.
Other Ways: Rights of way within the city that are under the jurisdiction and
control of a governmental entity other than the city.
Person: One or more individuals, associations, firms, partnerships, trusts,
private corporations, municipal corporations, receivers, or trustees.
Public Property: All real property and all improvements thereon, owned, leased
to, leased by or otherwise controlled by the city.
Public Ways: The surface, the air space above the surface and the area below
the surface of any public right of way, including, but not limited to, any
street, highway, avenue, drive, boulevard, lane, path, alley, waterway, bridge,
tunnel, park, parkway or other public right of way including public utility
easements or rights of way over which the city has jurisdiction, and any
temporary or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or
hereafter held by the city in which the city holds rights sufficient, without
consent of any other person, to permit licensee the use thereof for the purpose
of installing or maintaining licensee's natural gas system.
Utility Facilities: Include, but are not limited to, licensee's land,
structures, and systems located within the city and used in the transportation,
distribution or delivery of natural gas. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 3. Rules Of Construction:
(a)   This ordinance shall be construed in accordance with the following
provisions:
   (1)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future tense, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
   (2)   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and the word "may" is
permissive.
   (3)   The provisions of this ordinance shall be read as a whole so as to
effect the purposes of this ordinance.
   (4)   Section headings are descriptive and used merely for the purpose of
organization. Where inconsistent with the text, section headings are to be
disregarded. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 4. Rights Granted:
(a)   Grant Of Right To Use Public Ways And Public Property: The city hereby
grants to the licensee the right, permission and authority to construct,
operate and maintain in and through the city the licensee's natural gas system
and to construct, operate and maintain all such utility facilities as may be
necessary or convenient for such natural gas system, in, upon, along, over,
across, above and under the public ways and public property in the city, for
the period of time and upon the terms and conditions hereinafter specified.
(b)   Emergency Access To Public Ways And Public Property: In the event of an
emergency which the licensee reasonably believes poses a threat of immediate
harm to the public, to the reliability of gas service, or to any of the utility
facilities, the licensee is hereby granted access to the public ways and public
property, without a permit, to ameliorate the threatened harm. The licensee
shall promptly advise the city of the emergency.
(c)   Exemption From Parking Restrictions: While used in the course of
installation, repair and maintenance work on the utility facilities, licensee's
vehicles shall be exempt from parking restrictions of the city. (Ord. 090-2008,
§ 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 5. Conditions Of Grant:
(a)   Construction And Location Of Facilities:
   (1)   The licensee or any person acting on its behalf may construct, repair,
maintain, renew or replace utility facilities located in the public ways, on
public property, or on other ways, subject to the following conditions:
      a.   The licensee shall obtain a permit in accordance with the applicable
ordinances of the city. The licensee shall include with its permit application
such plans and schedules for restoration of the public ways or public property
as the city may reasonably require by ordinance.
      b.   The licensee shall obtain all necessary approvals from any competent
authority for the performance of said work, and such work shall be performed in
accordance with the plans and specifications approved or prescribed by the
competent authority.
   (2)   Unless specifically permitted by the city, all utility facilities
erected under this ordinance shall be located so as not to injure any drains,
sewers, catch basins, water pipes, pavements or other public improvements.
   (3)   Any utility facilities in the public ways that have been, or are at
any future time, acquired, leased or utilized in any manner by the licensee are
deemed authorized by and subject to this ordinance.
   (4)   The location and depth below the public ways of the existing utility
facilities within the city are hereby approved.
(b)   Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities:
   (1)   Upon receiving at least thirty (30) days' notice from the city, the
licensee shall, at no expense to the city, temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities in public ways
whenever the corporate authorities shall have determined that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration: a) is reasonably necessary for the public use
of such public ways; b) is reasonably necessary for the public use of other
property of the city; c) is reasonably necessary for the operations of the
city; or d) is reasonably necessary for the redevelopment of city property
located in the east/west alley connecting 19th and 20th Streets south of 1st
Avenue; provided, however, that in item d of this subsection licensee shall not
be required to bear the costs to remove, relocate, change or alter the position
of its utility facilities in an amount greater than the cumulative public
financial support contributed to the redevelopment project. The city will make
reasonable effort to engineer any such project either so as not to require any
such removal, relocation, change or alteration or, if that is not reasonably
feasible, so as to minimize the licensee's expenses in making such removals,
changes or alterations.
(c)   Restoration Of Public Ways Or Public Property:
   (1)   When the licensee, or any person acting on its behalf, does any work
in or affecting the public ways or public property, it shall, at no expense to
the city, restore such public ways or public property according to chapter 13,
article III, division 2, of this code.
   (2)   If the licensee fails to restore the public ways or public property as
required by subsection (c)(1) of this section, the city may, after
communications with the MidAmerican Energy representative and after affording
the licensee a reasonable opportunity to correct the situation, give seven (7)
days' written notice to the licensee, and thereafter restore at licensee's cost
such public ways or public property. No such prior written notice shall be
required in the event that the city determines that an emergency situation
exists.
(d)   Abandoned Facilities: The licensee shall, as soon as practicable, remove
from the public ways and public property all aboveground facilities and
supports whose use is abandoned and shall, as soon as practicable, board up or
render reasonably inaccessible all other utility facilities whose use is
abandoned or discontinued. The licensee shall take reasonable steps to prevent
abandoned utility facilities from becoming nuisances. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1, 12-
22-2008)
Sec. 6. Service Considerations:
(a)   Duty To Provide Natural Gas Service: The licensee shall furnish or
transport natural gas within the city to the city, to the inhabitants thereof,
and to any person doing business in the city in accordance with the rates,
tariffs, rules, regulations, terms and conditions approved by the ICC from time
to time. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 7. Administration:
(a)   Representatives:
   (1)   The licensee shall maintain such offices and facilities as it deems
adequate for the purposes of providing the city with twenty four (24) hour
service pertaining to the operation of the utility facilities. The licensee
shall provide the city with the telephone number or numbers at which a
MidAmerican Energy representative can be reached twenty four (24) hours a day.
   (2)   The city shall provide the licensee with the telephone number or
numbers at which a municipal representative can be reached twenty four (24)
hours a day.
   (3)   The city and the licensee shall promptly notify the other in the event
that any of the information required under the foregoing sections is changed,
so as to keep such information current at all times while this ordinance
remains in effect.
(b)   Facilities Maps: Upon the request of the city, the licensee shall provide
the city with a current set of maps showing the location of all utility
facilities installed in or under public ways within the corporate limits of the
city, provided that the licensee shall not be required to prepare maps to
comply with this provision if no such maps exist.
(c)   Disclosure Of Documents Or Information: The city agrees that no documents
or information provided to the city by the licensee in accordance with this
ordinance shall be made available to the public if such documents or
information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the freedom of
information act and section 5-108 of the public utilities act, as such statutes
may be amended from time to time.
(d)   Notices:
   (1)   Notice To City: Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from
the licensee to the city under this ordinance shall be made in writing and
mailed to the city manager at the following address:
City Manager
City of Rock Island
1528 3rd Avenue
Rock Island, IL 61201
   (2)   Notice To The Licensee: Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices
from the city to the licensee under this ordinance shall be made in writing and
mailed to its president at the following address:
President
MidAmerican Energy Company
P.O. Box 657
Des Moines, IA 50303
   (3)   Changes In Person Or Place For Notification: In the event that either
the city or the licensee changes the person to whom written notices are to be
directed or the address to which such notices are to be sent, the party making
the change shall promptly notify the other party of such change in writing.
            (e)   Coordination Of Construction Activities: The licensee and the
city shall exercise their best efforts to coordinate to the extent practicable
the timing of the construction activities of each so as to minimize any
inconvenience to the other or to the public that might otherwise occur. At the
written request of the city, the licensee shall meet once each calendar year
with the city and such other users of the public ways as may be invited by the
city to discuss scheduling of construction in the public ways.
            (f)   Notice Of Boundary Changes: The city shall notify the
licensee in writing of any ordinance, statute or court or administrative action
that causes a change in the city's boundaries. Failure to give such notice
excuses the licensee both from noncompliance with this ordinance and from the
noncollection of municipal utility taxes within the area affected until such
notice is given.
            (g)   Notice Of Requests For Rate Changes: The licensee shall
notify the city of any application the licensee files with the ICC to
effectuate any general increase in its gas rates. Upon the written request of
the city, the licensee shall send the city such portions of the application
filed with the ICC as are requested by the city. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1, 12-22-
2008)
Sec. 8. Municipal Rights Reserved:
            (a)   Police Powers: The city expressly reserves the right to
adopt, from time to time, in addition to the provisions contained herein, such
ordinances, rules and regulations as the corporate authorities may deem
necessary in the police power for the protection of the health, safety and
welfare of the city's citizens and their properties.
            (b)   Regulation Of Public Ways: The city expressly reserves the
right to enforce reasonable regulations concerning access to or use of the
public ways, as may from time to time be provided by ordinance, including
requirements for permit applications. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 9. Term And Termination:
            (a)   Term: The franchise granted by this ordinance shall be for a
term of twenty five (25) years from its effective date and is hereby extended
for an additional five (5) year period through December 12, 2024.
            (b)   Acceptance: The licensee shall accept this ordinance by
filing with the clerk an unconditional written acceptance hereof, to be duly
executed according to law. The failure of the licensee to so accept this
ordinance within thirty (30) days of enactment shall be deemed a rejection
hereof by the licensee, and the rights and privileges herein granted shall
absolutely cease and determine unless said period of time shall be extended by
an ordinance duly passed by the corporate authorities for that purpose before
the expiration of the thirty (30) day period.
            (c)   Effective Date: This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect upon the licensee's filing of its acceptance as provided hereinabove or
upon its passage and publication as required by law, whichever is later.
            (d)   Amendments: No revision, modification or amendment of this
ordinance shall be effective unless it has been passed by the corporate
authorities and accepted by the licensee in writing.
            (e)   Termination: Except as otherwise provided herein or by law,
the rights and obligations of the licensee under this ordinance shall terminate
upon the end of the term of this ordinance.
            (f)   Rights Upon Termination:
   (1)   Upon any termination of its rights and obligations under this
ordinance, the licensee shall not refuse to provide natural gas service
pursuant to licensee's tariffs to any potential customers within the city
unless a petition for abandonment has been filed with and approved by the ICC.
   (2)   Notwithstanding the termination of the licensee's rights and
obligations hereunder, by forfeiture or otherwise, the licensee shall remain
subject to all other applicable regulations and authority of the city, without
limitation, as long as the licensee continues to provide natural gas service
within the city or the licensee's utility facilities remain in the public ways
or on public property.
   (3)   Any claims for indemnification for liability incurred by the city, its
boards, committees, commissions, officers, agents and employees arising from
any incidents that occurred on or before the termination of this ordinance
shall survive the termination, provided that such claims for indemnification
are timely made. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 10. Indemnification:
(a)   Indemnification: The licensee shall indemnify and save harmless the city,
its boards, committees, commissions, officers, agents and employees from any
and all liability arising from licensee's negligent placement or negligent
maintenance of its utility facilities in the public ways or on public property
pursuant to this ordinance. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 11. Miscellaneous Provisions:
(a)   Transfer And Assignment:
   (1)   Except in the event of the merger, consolidation or reorganization of
the licensee, the licensee shall not have the right to assign its rights and
privileges under this ordinance or to otherwise transfer it in any manner
whatsoever without the prior written approval of the city pursuant to an
ordinance enacted by the corporate authorities.
   (2)   In the event of a transfer or assignment of the licensee's rights and
privileges under this ordinance, all provisions of this ordinance which are
obligatory upon, or which inure to the benefit of, the licensee shall also be
obligatory upon and shall inure to the benefit of any and all successors and
assigns of the licensee.
(b)   Ordinance As Contract: This ordinance shall have the effect of and shall
be a contract between the city and the licensee and shall be a measure of the
rights and obligations of the city as well as of the licensee.
(c)   Paramount Regulatory Authority: The licensee and the city understand that
the general operations of the licensee are under the jurisdiction of the ICC
and the federal energy regulatory commission. The licensee has agreed to
perform the duties and obligations set forth in this ordinance, provided that
such performance does not violate any applicable regulatory provision or any
applicable statutes, ordinances, judgments or decrees of any administrative or
judicial tribunal.
(d)   Scope Of Ordinance: No privilege or exemption is granted or conferred to
licensee by this ordinance unless specifically provided herein. The permission
and authority granted by this ordinance are not intended to limit or modify any
agreement, franchise, license or permit previously granted by the city to any
other person for the use or occupancy of the public ways, and the licensee
shall therefore exercise the rights granted by this ordinance in such a manner
as shall neither unreasonably interfere with the rights nor endanger or impair
the property of other contractors, franchisees, licensees and permittees in the
public ways. The city agrees to require other contractors, franchisees,
licensees and permittees of the city to exercise their rights under such
agreements, franchises, licenses and permits in such a manner as shall neither
unreasonably interfere with the rights nor endanger or impair utility
facilities of the licensee located in the public ways.
(e)   Severability: If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this
ordinance shall be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect any of the other provisions of this
ordinance.
(f)   Repealer: All ordinances, resolutions or orders, or parts thereof, in
conflict with the provisions of this ordinance, or containing provisions
granting any right, privilege or lien to the licensee or to any of its
predecessor companies are hereby repealed.
(g)   Force Majeure: The licensee shall not be deemed in violation of this
ordinance for the delay in performance or failure to perform in whole or in
part its obligations under this ordinance due to strike, war or act of war
(whether an actual declaration is made or not), insurrection, riot, act of
public enemy, fire, flood or other act of God or by other events to the extent
that such events are caused by circumstances beyond the licensee's control and
are not caused by gross negligence on the part of the licensee or any person
acting on its behalf. In the event that the delay in performance or failure to
perform affects only part of the licensee's capacity to perform its obligations
under this ordinance, the licensee shall perform such obligations to the extent
it is able to do so in as expeditious a manner as possible. Licensee shall
promptly notify the municipal representative in writing of an event covered by
this section and the date, nature and cause thereof. Furthermore, licensee, in
such notice, shall indicate the anticipated extent of such delay and the
obligations under this ordinance to be affected thereby. (Ord. 090-2008, § 1,
12-22-2008)
ARTICLE III. ELECTRICITY
Sec. 1. Purpose:
The franchise heretofore granted to Iowa Illinois Gas and Electric Company, to
acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in the city of Rock Island,
Illinois ("city"), is extended in the name of MidAmerican Energy Company ("the
company") for a period of five (5) years, such that said amended franchise
shall continue in effect until December 12, 2024, at which time said franchise
shall terminate and expire. Upon approval and acceptance by the company of this
amended franchise the terms of this amended franchise shall become binding upon
the parties in substitution of the franchise granted in 1994. The city hereby
extends and grants the company a franchise to acquire, construct, erect,
maintain and operate in the city of Rock Island, Rock Island County, Illinois
("city"), the necessary facilities for the production, distribution,
transmission and sale of electric energy for public and private use; to use and
occupy the public streets, highways, avenues, alleys, bridges and rights of way
of the city for such purposes. The city council reserves to itself the right to
extend this franchise to other public places upon request of the company. (Ord.
089-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 2. Definitions:
As used in this ordinance, the following terms, phrases and words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section, unless the context
or use clearly indicates another or different meaning is intended:
City: The city of Rock Island.
Clerk: The clerk of the city of Rock Island.
Competent Authority: Means and includes any governmental body or forum vested
by law with authority to do the act or make the order, rule or regulation
involved.
Corporate Authorities: The mayor and city council of the city of Rock Island.
Electric System: A system for the production, transmission, distribution and
sale of electricity for lighting, heating, power and other purposes within the
corporate limits of the city.
Generating Facilities: Those facilities used or constructed by the licensee for
the purpose of generating or producing electric energy.
ICC: The Illinois commerce commission or other authority succeeding to the
regulatory powers of the Illinois commerce commission.
Liability: Includes, but is not limited to, actual or claimed loss or damage to
property or injury to or death of persons; actual or claimed responsibility for
such loss, damage, injury or death; and any and all judgments, decrees, costs
and expenses of every sort and kind incident to such loss, damage, injury,
death or responsibility, including, but not limited to, court costs, fines and
attorney fees.
Licensee: MidAmerican Energy Company.
MidAmerican Energy Representative: The person or persons, designated by the
licensee, responsible for the performance of the licensee's duties under this
ordinance and who shall be available and accessible to the city.
Municipal Representative: The person or persons designated by the city to be
responsible for the implementation of this ordinance on behalf of the city.
Other Ways: Rights of way within the city that are under the jurisdiction and
control of a governmental entity other than the city.
Person: One or more individuals, associations, firms, partnerships, trusts,
private corporations, municipal corporations, receivers, or trustees.
Public Property: All real property and all improvements thereon, owned, leased
to, leased by or otherwise controlled by the city.
Public Ways: The surface, the air space above the surface and the area below
the surface of any public right of way, including, but not limited to, any
street, highway, avenue, drive, boulevard, lane, path, alley, waterway, bridge,
tunnel, park, parkway or other public right of way including public utility
easements or rights of way over which the city has jurisdiction, and any
temporary or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or
hereafter held by the city in which the city holds rights sufficient, without
consent of any other person, to permit licensee the use thereof for the purpose
of installing or maintaining licensee's electric system.
Utility Facilities: Include, but are not limited to, licensee's land,
structures, equipment, and systems located within the city and used in the
generation, production, transportation, distribution or delivery of
electricity. (Ord. 089-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 3. Rules Of Construction:
(a)   This ordinance shall be construed in accordance with the following
provisions:
   (1)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future tense, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
   (2)   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and the word "may" is
permissive.
   (3)   The provisions of this ordinance shall be read as a whole so as to
effect the purposes of this ordinance.
   (4)   Section headings are descriptive and used merely for the purpose of
organization. Where inconsistent with the text, section headings are to be
disregarded. (Ord. 089-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 4. Rights Granted:
(a)   Grant Of Right To Use Public Ways And Public Property: The city hereby
grants to the licensee the right, permission and authority to construct,
operate and maintain in and through the city the licensee's electric system and
to construct, operate and maintain all such utility facilities as may be
necessary or convenient for such electric system, in, upon, along, over,
across, above and under the public ways and public property in the city, for
the period of time and upon the terms and conditions hereinafter specified.
(b)   Emergency Access To Public Ways And Public Property: In the event of an
emergency which the licensee reasonably believes poses a threat of immediate
harm to the public, to the reliability of electric service, or to any of the
utility facilities, the licensee is hereby granted access to the public ways
and public property, without a permit, to ameliorate the threatened harm. The
licensee shall promptly advise the city of the emergency.
(c)   Exemption From Parking Restrictions: While used in the course of
installation, repair and maintenance work on the utility facilities, licensee's
vehicles shall be exempt from parking restrictions of the city. (Ord. 089-2008,
§ 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 5. Conditions Of Grant:
(a)   Construction And Location Of Facilities:
   (1)   The licensee or any person acting on its behalf may construct, repair,
maintain, renew or replace utility facilities located in the public ways, on
public property, or on other ways, subject to the following conditions:
      a.   The licensee shall obtain a permit in accordance with the applicable
ordinances of the city. The licensee shall include with its permit application
such plans and schedules for restoration of the public ways or public property
as the city may reasonably require by ordinance.
      b.   The licensee shall obtain all necessary approvals from any competent
authority for the performance of said work, and such work shall be performed in
accordance with the plans and specifications approved or prescribed by the
competent authority.
   (2)   After the effective date of this ordinance, electric service lines at
or below seven thousand six hundred twenty (7,620) volts installed in new
subdivisions shall be placed underground. New (but not replacement) overhead
electric service lines at or below seven thousand six hundred twenty (7,620)
volts, of a length of one block or more, and installed in the city but outside
new subdivisions, shall be discussed with the city prior to installation,
except in the case of emergency. Underground facilities shall be placed so as
not to interfere unnecessarily with travel on or access to the public ways.
   (3)   Unless specifically permitted by the city, all utility facilities
installed under this ordinance shall be located so as not to injure any drains,
sewers, catch basins, water pipes, pavements or other public improvements.
   (4)   Any utility facilities in the public ways that have been, or are at
any future time, acquired, leased or utilized in any manner by the licensee are
deemed authorized by and subject to this ordinance.
   (5)   Prior to filing any application with a competent authority for the
construction of any generating facilities or transmission lines of sixty nine
thousand (69,000) volts or greater within the city, the licensee shall meet
with the city to discuss such plans.
(b)   Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities:
   (1)   Upon receiving at least thirty (30) days' notice from the city, the
licensee shall, at no expense to the city, temporarily or permanently remove,
relocate, change or alter the position of any utility facilities in public ways
whenever the corporate authorities shall have determined that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration: a) is reasonably necessary for the public use
of such public ways; b) is reasonably necessary for the public use of other
property of the city; c) is reasonably necessary for the operations of the
city; or d) is reasonably necessary for the redevelopment of city property
located in the east/west alley connecting 19th and 20th Streets south of 1st
Avenue; provided, however, that in item d) of this subsection licensee shall
not be required to bear the costs to remove, relocate, change or alter the
position of its utility facilities in an amount greater than the cumulative
public financial support contributed to the redevelopment project. The city
will make reasonable effort to engineer any such project either so as not to
require any such removal, relocation, change or alteration or, if that is not
reasonably feasible, so as to minimize the licensee's expenses in making such
removals, changes or alterations.
   (2)   Whenever it shall be necessary for the city to move along or across
the public ways, any vehicle, equipment, structure or other object of such
height or size as will interfere with any of the licensee's overhead
facilities, the licensee shall temporarily remove such overhead facilities from
such place as must necessarily be crossed by such vehicle, equipment, structure
or other object provided that: a) the licensee shall receive at least twenty
four (24) hours' notice thereof from the municipal representative; b) the
licensee shall have received payment for such removal, except as provided in
subsection (b)(1) of this section; and c) such temporary removal shall be done
at such time of the day or night as will least interfere with the licensee's
use of such wires and poles for the benefit of the inhabitants of the city and
the successful operations of the licensee's electric system.
(c)   Restoration Of Public Ways Or Public Property:
   (1)   When the licensee, or any person acting on its behalf, does any work
in or affecting the public ways or public property, it shall, at no expense to
the city, restore such public ways or public property according to chapter 13,
article III, division 2, of this code.
   (2)   If the licensee fails to restore the public ways or public property as
required by subsection (c)(1) of this section, the city may, after
communications with the MidAmerican Energy representative and after affording
the licensee a reasonable opportunity to correct the situation, give seven (7)
days' written notice to the licensee, and thereafter restore at licensee's cost
such public ways or public property. No such prior written notice shall be
required in the event that the city determines that an emergency situation
exists.
(d)   Trimming Of Trees And Vegetation: From time to time, when the licensee
believes it to be warranted by existing conditions, the licensee shall, at its
own expense, have the right to trim the trees and vegetation growing upon or
overhanging any of the public ways or public property in the city where utility
facilities are erected. Licensee shall use its best efforts to provide the city
with advance notice of scheduled tree trimming within the city.
(e)   Use Of Utility Facilities: The licensee shall, when requested by the
city, permit its distribution poles to be used for the suspension and
maintenance of the city's wires, as may be reasonably required by the city. The
city shall be entitled to make such use without charge. Such use of the utility
facilities shall be under the supervision and direction of the licensee so as
not to materially interfere with the licensee's present or reasonably
contemplated usage of the utility facilities. Such use may not be for the
purpose of transmitting electricity by the city or any person. The city agrees
to save and keep harmless the licensee from any and all liability incurred by
the licensee as a result of the city's use of the utility facilities pursuant
to this subsection.
(f)   Abandoned Facilities: The licensee shall, as soon as practicable, remove
from the public ways and public property all aboveground wires and supports
whose use is abandoned and shall, as soon as practicable, remove or board up or
render reasonably inaccessible all other utility facilities whose use is
abandoned or discontinued. The licensee shall take reasonable steps to prevent
abandoned utility facilities from becoming nuisances. (Ord. 089-2008, § 1, 12-
22-2008)
Sec. 6. Service Considerations:
(a)   Duty To Provide Electricity: The licensee shall furnish electricity
within the city to the city, to the inhabitants thereof, and to any person
doing business in the city in accordance with the rates, tariffs, rules,
regulations, terms and conditions approved from time to time by the ICC. (Ord.
089-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 7. Administration:
(a)   Representatives:
   (1)   The licensee shall maintain such offices and facilities, as it deems
adequate for the purposes of providing the city with twenty four (24) hour
service pertaining to the operation of the utility facilities. The licensee
shall provide the city with the telephone number or numbers at which a
MidAmerican Energy representative can be reached twenty four (24) hours a day.
   (2)   The city shall provide the licensee with the telephone number or
numbers at which a municipal representative can be reached twenty four (24)
hours a day.
   (3)   The city and the licensee shall promptly notify the other in the event
that any of the information required under the foregoing sections is changed,
so as to keep such information current at all times while this ordinance
remains in effect.
(b)   Facilities Maps: Upon the request of the city, the licensee shall provide
the city with a current set of maps showing the location of all utility
facilities installed in or under public ways within the corporate limits of the
city, provided that the licensee shall not be required to prepare maps to
comply with this provision if no such maps exist.
(c)   Disclosure Of Documents Or Information: The city agrees that no documents
or information provided to the city by the licensee in accordance with this
ordinance shall be made available to the public if such documents or
information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the freedom of
information act, the federal energy regulatory commission critical energy
infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, and section
5-108 of the public utilities act, as such statutes and regulations may be
amended from time to time.
(d)   Notices:
   (1)   Notice To City: Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from
the licensee to the city under this ordinance shall be made in writing and
mailed to the city manager at the following address:
City Manager
City of Rock Island
1528 3rd Avenue
Rock Island, IL 61201
   (2)   Notice To The Licensee: Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices
from the city to the licensee under this ordinance shall be made in writing and
mailed to its president at the following address:
President
MidAmerican Energy Company
P.O. Box 657
Des Moines, IA 50303
   (3)   Changes In Person Or Place For Notification: In the event that either
the city or the licensee changes the person to whom written notices are to be
directed or the address to which such notices are to be sent, the party making
the change shall promptly notify the other party of such change in writing.
(e)   Coordination Of Construction Activities: The licensee and the city shall
exercise their best efforts to coordinate to the extent practicable the timing
of the construction activities of each so as to minimize any inconvenience to
the other or to the public that might otherwise occur. At the written request
of the city, the licensee shall meet once each calendar year with the city and
such other users of the public ways as may be invited by the city to discuss
scheduling of construction in the public ways.
(f)   Notice Of Boundary Changes: The city shall notify the licensee in writing
of any ordinance, statute or court or administrative action that causes a
change in the city's boundaries. Failure to give such notice excuses the
licensee both from noncompliance with this ordinance and from the noncollection
of municipal utility taxes within the area affected until such notice is given.
(g)   Notice Of Requests For Rate Changes: The licensee shall notify the city
of any application the licensee files with the ICC to effectuate any general
increase in its electric rates. Upon the written request of the city, the
licensee shall send the city such portions of the application filed with the
ICC as are requested by the city. (Ord. 089-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 8. Municipal Rights Reserved:
(a)   Police Powers: The city expressly reserves the right to adopt, from time
to time, in addition to the provisions contained herein, such ordinances, rules
and regulations as the corporate authorities may deem necessary in the police
power for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the city's
citizens and their properties.
(b)   Regulation Of Public Ways: The city expressly reserves the right to
enforce reasonable regulations concerning access to or use of the public ways,
as may from time to time be provided by ordinance, including requirements for
permit applications. (Ord. 089-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 9. Term And Termination:
(a)   Term: The franchise granted by this ordinance shall be for a term of
twenty five (25) years from its effective date and is hereby extended for an
additional five (5) years through December 12, 2024.
(b)   Acceptance: The licensee shall accept this ordinance by filing with the
clerk an unconditional written acceptance hereof, to be duly executed according
to law. The failure of the licensee to so accept this ordinance within thirty
(30) days of enactment shall be deemed a rejection hereof by the licensee, and
the rights and privileges herein granted shall absolutely cease and determine
unless said period of time shall be extended by an ordinance duly passed by the
corporate authorities for that purpose before the expiration of the thirty (30)
day period.
(c)   Effective Date: This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon the
licensee's filing of its acceptance as provided hereinabove or upon its passage
and publication as required by law, whichever is later.
(d)   Amendments: No revision, modification or amendment of this ordinance
shall be effective unless it has been passed by the corporate authorities and
accepted by the licensee in writing.
(e)   Termination: Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the rights
and obligations of the licensee under this ordinance shall terminate upon the
end of the term of this ordinance.
(f)   Rights Upon Termination:
   (1)   Upon any termination of its rights and obligations under this
ordinance, the licensee shall not refuse to provide electric service pursuant
to licensee's tariffs to any potential customers within the city unless a
petition for abandonment has been filed with and approved by the ICC.
   (2)   Notwithstanding the termination of the licensee's rights and
obligations hereunder, by forfeiture or otherwise, the licensee shall remain
subject to all other applicable regulations and authority of the city, without
limitation, as long as the licensee continues to provide electrical service
within the city or the licensee's utility facilities remain in the public ways
or on public property.
   (3)   Any claims for indemnification for liability incurred by the city, its
boards, committees, commissions, officers, agents and employees arising from
any incidents that occurred on or before the termination of this ordinance
shall survive the termination, provided that such claims for indemnification
are timely made. (Ord. 089-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 10. Indemnification:
(a)   Indemnification: The licensee shall indemnify and save harmless the city,
its boards, committees, commissions, officers, agents and employees from any
and all liability arising from licensee's negligent placement or negligent
maintenance of its utility facilities in the public ways or on public property
pursuant to this ordinance. (Ord. 089-2008, § 1, 12-22-2008)
Sec. 11. Miscellaneous Provisions:
(a)   Transfer And Assignment:
   (1)   Except in the event of the merger, consolidation or reorganization of
the licensee, the licensee shall not have the right to assign its rights and
privileges under this ordinance or to otherwise transfer it in any manner
whatsoever without the prior written approval of the city pursuant to an
ordinance enacted by the corporate authorities.
   (2)   In the event of a transfer or assignment of the licensee's rights and
privileges under this ordinance, all provisions of this ordinance which are
obligatory upon, or which inure to the benefit of, the licensee shall also be
obligatory upon and shall inure to the benefit of any and all successors and
assigns of the licensee.
(b)   Ordinance As Contract: This ordinance shall have the effect of and shall
be a contract between the city and the licensee and shall be a measure of the
rights and obligations of the city as well as of the licensee.
(c)   Paramount Regulatory Authority: The licensee and the city understand that
the general operations of the licensee are under the jurisdiction of the ICC
and the federal energy regulatory commission. The licensee has agreed to
perform the duties and obligations set forth in this ordinance, provided that
such performance does not violate any applicable regulatory provision or any
applicable statutes, ordinances, judgments or decrees of any administrative or
judicial tribunal.
(d)   Scope Of Ordinance: No privilege or exemption is granted or conferred to
licensee by this ordinance unless specifically provided herein. The permission
and authority granted by this ordinance are not intended to limit or modify any
agreement, franchise, license or permit previously granted by the city to any
other person for the use or occupancy of the public ways, and the licensee
shall therefore exercise the rights granted by this ordinance in such a manner
as shall neither unreasonably interfere with the rights nor endanger or impair
the property of other contractors, franchisees, licensees and permittees in the
public ways. The city agrees to require other contractors, franchisees,
licensees and permittees of the city to exercise their rights under such
agreements, franchises, licenses and permits in such a manner as shall neither
unreasonably interfere with the rights nor endanger or impair utility
facilities of the licensee located in the public ways.
(e)   Severability: If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this
ordinance shall be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect any of the other provisions of this
ordinance.
(f)   Repealer: All ordinances, resolutions or orders, or parts thereof, in
conflict with the provisions of this ordinance, or containing provisions
granting any right, privilege or license to the licensee or to any of its
predecessor companies are hereby repealed.
(g)   Force Majeure: The licensee shall not be deemed in violation of this
ordinance for the delay in performance or failure to perform in whole or in
part its obligations under this ordinance due to strike, war or act of war
(whether an actual declaration is made or not), insurrection, riot, act of
public enemy, fire, flood or other act of God or by other events to the extent
that such events are caused by circumstances beyond the licensee's control and
are not caused by gross negligence on the part of the licensee or any person
acting on its behalf. In the event that the delay in performance or failure to
perform affects only part of the licensee's capacity to perform its obligations
under this ordinance, the licensee shall perform such obligations to the extent
it is able to do so in as expeditious a manner as possible. Licensee shall
promptly notify the municipal representative in writing of an event covered by
this section and the date, nature and cause thereof. Furthermore, licensee, in
such notice, shall indicate the anticipated extent of such delay and the
obligations under this ordinance to be affected thereby. (Ord. 089-2008, § 1,
12-22-2008)
APPENDIX D
STORM WATER CONTROL
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
DIVISION 1. AUTHORITY, PURPOSE, ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
Sec. 1-1. Authority:
These regulations provide for the regulation of matters relative to the
management of storm water within the city of Rock Island and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction. Its provisions include, but are not limited to,
regulating drainage installations and improvements, requiring the preservation
and enhancement of certain natural environmental features, requiring the
installation of drainage improvements in developments, regulating uses,
maintenance, and activities in floodplains and flood hazard areas, requiring
permits, payment of fees and assurances of completion, and providing for
inspections and control of work. The requirements, standards and specifications
herein provided are in addition to any other applicable legal requirements.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-2. Purposes:
(a)   To maintain and improve the quality of water impacted by the storm
drainage system within the city of Rock Island.
(b)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens from the hazards of flooding.
(c)   To preserve property values by protecting new and existing buildings and
improvements to buildings from damage due to storm water flow.
(d)   To assure that new developments and redevelopments do not increase flood
or drainage hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion.
(e)   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in order to
moderate flood and storm water impacts, and to protect water quality.
(f)   To prevent the discharge of contaminated storm water runoff and illicit
discharges from industrial, commercial, residential, and construction sites
into the storm drainage system within the city of Rock Island.
(g)   To promote public awareness of the hazards involved in the improper
discharge of trash, yard waste, lawn chemicals, pet waste, wastewater, oil,
petroleum products, cleaning products, paint products, hazardous waste,
sediment and other pollutants into the storm drainage system.
(h)   To encourage recycling of used motor oil and safe disposal of other
hazardous consumer products.
(i)   To facilitate compliance with state and federal standards and permits by
owners of construction sites within the city of Rock Island.
(j)   To enable the city of Rock Island to comply with all federal and state
laws and regulations applicable to the national pollutant discharge elimination
system (NPDES) permitting requirements for storm water discharges. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-3. Abbreviations:
The following abbreviations when used in this appendix shall have the
designated meanings:
BMP   Best management practices
CFR   Code of federal regulations
FEMA   Federal emergency management agency
HHW   Household hazardous waste
IDPH   Illinois department of public health
IEPA   Illinois environmental protection agency
MS4   Municipal separate storm sewer system
NPDES   National pollutant discharge elimination system
NRCS   Natural resources conservation service
RISWCD   Rock Island soil and water conservation district
SWP3   Storm water pollution prevention plan
USDA   U.S. department of agriculture
USEPA   U.S. environmental protection agency
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-4. Definitions:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and phrases
as used in this appendix, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
Adverse Impacts: Any negative impact on plant, soil, air or water resources
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality, and quantity.
Applicant: Any person, firm, or governmental agency who executes the necessary
forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to carry out
construction of a new development or redevelopment from the city of Rock
Island.
Base Flood Elevation: The elevation at all locations delineating the level of
flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event, which has a one
percent (1%) probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. The
base flood elevation at any location is defined in the city of Rock Island
floodplain ordinance.
Best Management Practices (BMPs): Here refers to management practices and
methods to control pollutants in storm water. BMPs are of two (2) types:
"source controls" (nonstructural) and "treatment controls" (structural). Source
controls are practices that prevent pollution by reducing potential pollutants
at their source, before they come into contact with storm water. Treatment
controls remove pollutants from storm water. The selection, application and
maintenance of BMPs must be sufficient to prevent or reduce the likelihood of
pollutants entering the storm drainage system. Specific BMPs may be imposed by
the city of Rock Island and are discussed further in article III of this
appendix.
Building Official: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the international building code for the city
of Rock Island.
Building Permit: A permit issued by the city of Rock Island, for the
construction, erection or alteration of a structure or building and the related
ground and surface preparation prior to and after completion of construction,
erection or alteration of a structure or building.
Bypass Flows: Storm water runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property's drainage system but not under its control.
Certify Or Certification: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests were performed, and that such inspections and tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this appendix.
Channel: Any defined river, stream, creek, brook, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, on stream lake or impoundment, abandoned mine,
flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash, or natural or
manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or into
which surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
Channel Modification: The alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), filling, widening, deepening,
straightening, relocating, lining, and significant removal of bottom or woody
rooted vegetation. Channel modification does not include the manmade clearing
of debris or removal of trash.
Clearing: Any activity which removes the natural vegetative ground cover.
Commercial: Pertaining to any business, trade, industry, or other activity
engaged in for profit.
Compensatory Storage: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain.
Conduit: Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
Construction Site: Any location where clearing, grading, filling, etc.,
activity occurs.
Contaminated: Containing harmful quantities of pollutants.
Contractor: Any person or firm performing or managing construction work at a
construction site, including any construction manager, general contractor or
subcontractor. Also includes, but is not limited to, earthwork, paving,
building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical or landscaping contractors, and
material suppliers delivering materials to the site.
County: The county of Rock Island, Illinois.
Dam: As defined by the Illinois department of natural resources office of water
resources.
Detention Basin: A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of storm water runoff and the controlled release by gravity
of this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
Detention Time: The amount of time storm water is held within a detention
basin.
Development: Any manmade change to real estate or property, including:
   (1)   The division or subdivision of any duly recorded parcel of property.
   (2)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building valued at more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   (3)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
   (4)   Construction of roads, bridges, or similar projects.
   (5)   Redevelopment of a site.
   (6)   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving, drilling,
mining or other nonagricultural alterations of a ground surface.
   (7)   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   (8)   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
direction, or velocity of storm water flows from a property.
Discharge: Any addition or release of any pollutant, storm water or any other
substance whatsoever into storm drainage system.
Discharger: Any person who causes, allows, permits, or is otherwise responsible
for, a discharge, including, without limitation, any owner of a construction
site or industrial facility.
Domestic Sewage: Sewage originating primarily from kitchen, bathroom and
laundry sources, including waste from food preparation, dishwashing, garbage
grinding, toilets, baths, showers and sinks.
Drainage Plan: A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing storm water drainage system and
environmental features, including grading, as well as proposed alterations or
changes to the drainage system and environment of a property.
Dry Basin: A detention basin designed to drain after temporary storage of storm
water flows and to normally be dry over much of its bottom area.
Earthwork: The disturbance of soils on a site associated with clearing,
grading, or excavation activities.
Erosion: The general process whereby soil or earth is moved by rainfall,
flowing water, wind or wave action.
Excavation: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material, is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
from such actions.
Excess Storm Water Runoff: The volume and rate of flow of storm water
discharged from a new development or redevelopment which is or will be in
excess of that volume and rate which existed before development or
redevelopment.
Existing Grade: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
Facility: Any building, structure, installation, process, or activity from
which there is or may be a discharge of a pollutant.
Fertilizer: A substance or compound that contains an essential plant nutrient
element in a form available to plants and is used primarily for its essential
plant nutrient element content in promoting or stimulating growth of a plant or
improving the quality of a crop, or a mixture of two (2) or more fertilizers.
Fill: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material, is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
Final Grade: The vertical location of the ground surface after grading work is
completed in accordance with the plans.
Fire Protection Water: Any water, and any substances or materials contained
therein, used by any person to control or extinguish a fire, or to inspect or
test fire equipment.
Garbage: Putrescible animal and vegetable waste materials from the handling,
preparation, cooking, or consumption of food, including waste materials from
markets, storage facilities, and the handling and sale of produce and other
food products.
Grading: The excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include
the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
Ground Water: Any water residing below the surface of the ground or percolating
into or out of the ground.
Harmful Quantity: The amount of any substance that the public works director
determines will cause an adverse impact to storm drainage system or will
contribute towards the failure of the city of Rock Island to meet the water
quality based requirements of the NPDES permit for discharges from the MS4.
Hazardous Substance: Any substance listed in table 302.4 of 40 CFR part 302.
Hazardous Waste: Any substance identified or listed as a hazardous waste by the
EPA pursuant to 40 CFR part 261.
Household Hazardous Waste (HHW): Any material generated in a household
(including single and multiple residences) that would be classified as
hazardous pursuant to the IEPA.
Hydrograph: A graph showing for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
Hydrograph Method: This method estimates runoff volume and runoff hydrographs
for the point of interest by generating hydrographs for individual sub areas,
combining them, and routing them through stream lengths and reservoir
structures. Factors such as rainfall amount and distribution, runoff curve
number, time of concentration, and travel time are included.
Illegal Discharge: See definition of Illicit Discharge.
Illicit Connection: Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drainage
system.
Illicit Discharge: Any discharge to the storm drainage system that is
prohibited under this appendix.
Impervious Surface: That area of property that is covered by materials other
than soil and vegetation and that has no intended capacity to absorb storm
water, such as parking lots, roadways, driveways, sidewalks, patios, tennis
courts, roofs and other structures.
Industrial Waste (Or Commercial Waste): Any wastes produced as a byproduct of
any industrial, institutional or commercial process or operation, other than
domestic sewage.
Infiltration: The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
Jurisdiction: The city of Rock Island, Illinois.
Loessal Soil: A sediment, commonly nonstratified and unconsolidated, composed
predominately of silt sized particles with accessory clay and sand.
Lot: An individual platted parcel in an approved subdivision.
Major Drainage System: That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
May: Discretionary.
Mechanical Fluid: Any fluid used in the operation and maintenance of machinery,
vehicles and any other equipment, including lubricants, antifreeze, petroleum
products, oil and fuel.
Minor Drainage System: That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels, and swales and, where manmade, is to be designed to handle the
10-year runoff event.
Mitigation: When the prescribed controls are not sufficient and additional
measures are required to offset the development, including those measures
necessary to minimize the negative effects which storm water drainage and
development activities might have on the public health, safety and welfare.
Examples of mitigation include, but are not limited to, compensatory storage,
soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
Mobile Commercial Cosmetic Cleaning (Or Mobile Washing): Power washing, steam
cleaning, and any other method of mobile cosmetic cleaning, of vehicles and/or
exterior surfaces, engaged in for commercial purposes or related to a
commercial activity.
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4): The system of conveyances,
including roads, streets, curbs, gutters, ditches, inlets, drains, catch
basins, pipes, tunnels, culverts, channels, detention basins and ponds owned
and operated by the city of Rock Island and designed or used for collecting or
conveying storm water, and not used for collecting or conveying sanitary
sewage.
NPDES: The national pollutant discharge elimination system.
NPDES Permit: A permit issued by EPA that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area wide basis.
Natural: Conditions resulting from physical, chemical, and biological processes
without intervention by man.
Natural Drainage: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
Notice Of Violation: A written notice detailing any violations of this appendix
and any action expected of the violators.
Oil: Any kind of oil in any form, including, but not limited to: petroleum,
fuel oil, crude oil, synthetic oil, motor oil, cooking oil, grease, sludge, oil
refuse, and oil mixed with waste.
100-Year Event: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one percent (1%)
probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. A 24-hour storm
duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
1-Year Event: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one hundred percent
(100%) probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. A 24-hour
storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
Owner: The person who owns a facility, part of a facility, or land including
the contract seller and contract purchaser.
Parcel: A contiguous lot or tract of land under one ownership. A lot or tract
of land is land intended as a unit for the purpose of development or transfer
of ownership.
Peak Flow: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel or
conduit.
Permittee: Any person to whom a building permit or a grading and drainage
permit is issued.
Person: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns,
including all federal, state, and local governmental entities.
Pesticide: A substance or mixture of substances intended to prevent, destroy,
repel, or migrate any pest.
Pet Waste (Or Animal Waste): Excrement and other waste from domestic animals.
Petroleum Product: A product that is obtained from distilling and processing
crude oil and that is capable of being used as a fuel or lubricant in a motor
vehicle or aircraft, including motor oil, motor gasoline, gasohol, other
alcohol blended fuels, aviation gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, and #1
and #2 diesel.
Pollutant: Any substance attributable to water pollution, including, but not
limited to, rubbish, garbage, solid waste, litter, debris, yard waste,
pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, pet waste, animal waste, domestic sewage,
industrial waste, sanitary sewage, wastewater, septic tank waste, mechanical
fluid, oil, motor oil, used oil, grease, petroleum products, antifreeze,
surfactants, solvents, detergents, cleaning agents, paint, heavy metals,
toxins, household hazardous waste, small quantity generator waste, hazardous
substances, hazardous waste, soil and sediment.
Pollution: The alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical, or biological
quality of, or the contamination of, any water that renders the water harmful,
detrimental, or injurious to humans, animal life, plant life, property, or
public health, safety, or welfare, or impairs the usefulness or the public
enjoyment of the water for any lawful or reasonable purpose.
Positive Drainage: Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property
including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
Potable Water: Water that has been treated to drinking water standards and is
safe for human consumption.
Private Drainage System: All privately or publicly owned ground, surfaces,
structures or systems, excluding the MS4, that contribute to or convey storm
water, including, but not limited to, roofs, gutters, downspouts, lawns,
driveways, pavement, roads, streets, curbs, gutters, ditches, inlets, drains,
catch basins, pipes, tunnels, culverts, channels, detention basins, ponds,
draws, swales, streams and any ground surface.
Public Improvement Plans: Engineering drawings subject to approval by the city
engineer for the construction of public improvements.
Public Works Director: The public works director for the city of Rock Island or
his/her designee.
Qualified Person: A person who possesses the required certification, license,
or appropriate competence, skills, and ability as demonstrated by sufficient
education, training, and/or experience to perform a specific activity in a
timely and complete manner consistent with the regulatory requirements and
generally accepted industry standards for such activity.
Release: To dump, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, inject, leach, dispose
or otherwise introduce into the storm drainage system.
Rubbish: Nonputrescible solid waste, excluding ashes, that consist of: 1)
combustible waste materials, including paper, rags, cartons, wood, excelsior,
furniture, rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves, and similar materials; and
2) noncombustible waste materials, including glass, crockery, tin cans,
aluminum cans, metal furniture, and similar materials that do not burn at
ordinary incinerator temperatures (1,600 to 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit).
Sanitary Sewage: The domestic sewage and/or industrial waste that is discharged
into the city of Rock Island sanitary or combined sewer system and passes
through the sanitary or combined sewer system to a city of Rock Island sewage
treatment plant for treatment.
Sanitary Sewer: The system of pipes, conduits, and other conveyances which
carry industrial waste and domestic sewage from residential dwellings,
commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and
institutions, whether treated or untreated, to a city of Rock Island sewage
treatment plant (and to which storm water, surface water, and ground water are
not intentionally admitted).
Sediment: Soil (or mud) that has been disturbed or eroded and transported
naturally by water, wind, gravity, or equipment tracking (tires, vehicles).
Sedimentation: The process that deposits soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or storm water drainage
systems.
Septic Tank Waste: Any domestic sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and aerated tanks.
Shall: Mandatory.
Site: The land or water area where any facility or activity is physically
located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the
facility or activity.
Slope Disturbance Line: The line which delineates relatively level building
areas from areas where slopes exceed seven percent (7%) and where special
precautions must be taken.
Small Quantity Generator Waste: Any hazardous waste generated by a small
quantity generator as defined by IEPA.
Solid Waste: Any garbage, rubbish, refuse and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material, resulting
from industrial, municipal, commercial, construction, mining or agricultural
operations, and residential, community and institutional activities.
State: The state of Illinois.
Storm Drainage System: All surfaces, structures and systems that contribute to
or convey storm water, including private drainage systems, the MS4, surface
water, ground water, waters of the state and waters of the United States.
Storm Sewer: A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water.
Storm Water: Runoff resulting from precipitation.
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3): A document that describes the
best management practices to be implemented at a site, to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants.
Stream: Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or natural or manmade
drainageway which has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or into which
surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
Stripping: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, by spraying or clearing, and storage or removal of topsoil.
Subdivision Development: Includes activities associated with the platting of
any parcel of land into two (2) or more lots and includes all construction
activity taking place thereon.
Surface Water: Water bodies and any water temporarily residing on the surface
of the ground, including oceans, lakes, reservoirs, rivers, ponds, streams,
puddles, channelized flow and runoff.
10-Year Event: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a ten percent (10%)
probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. A 24-hour storm
duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
Time Of Concentration: The elapsed time for storm water to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
Tributary Watershed: All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to a
given point.
2-Year Event: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having two percent (2%)
probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. A 24-hour storm
duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
Uncontaminated: Not containing harmful quantities of pollutants.
Used Oil (Or Used Motor Oil): Any oil that as a result of use, storage, or
handling, has become unsuitable for its original purpose because of impurities
or the loss of original properties.
Utility Agency: Private utility companies, the city of Rock Island or
contractors working for private utility companies or the city of Rock Island,
engaged in the construction or maintenance of utility distribution lines and
services, including water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, electric, gas,
telephone, television and communication services.
Vacant: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
Wastewater: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm water,
discharged from a facility.
Water Of The State (Or Water): Any ground water, percolating or otherwise,
lakes, bays, ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, rivers, streams, creeks,
estuaries, marshes, inlets, canals, inside the territorial limits of the state,
and all other bodies of surface water, natural or artificial, navigable or
nonnavigable, and including the beds and banks of all watercourses and bodies
of surface water, that are wholly or partially inside or bordering the state or
inside the jurisdiction of the state.
Water Quality Standard: The designation of a body or segment of surface water
in the state for desirable uses and the narrative and numerical criteria deemed
by state or federal regulatory standards to be necessary to protect those uses.
Waters Of The United States: All waters which are currently used, were used in
the past, or may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce,
including all waters which are subject to the ebb and the flow of the tide; all
interstate waters, including interstate wetlands; all other waters the use,
degradation, or destruction of which would affect or could affect interstate or
foreign commerce; all impoundments of waters otherwise defined as waters of the
United States under this definition; all tributaries of waters identified in
this definition; all wetlands adjacent to waters identified in this definition;
and any waters within the federal definition of "Waters of the United States"
at 40 CFR section 122.2; but not including any waste treatment systems,
treatment ponds, or lagoons designed to meet the requirements of the federal
clean water act.
Watershed: All land area drained by, or contributing water to, the same
channel, lake, marsh, storm water facility, ground water or depressional area.
Wet Basin: A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of storm water runoff.
Wetlands: Defined by regulation as "those areas that are inundated or saturated
by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support,
and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions". Wetlands generally include
swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. For general, but not inclusive,
locations of designated wetlands refer to mapping prepared jointly by the U.S.
department of interior, fish and wildlife service and the Illinois department
of natural resources, office of resource conservation; national wetlands
inventory mapping, 1987. More specific wetland information is published in the
Rock River wetlands special area management plan, by the bistate regional
commission in cooperation with the natural resources conservation service
(NRCS), the U.S. fish and wildlife service and the U.S. army corps of
engineers. The applicant may be required to provide a field investigation by a
qualified wetland delineator.
Yard Waste: Leaves, grass clippings, tree limbs, brush, soil, rocks or debris
that result from landscaping, gardening, yard maintenance or land clearing
operations. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 2. PROHIBITED ACTIONS
Sec. 1-5. Surface Water:
Surface water shall be allowed to travel its natural or preregulated course
unless changes are allowed by means of a grading and drainage permit or grading
and drainage plans approved by the public works director. It shall be unlawful
for any person to force surface water off that person's property and onto a
neighboring property or to prevent surface water which would have entered that
person's property from doing so without approval granted by a grading and
drainage permit. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-6. Easements:
No buildings or permanent structures, including impervious surfaces, may be
placed wholly or in part within an easement that has been granted for access to
drainage facilities of any type, including agricultural drainage conduit,
without the written approval of the public works director; provided, however,
streets, sidewalks and driveways may be allowed to cross easements by the
shortest possible route, provided that other requirements are met. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-7. Obstruction Of Watercourse:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain any obstruction within
a watercourse or drainage facility of any type, except as may be specifically
authorized by this appendix. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-8. Discharge:
No person shall release or cause to be released into the storm drainage system
any discharge that is not composed entirely of uncontaminated storm water,
except as allowed in listed exemptions of this appendix. Common storm water
contaminants include trash, yard waste, stones, earth, concrete, wood, lawn
chemicals, pet waste, wastewater, oil, petroleum products, cleaning products,
paint products, hazardous waste and sediment. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-9. Exempted Discharges:
The following discharges are exempt from the regulations in this appendix:
   (1)   Water line and fire hydrant flushing.
   (2)   Landscape irrigation.
   (3)   Rising ground waters.
   (4)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration.
   (5)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water.
   (6)   Discharges from potable water sources.
   (7)   Foundation drains.
   (8)   Air conditioning condensate.
   (9)   Irrigation water (except for wastewater irrigation).
   (10)   Springs.
   (11)   Water from crawl space pumps.
   (12)   Footing drains.
   (13)   Storm sewer cleaning.
   (14)   Water from individual car washing on properties residential zoned.
   (15)   Routine external building wash-down which does not use detergents.
   (16)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
   (17)   Dechlorinated pH neutral swimming pool discharges.
   (18)   Residual street wash water.
   (19)   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities.
   (20)   Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges.
   (21)   Pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed).
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-10. Pollutant Discharge:
Notwithstanding the listed exemptions of this division, any discharge shall be
prohibited by this appendix if the discharge in question has been determined by
the public works director to be a source of pollutants to the storm drainage
system.
The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drainage system are prohibited. This prohibition
expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past,
regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices
applicable or prevailing at the time of connection. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-
2004)
Sec. 1-11. Line Connect:
No person shall connect a line conveying sanitary sewage, domestic sewage or
industrial waste, to the storm drainage system, or allow such a connection to
continue. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-12. Interference:
No person shall interfere with best management practices (BMPs) implemented
pursuant to this appendix. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN DISCHARGERS
Sec. 1-13. Private Drainage System Maintenance:
The owner of any private drainage system shall maintain the system to prevent
or reduce the discharge of pollutants. This maintenance shall include, but is
not limited to, sediment removal, bank erosion repairs, maintenance of
vegetative cover, and removal of debris from pipes and structures. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-14. Minimization Of Irrigation Runoff:
Irrigation systems shall be managed to reduce the discharge of water from a
site. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-15. Cleaning Of Paved Surfaces Required:
The owner of any paved parking lot, street or drive shall clean the pavement as
required to prevent the buildup and discharge of pollutants. The visible
buildup of mechanical fluid, waste materials, sediment or debris is a violation
of this appendix. Paved surfaces shall be cleaned by dry sweeping, wet vacuum
sweeping, collection and treatment of wash water or other methods in compliance
with this appendix. This section does not apply to pollutants discharged from
construction activities, which are otherwise specified. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-
22-2004)
Sec. 1-16. Mobile Commercial Cosmetic Cleaning Operations:
Mobile commercial cosmetic cleaning operations shall not discharge to the storm
drainage system in violation of this appendix. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-17. Maintenance Of Equipment:
Any leak or spill related to equipment maintenance in an outdoor, uncovered
area shall be contained to prevent the potential release of pollutants.
Vehicles, machinery and equipment must be maintained to reduce leaking fluids.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-18. Materials Storage:
In addition to other requirements of this appendix, materials shall be stored
to prevent the potential release of pollutants. The uncovered, outdoor storage
of unsealed containers of hazardous substances is prohibited. (Ord. 33-2004, §
1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-19. Pet Waste:
Pet waste shall be disposed of as solid waste or sanitary sewage in a timely
manner, to prevent discharge to the storm drainage system. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1,
3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-20. Pesticides, Herbicides And Fertilizers:
Pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers shall be applied in accordance with
manufacturer recommendations and applicable laws. Excessive application shall
be avoided. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-21. Prohibition On Use Of Pesticides And Fungicides Banned From
Manufacture:
Use of any pesticide, herbicide or fungicide, the manufacture of which has been
either voluntarily discontinued or prohibited by the U.S. environmental
protection agency, or any federal, state or local jurisdiction. (Ord. 33-2004,
§ 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-22. Open Drainage Channel Maintenance:
Every person owning or occupying property through which an open drainage
channel passes shall keep and maintain that part of the drainage channel within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or retard the flow of water through the
drainage channel. In addition, the owner or occupant shall maintain existing
privately owned structures adjacent to a drainage channel, so that such
structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity
of the drainage channel. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-23. Release Reporting And Cleanup:
Any person responsible for a known or suspected release of materials which are
resulting in or may result in illegal discharges to the storm drainage system
shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, abatement
and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of a hazardous
material, said person shall comply with all state, federal, and local laws
requiring reporting, cleanup, containment, and any other appropriate remedial
action in response to the release. In the event of such a release of
nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the public works director no
later than the close of the next business day. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-24. Authorization To Adopt And Impose Best Management Practices:
The city of Rock Island may adopt and impose requirements identifying best
management practices (BMPs) for any activity, operation, or facility, which may
cause a discharge of pollutants to the storm drainage system. Where specific
BMPs are required, every person undertaking such activity or operation, or
owning or operating such facility shall implement and maintain these BMPs at
their own expense. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 4. INSPECTIONS AND PLAN MODIFICATIONS
Sec. 1-25. Inspections:
The city of Rock Island shall make inspections as required and shall notify the
grading and drainage permit holder in the event that the work fails to comply
with the requirements of this appendix. The notification of any deficiencies in
the work or violations of this appendix shall be posted at the site and mailed
to the owner of the site by ordinary mail.
The owner of the site shall notify the public works director:
   (1)   Two (2) working days prior to the start of any land disturbing
activities,
   (2)   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control
measures (including perimeter controls and diversions), and
   (3)   After final stabilization and landscaping and prior to removal of
temporary sediment controls. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-26. Special Precautions:
If at any stage of the grading of any development site the city of Rock Island
determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that further work
authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any property, public way,
stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the city of Rock Island shall
require, as a condition of allowing the work to be done, that such reasonable
special precautions to be taken as is considered advisable to avoid the
likelihood of such peril. "Special precautions" may include, but shall not be
limited to, a more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage
facilities, berms, terracing, compaction, cribbing, installation of plant
materials for erosion control, and recommendations of a certified professional
in erosion and sediment control or a professional engineer, which may be made
requirements for further work.
Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading on any
development site is not complete, work shall be stopped and the grading and
drainage permit holder required to install temporary structures or take such
other measures as may be required to protect adjoining property or the public
safety. On large developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the
public works director shall specify the time of starting grading and time of
completion or may require that the operations be conducted in specific stages
so as to ensure completion of protective measures or devices prior to the
advent of seasonal rains. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-27. Amendment Of Plans:
Major amendments to storm water drainage and detention or grading and drainage
plans shall be submitted to the public works director and shall be processed
and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the original plans. Field
modification of a minor nature may be authorized and documented by the public
works director. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 5. RESPONSIBILITY
Sec. 1-28. Applicant:
The applicant for a grading and drainage permit shall not be relieved of
responsibility for damage to persons or property otherwise imposed by law.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-29. Jurisdiction:
The city of Rock Island or its officers or agents, will not be made liable for
such damage, by: 1) the issuance of a grading and drainage permit under this
appendix, 2) compliance with the provisions of that grading and drainage permit
or conditions attached to it by the public works director, 3) failure of the
city of Rock Island to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly conditions,
4) failure of the city of Rock Island officials to recommend denial or to deny
a grading and drainage permit, or 5) exemptions from grading and drainage
permit requirements of this appendix. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 6. MAINTENANCE OF DRAINAGE FACILITIES
Sec. 1-30. Responsibility For Maintenance:
The city of Rock Island will maintain those drainage facilities that are on
public land and have been dedicated and accepted for maintenance or stipulated
by agreement for maintenance by the city of Rock Island. All other drainage
facilities, when located on other than public property, shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property on which they exist or the owner of
the drainage facility, regardless of whether or not dedicated easements exist
over said facilities.
The responsible party shall at all times properly operate and maintain all
facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances)
which are installed to achieve compliance with conditions of this permit.
Proper operation and maintenance includes effective performance, adequate
funding, adequate operator staffing and training, and appropriate quality
assurance procedures. Abandonment and alteration, either structural or
operational, of all facilities and systems shall occur only following
application and issuance of a permit. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 7. ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 1-31. Right Of Entry And Sampling:
(a)   Whenever the appropriate official has cause to believe that there exists,
or potentially exists, in or upon any premises any condition which constitutes
a violation of this appendix, the appropriate official shall have the right to
enter the premises at any reasonable time to determine if the discharger is
complying with all requirements of this article. In the event that the owner or
occupant refuses entry after a request to enter has been made, the city
attorney of the city of Rock Island is hereby empowered to seek assistance from
a court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
(b)   The appropriate official shall have the right to set up on the property
of any discharger to the storm drainage system such devices that are necessary
to conduct sampling of discharges. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-32. Notice Of Violation:
Whenever an authorized enforcement person determines that a person has violated
or failed to meet a requirement of this appendix, the enforcement person will
order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person.
Posting the written notice on the property will constitute written notice.
Whenever possible, a copy of the notice of violation will be mailed by ordinary
mail or e-mail when an address has been provided through appropriate permitting
procedures.
The notice of violation shall include:
   (1)   The name of the responsible person or property owner.
   (2)   The date and location of the violation.
   (3)   A description of the violation.
   (4)   Actions that must be taken by the responsible person to remedy the
violation.
   (5)   The deadline within which the required actions must be completed.
   (6)   Enforcement actions that may be taken by the city attorney of the city
of Rock Island.
   (7)   Notice date.
   (8)   Any person receiving a notice of violation may file a written appeal
to the public works director within fifteen (15) days of the notice date. The
public works director will affirm, modify or rescind the notice in writing,
within fifteen (15) days of the date of the appeal. If the recipient of a
notice of violation is dissatisfied with the outcome of the appeal to the
public works director, the appeal process outlined in division 9 of this
article will be followed. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-33. Action Without Prior Notice:
Any person who violates or fails to meet a requirement of this appendix will be
subject, without prior notice, to one or more of the enforcement actions
identified in this appendix when attempts to contact the person have failed and
the enforcement actions are necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent danger to the environment or to the
health or welfare of persons or to the storm drainage system. (Ord. 33-2004, §
1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-34. Enforcement Actions:
Any person who fails to comply with or appeal a notice of violation, or fails
to comply with an appeal decision of the public works director, will be subject
to one or more of the following enforcement actions:
   (1)   Stop Work Order: The public works director may issue a stop work order
to the owner and contractors on a construction site, by posting the order at
the construction site and distributing the order to all city of Rock Island
departments whose decisions may affect any activity at the site. Unless express
written exception is made, the stop work order shall prohibit any further
construction activity at the site and shall bar any further inspection or
approval necessary to commence or continue construction or to assume occupancy
at the site. A notice of violation shall accompany the stop work order, and
shall define the compliance requirements.
   (2)   Abatement Of An Illicit Connection: The public works director may
terminate an illicit connection. Any expense related to such abatement shall be
fully reimbursed by the property owner.
   (3)   Abatement Of A Violation On Private Property: When a property owner is
not available, not able or not willing to correct a violation, the public works
director may enter private property to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the public works
director to enter upon the premises for these purposes. Any expense related to
such abatement shall be fully reimbursed by the property owner.
   (4)   Recovery Of Costs: Within thirty (30) days after abatement by the
public works director, the public works director shall notify the property
owner of the costs of abatement, including administrative costs, and the
deadline for payment. The property owner may appeal the recovery costs as
outlined in division 9 of this article.
   (5)   Termination Of Utility Services: After lawful notice to the customer
and property owner concerning the proposed disconnection, the public works
director shall have the authority to order the disconnection of city of Rock
Island water, sanitary sewer and/or sanitation services, upon a finding by the
public works director that the disconnection of utility services will remove a
violation of this appendix that poses a public health hazard or environmental
hazard.
   (6)   Criminal Prosecution: Any person who violates or continues to violate
a prohibition or requirement of this appendix shall be liable to criminal
prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to criminal
penalties. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-35. Criminal Penalties:
Any person violating this appendix shall, upon an adjudication of guilt or a
plea of no contest, be fined a minimum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
to a maximum of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each separate
day on which a violation is committed or continues shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-36. Other Legal Action:
Notwithstanding any other remedies or procedures available to the city of Rock
Island, if any person violates this appendix, the city attorney of the city of
Rock Island may commence an action for appropriate legal and equitable relief
including damages and court costs. The city attorney of the city of Rock Island
may seek a preliminary or permanent injunction or both which restrains or
compels the activities on the part of the discharger. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-
2004)
Sec. 1-37. Abrogation And Greater Restrictions:
This appendix is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this appendix and other
ordinance, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 33-2004,
§ 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-38. Separability:
The provisions and sections of this appendix shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this appendix shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 8. IMPLEMENTATION
This appendix is effective upon passage with the following exceptions:
Sec. 1-39. Subdivision Improvements:
The requirements for obtaining a grading and drainage permit are waived for a
period of five (5) years after the passage date hereof if the preliminary plat
of a subdivision was approved by the city council prior to the passage date
hereof. All other requirements of this appendix shall remain in effect. (Ord.
33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004; Ord. 092-2005, § 1, 11-7-2005)
Sec. 1-40. Nonsubdivision Improvements Requiring A Building Permit:
The requirements for obtaining a grading and drainage permit for nonsubdivision
related improvements requiring a building permit are waived for the duration of
the building permit if the building permit was issued prior to the passage date
hereof. All other requirements of this appendix shall remain in effect. (Ord.
33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-41. Improvements That Previously Did Not Require A Permit:
The requirements for obtaining a grading and drainage permit for construction
that did not require a permit prior to the passage date hereof are waived for a
period of one year if the construction commenced prior to the passage date
hereof. All other requirements of this appendix shall remain in effect. (Ord.
33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 9. VARIANCES AND APPEALS
Sec. 1-42. General Procedures:
The storm water board of appeals, after a public hearing, may: 1) determine and
vary the requirements and regulations of this appendix in harmony with their
general purpose and intent, where the storm water board of appeals make written
findings of fact in accordance with the standards herein after prescribed and
further, find that there are practical difficulties or particular hardships in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of requirements and regulations of
this appendix, and 2) uphold, modify or overrule the decision of the public
works director.
A written application for a variance from the requirements of this appendix or
an appeal of a decision by the public works director shall be filed within
thirty (30) days of the time that the applicant became aware of the need for
the variance or the decision. The application shall fully state the grounds of
the request and the facts relied upon by the applicant. Each application shall
be filed with the public works director. And said application shall be
accompanied by a fee in the amount of eighty dollars ($80.00) toward the costs
of processing the application. Should the application be withdrawn prior to
publication of legal notice thereon, such fee will be returned upon the written
request of the applicant.
The storm water board of appeals shall give at least fifteen (15) days' notice
of the time and place of such hearing by insertion in a daily newspaper
published in the city of Rock Island and shall also give notice delivered
personally or by mail at least five (5) days before the time fixed for such
hearing to the applicant or appellant and to the public works director and to
the respective owners of record of property adjoining or adjacent to the
premises in question. Any party may appear at such hearing in person or by
agent, or by attorney.
The refiling of denied requests for variance or appeals denied by the storm
water board of appeals, that are not substantially or materially different from
the previously filed request or appeal, shall not be accepted from the same or
different person for the following periods of time:
   (1)   For a six (6) month period from the date of the first decision by the
storm water board of appeals.
   (2)   For a one year period from the date of subsequent decisions by the
storm water board of appeals.
The public works director shall determine whether a request is substantially or
materially different and submittable, although the storm water board of appeals
may, by majority vote, reverse a decision of the public works director to not
accept a request following a denied request or appeal.
The public works director will review and transmit recommendations to the storm
water board of appeals, which shall review such recommendations prior to
granting or denying the variance. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-43. Variances:
The storm water board of appeals shall not vary the requirements and
regulations of this appendix unless evidence is presented that proves that the
following three (3) situations exist:
   (1)   The land in question is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations or record, that it
is impossible or impractical for the applicant to comply with all of the
requirements of this appendix; and
   (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant; and
   (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare, environment or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the
subject's property.
The storm water board of appeals shall hold a public hearing on each
application for variance within sixty (60) days after the application for a
variance is received by the public works director. Within sixty (60) days after
the public hearing, the storm water board of appeals shall approve the variance
with the conditions it deems necessary, disapprove the variance or take other
such action as appropriate. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-44. Appeals:
The storm water board of appeals shall consider each application for
modification to the decision of the public works director at a public meeting
within sixty (60) days after the appeal application is received by the public
works director. Within sixty (60) days after the public meeting, the
appropriate entity shall uphold, modify or overrule the decision of the public
works director. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 1-45. Storm Water Board Of Appeals:
(a)   Creation, Membership And Procedure: A storm water board of appeals
consisting of five (5) members shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by
city council. Members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years except
that the city council may remove any member of the board for cause prior to the
expiration of his/her term.
   (1)   The board shall elect its own chair and vice chair and have the power
to adopt rules and regulations for its own government, not inconsistent with
law or with the provisions of this or any other ordinance of the city of Rock
Island. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chair and at such other times
as the board may determine. The chair, or in his absence, the vice chair, may
administer oaths and compel attendance of the witnesses.
   (2)   Meetings of the board shall be open to the public, minutes shall be
kept of proceedings, showing the action of the board and the vote of each
member upon each question, or if absent, or failing to vote, indicating that
fact and records shall be made of the board's examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be filed immediately in the office of the city
clerk.
   (3)   Three (3) members of the board shall constitute a quorum. The board
shall act by resolution, and the concurring vote of three (3) members shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
public works director, or to decide in favor of an applicant any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this appendix, or to effect any variation in
the requirements of this appendix.
   (4)   The board may call on the city's departments for assistance in the
performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of such departments to
render such assistance to the board as may reasonably be required.
(b)   Judicial Review: All final administrative decisions of the storm water
board of appeals shall be subject to judicial review, pursuant to the
provisions of the "administrative review act", approved May 8, 1945, and all
amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
ARTICLE II. CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL
DIVISION 1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL CONSTRUCTION SITES
Sec. 2-1. Responsible Entity:
The owner of a site of construction activity and the contractors working on the
construction site shall be responsible for compliance with the requirements of
this appendix. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004; Ord. 094-2006, § 1, 12-18-2006)
Sec. 2-2. Waste Disposal:
Solid waste, industrial waste, yard waste and any other pollutants or waste on
any construction site shall be controlled through the use of BMPs. Waste or
recycling containers shall be provided and maintained by the owner or
contractor on construction sites where there is the potential for release of
waste. Uncontained waste that may blow, wash or otherwise be released from the
site is prohibited. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-3. Ready Mixed Concrete:
Ready mixed concrete, or any materials resulting from the cleaning of vehicles
or equipment containing or used in transporting or applying ready mixed
concrete, shall be contained on construction sites for proper disposal. Release
of these materials is prohibited. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-4. Erosion And Sediment Control:
BMPs shall be implemented to prevent the release of sediment from construction
sites. Disturbed areas shall be minimized, disturbed soil shall be managed and
construction site entrances shall be managed to prevent sediment tracking.
Excessive sediment tracked onto public streets shall be removed immediately.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-5. Continued Compliance:
Upon completion of permitted construction activity on any site, the property
owner and subsequent property owners will be responsible for continued
compliance with the requirements of this appendix, in the course of
maintenance, reconstruction or any other construction activity on the site.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 2. GRADING AND DRAINAGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 2-6. Permit Exceptions:
Except as exempted below, no person shall commence construction prior to
obtaining the appropriate grading and drainage permit as defined below. The
public works director will issue grading and drainage permits.
In order to preclude inappropriate phasing of developments to circumvent the
intent of this appendix, when a proposed development activity will occur on a
lot or parcel of land that has contiguous lots or parcels of lands owned by the
same property owner, then the criteria as defined in this division will be
applied to the total land area compiled from aggregate ownership parcels.
A grading and drainage permit shall not be required for the following:
   (1)   Any construction activity below the minimum thresholds for a class 1
grading and drainage permit.
   (2)   The agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the
natural resources conservation service, and including the construction of
agricultural structures.
   (3)   The maintenance of any existing storm water control facility including
dredging, levee restoration, tree removal or other function that maintains the
original design capacities of the facility.
   (4)   The construction of, improvements to, or the maintenance of any
street, road, highway or interstate highway or other public infrastructure
performed by the city of Rock Island. However the requirements of this appendix
will be honored by the city of Rock Island for such improvements. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-7. Class 1 Grading And Drainage Permit:
Any construction that will include the addition of an impervious surface area
(i.e., streets, roof, patio or parking area or any combination thereof) greater
than five hundred (500) square feet and less than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet requires a class 1 grading and drainage permit.
The issuance of a grading and drainage permit shall constitute an authorization
to do only that work which is described on the approved sketch. A class 1
grading and drainage permit shall be valid for one year after the date of
issuance. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-8. Class 2 Grading And Drainage Permit:
The drainage system for a parcel containing the proposed construction site
shall be designed to restrict the peak rate of discharge from the total parcel
(1-hour storm within 1 year) to preproject levels. The public works director
will estimate the peak discharge rates. If the estimated postdevelopment peak
discharge rate must be reduced, the public works director will recommend
appropriate storm water control options. If a mutually acceptable option cannot
be developed, the appeal process outlined in article I, division 9 of this
appendix will be followed.
The issuance of a grading and drainage permit shall constitute an authorization
to do only that work which is described on the approved sketch. A class 2
grading and drainage permit shall be valid for one year after the date of
issuance.
Any construction that meets one of the following thresholds shall require a
class 2 grading and drainage permit:
   (1)   Any construction that will include the addition of an impervious
surface area (i.e., streets, roof, patio or parking area or any combination
thereof) greater than or equal to ten thousand (10,000) square feet and less
than one acre (43,560 square feet).
   (2)   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill, or any combination thereof) that will affect an area greater
than or equal to ten thousand (10,000) square feet and less than one acre
(43,560 square feet).
   (3)   Any land disturbing activity that will exceed one hundred (100) cubic
yards, but does not otherwise require a class 3 grading and drainage permit.
   (4)   Any land disturbing activity on the sloping side of the slope
disturbance line, but does not otherwise require a class 3 grading and drainage
permit.
   (5)   Construction of one or more single-family dwellings that is/are
constructed as part of a subdivision development with an approved storm water
pollution prevention plan. Those that are part of development for which there
is a class 3 grading and drainage permit will not be required to calculate
preproject and postproject discharge rates. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-9. Class 1 And Class 2 Grading And Drainage Permit And Application
Forms:
(a)   Name(s), address(es) and telephone numbers of the owner and developer of
the site, the contractor(s) and of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant identifying the principal contractor.
(b)   Certification that all construction covered by the grading and drainage
permit will be undertaken in compliance with division 1, "General Requirements
For All Construction Sites", of this article.
(c)   A sketch acceptable to the public works director showing the amount of
impervious area being created.
(d)   An application fee as set forth in article V of this appendix. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-10. Class 3 Grading And Drainage Permit:
(a)   Any construction that meets one of the following thresholds shall require
a class 3 grading and drainage permit:
   (1)   Any construction that will include the addition of an impervious
surface area (i.e., streets, roof, patio or parking area or any combination
thereof) greater than one acre (43,560 square feet).
   (2)   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill, or any combination thereof) that will affect an area greater
than one acre (43,560 square feet).
            (b)   A completed application form shall include:
   (1)   Name(s), address(es) and telephone numbers of the owner and developer
of the site, the contractor(s) and of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant identifying the principal contractor.
   (2)   Certification that any land clearing, construction, or development
involving the movement of earth shall be in accordance with the plans approved
upon issuance of the permit.
   (3)   An application fee as set forth in article V of this appendix.
   (4)   A faithful performance bond or bonds, letter of credit, or other
improvement security satisfactory to the city attorney of the city of Rock
Island in an amount deemed sufficient by the public works director to cover all
costs of improvements, landscaping, maintenance of improvements and
landscaping, and soil erosion and sediment control measures for such period as
specified by the public works department and engineering and inspection costs
to cover the cost of failure or repair of improvements installed on the site on
a form acceptable to the public works director. (See sample in article VI of
this appendix.) Upon satisfactory completion of the improvements, the
documented security would be void.
   (5)   The following information shall be submitted for both existing and
proposed property conditions for all applicable developments: a topographic
survey of the property at two foot (2') contours (or 1 foot contours for
relatively flat areas where additional detail will be required to see drainage
designs) unless otherwise specified or approved by the public works director
keyed to a consistent datum specified by the public works director; and an
existing drainage and proposed drainage plan for the property and one hundred
feet (100') surrounding the property at a scale of not more than one hundred
feet (100') to one inch (1"), and including the following (unless otherwise
specified by the public works director):
      a.   Property boundary, dimensions, and approximate acreage.
      b.   Building setback lines.
      c.   All existing and proposed structures and sizes.
      d.   Square feet of existing and proposed impervious surface.
      e.   All existing, or proposed easements.
      f.   All existing, abandoned, or proposed water or monitoring wellhead
locations.
      g.   All existing, abandoned, or proposed water mains.
      h.   All sanitary or combined sewer lines and septic systems.
      i.   The banks and centerline of streams and channels.
      j.   Shoreline of lakes, ponds, and detention basins with normal water
level elevation.
      k.   Farm drains and tiles.
      l.   Location, size and slope of storm water conduits and drainage
swales.
      m.   Detention facilities.
      n.   Roads, streets and associated storm water inlets including finished
grades.
      o.   Base flood elevation, flood fringe, and regulatory floodway.
      p.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the site to its general
surroundings at a scale of not less than two thousand feet (2,000') to one inch
(1").
      q.   Title, scale, north arrow, legend, seal of licensed professional
engineer, date, and name of person preparing plans.
      r.   Subwatershed boundaries within the property.
      s.   Abandoned mines.
      t.   Soil classifications.
   (6)   The following certifications and design statements shall be provided:
      a.   Basis of design for the final drainage system components.
      b.   A statement giving any applicable engineering assumptions and
calculations.
      c.   A statement by the design engineer of the drainage system's
provision for handling events greater than the 100-year, 24-hour runoff.
      d.   Design calculations and other submittals as required by this
appendix.
      e.   A statement of certification of all drainage plans, calculations,
and supporting data by a licensed professional engineer.
   (7)   A depiction of environmental features of the property and immediate
vicinity including the following:
      a.   The limits of designated regulatory and nonregulatory wetland areas.
      b.   The location of trees greater than eight inches (8") in diameter in
areas to be disturbed.
      c.   Any designated natural areas or prime farmland.
      d.   Any proposed environmental mitigation features.
   (8)   Any and all local, state or federal maps marked to reflect any
proposed change in the floodway delineation, base flood, or 100-year frequency
flood elevation will change due to the proposed project.
   (9)   Conditional approval by FEMA or other regulatory agencies of the
proposed changes in the floodway map that have been made if the floodway
delineation, base flood, or 100-year frequency flood elevation will change due
to the proposed project.
   (10)   Engineering calculations and data supporting all proposed plans.
Hydrologic design shall be completed in accordance with article III, division 2
hydrologic design criteria of this appendix. Detention system design shall be
completed in accordance with article III, division 3, "Detention System Design
Criteria", of this appendix.
   (11)   If the project involves channel modification, the following
information shall be submitted:
      a.   A discussion of the purpose and need for the proposed work.
      b.   Discussion of the practicability of using alternative locations or
methods to accomplish the purpose of the proposed work.
      c.   Analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
      d.   Additional information as required by this appendix.
   (12)   Storm water pollution prevention plan (SWP3) prepared in accordance
with article IV of this appendix. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-11. Submittal, Review, And Approval:
If a building permit is also required for the development, the grading and
drainage permit application shall be submitted to the building official at the
time application is made for a building permit. Departments of the city of Rock
Island shall coordinate their activities to prevent additional, unnecessary
delays.
   (1)   Each application for an approved grading and drainage permit shall be
reviewed and acted upon according to the following procedures. The public works
director shall:
      a.   Provide a written evaluation to the applicant regarding the adequacy
and effectiveness of the proposal to address the provisions of this appendix.
The public works director may retain the services of an independent
professional to perform this evaluation. The city of Rock Island may assess a
fee for this evaluation service as set forth in article V of this appendix.
      b.   Attend a preconstruction meeting with the applicant or designated
agent to review implementation of grading and drainage permit.
      c.   Conduct on site inspections during the active construction phases of
and development projects to determine whether site development is in compliance
with the approved grading and drainage plans, and determine adjustments needed
to the approved plans. After construction has been completed, determine whether
permanent site stabilization has been achieved and identify operation and
maintenance needs.
      d.   Prepare correspondence as needed regarding the effectiveness (or
corrective measures needed) or adequacy of soil erosion and sediment control
measures.
      e.   Consult with land developers, consultants, and contractors
concerning the design criteria, installation and maintenance procedures and
other information regarding best management practices recommended under the
provisions of this appendix.
      f.   After review of the application and required submissions if it is
found to be in conformance with the provisions of this appendix.
         1.   Approve the grading and drainage permit.
         2.   Approve the grading and drainage permit subject to such
reasonable conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the
objectives of this appendix, and issue the approval subject to these
conditions.
         3.   Disapprove the grading and drainage permit, indicating the
deficiencies and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or
submission.
   (2)   No approval for a grading and drainage permit shall be issued for an
intended development site unless one or more of the following have been
obtained as applicable:
      a.   Land use regulations that apply to the development have been
approved by the city of Rock Island where applicable.
      b.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the building official.
      c.   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the public works director for the
area in which the site is situated.
      d.   All relevant federal, state, and local permits.
      e.   Applicant is successful in the appeals process.
   (3)   Failure of the public works director to act on an original or revised
application within sixty (60) days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to
proceed in accordance with the plans as filed and in compliance with the
regulations contained herein, unless such time is extended by agreement between
the public works director and the applicant. Pending preparation and approval
of a revised plan, development activities may be allowed to proceed in
accordance with conditions established by the public works director. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-12. Other Agency Permits:
(a)   The public works director shall not issue a grading and drainage permit
unless all required federal, state and drainage district permits have been
obtained by the applicant and copies thereof reviewed by the public works
director. The acquisition of these permits shall be the sole responsibility of
the applicant. The granting of a grading and drainage permit under these
regulations shall in no way affect the owner's responsibility to obtain the
approval required by any other statute, ordinance or code, or to meet the
requirements of other city of Rock Island ordinances and regulations,
including, but not limited to: building permits; section 404 of the clean water
act; section 106 of the national historic preservation act; section 10 of the
rivers and harbors act; or permitting required by the Illinois department of
natural resources, office of water resources in accordance with the rivers,
lakes and streams act, 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes; the soil and water
conservation districts act, 70 Illinois Compiled Statutes; the farmland
preservation act, 505 Illinois Compiled Statutes; the Illinois groundwater
protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes; and the national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit (NPDES) and section 401 of the clean water
act through the Illinois environmental protection agency, division of water
pollution control; and the threatened and endangered species act, 16 USC 1531
et seq.
(b)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a "dam"
as defined herein, per 92 Illinois administrative code 702 (rules for
construction of dams), shall require an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit prior to
permit being issued by the city of Rock Island. Any development involving work
in waters of the United States, including wetlands and streams as identified
and regulated by the U.S. army corps of engineers, shall require permits or
sign-offs from the corps prior to the issuance of a city of Rock Island permit.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-13. Permit Limitations:
(a)   The issuance of a grading and drainage permit shall constitute an
authorization to do only that work which is described or illustrated on the
application for the permit or on the plans and specifications approved by the
public works director.
(b)   The issuance of a permit or the approval of drawings and specifications
shall not be construed to be a permit for, nor an approval of, any violation of
or deviation from the provision of these regulations or any other ordinance,
law, rule, or regulation.
(c)   The issuance of a permit, based upon drawings and specifications, shall
not prevent the public works director from thereafter requiring the correction
of errors in said drawings and specifications or from stopping unlawful
construction operations being carried on thereunder.
(d)   The grading and drainage permit shall be valid until the completion date
noted in the permit. The public works director may grant an extension if
relevant design and construction standards have not changed and if in the
public works director's opinion, the work approved under the permit does not
unduly adversely affect the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
Otherwise, a new permit shall be acquired before work is started or continued.
The public works director may require modification of the SWP3 to prevent any
increase in erosion or off site sediment runoff resulting from any extension.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 2-14. Revocation Of Permits:
(a)   The public works director may revoke a permit:
   (1)   Where there has been any false or inaccurate statement or
misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit was based.
   (2)   When work is performed contrary to the provisions of the application
or plans on which the permit is based.
(b)   When a permit is revoked, the public works director shall inform the
permittee, in writing, of the specific steps the permittee must take in order
to have the permit reissued.
(c)   It shall be unlawful to continue any work authorized by a permit after
revocation of that permit until that permit is reissued or until a new permit
is issued.
(d)   In cases where the permittee wishes to appeal the decision of the public
works director, the appeal process outlined in article I, division 9 of this
appendix will be followed. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from unless the public works director certifies to the
storm water board of appeals, after the notice of the appeal has been filed
with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-
22-2004)
Sec. 2-15. Retention Of Plans:
Plans, specifications, and reports for all site developments shall be retained
as required by Illinois statute by the public works director. (Ord. 33-2004, §
1, 3-22-2004)
ARTICLE III. POST CONSTRUCTION RUNOFF CONTROL
DIVISION 1. BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES HIERARCHY
Sec. 3-1. Use Of BMPs:
Use of BMPs identified by this appendix, or the use of any other BMPs submitted
for approval by the permittee as a substitute, will be a requirement of this
appendix in obtaining approval for subdivisions, building permits, and grading
and drainage permits. Their use will also present an opportunity (in some
cases, when allowed by ordinance) for the permittee to receive credits against
their storm water utility fees. This list of definitions is not exclusive and
developers are encouraged to submit alternative BMPs for approval by the public
works director. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-2. Preserving Regulatory Floodplains, Flood Prone And Wetland Areas:
(a)   Buffer Zones: An area along a shoreline, wetland, or stream where
development is restricted or prohibited. The primary function of aquatic
buffers is to physically protect and separate a stream, lake, or wetland from
future disturbance or encroachment. The three (3) types of buffers are water
pollution hazard setbacks, vegetated buffers, and engineered buffers.
(b)   Conservation Easements: Voluntary agreements that allow an individual or
group to set aside private property to limit the type or amount of development
on their property. The conservation easement can cover all or a portion of a
property and can either be permanent or last for a specified time. The easement
is typically described in terms of the resource it is designed to protect
(e.g., agricultural, forest, historic, or open space easements) and explains
and mandates the restrictions on the uses of the particular property. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-3. Minimizing Impervious Surfaces On The Property:
(a)   Open Space Design, Conservation Development: A better site design
technique that concentrates dwelling units in a compact area in one portion of
the development site in exchange for providing open space and natural areas
elsewhere on the site. The minimum lot sizes, setbacks and frontage distances
for the residential zone are relaxed in order to create the open space.
(b)   Narrower Streets: In many residential settings, streets can be as narrow
as twenty two (22) to twenty six feet (26') wide without sacrificing emergency
access, on street parking or vehicular and pedestrian safety. Even narrower
access streets or shared driveways can be used when only a handful of homes
need to be served. Use of narrower streets will only be allowed on public
streets by requesting a variance from the city of Rock Island subdivision
ordinance.
(c)   Eliminating Curbs And Gutters: Elimination of curbs and gutters involves
the use of grass swales and ditches as an alternative to curbs and gutters
along residential streets. Eliminating curbs and gutters from public streets
will only be allowed by requesting a variance from the city of Rock Island
subdivision ordinance.
(d)   Alternative Turnarounds: Alternative turnarounds are designs for end of
street vehicle turnaround that replace cul-de-sacs and reduce the amount of
impervious cover created in residential neighborhoods. Numerous alternatives
create less impervious cover than the traditional forty foot (40') cul-de-sac.
These alternatives include reducing cul-de-sacs to a thirty foot (30') radius
and creating hammerheads, loop roads, and pervious islands in the cul-de-sac
center by requesting a variance from the city of Rock Island subdivision
ordinance.
(e)   Alternative Pavers: Alternative pavers are permeable surfaces that can
replace asphalt and concrete and can be used for driveways, parking lots, and
walkways. Commercially available pavers are used which contain void spaces for
grass or clean, washed stone or gravel. Gravel, cobble, or mulch parking lots
are prohibited. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-4. Storm Water Wetlands, Grassed Swales And Vegetated Filter Strips:
(a)   Storm Water Wetlands: Storm water wetlands (a.k.a. constructed wetlands)
are structural practices similar to wet ponds that incorporate wetland plants
into the design. Storm water wetlands are designed specifically for the purpose
of treating storm water runoff. A distinction should be made between using a
constructed wetland for storm water management and diverting storm water into a
natural wetland. The latter practice is not recommended because altering the
hydrology of the existing wetland with additional storm water can degrade the
resource and result in plant die off and the destruction of wildlife habitat.
(b)   Grassed Swales: The term swale (a.k.a. grassed channel, dry swale, wet
swale, bio-filter) refers to a series of vegetated, open channel management
practices designed specifically to treat and attenuate storm water runoff for a
specified water quality volume. As storm water runoff flows through these
channels, it is treated through filtering by the vegetation in the channel,
filtering through a subsoil matrix, and/or infiltration into the underlying
soils.
(c)   Vegetated Filter Strips: Vegetated surfaces that are designed to treat
sheet flow from adjacent surfaces. Filter strips function by slowing runoff
velocities and filtering out sediment and other pollutants. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1,
3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-5. Infiltrating Runoff On Site:
(a)   Sand And Organic Filters: Sand filters are usually two (2) chambered
storm water practices; the first is a settling chamber, and the second is a
filter bed filled with sand or another filtering media. As storm water flows
into the first chamber, large particles settle out, and then finer particles
and other pollutants are removed as storm water flows through the filtering
medium. There are several modifications of the basic sand filter design,
including the surface sand filter, underground sand filter, perimeter sand
filter, organic media filter, and multichamber treatment train.
(b)   Infiltration Trenches: An infiltration trench is a rock filled trench
with no outlet that receives storm water runoff. Storm water runoff passes
through some combination of pretreatment measures, such as a swale and
detention basin, and into the trench. There, runoff is stored in the void space
between the stones and infiltrates through the bottom and into the soil matrix.
(c)   Infiltration Basins: A shallow impoundment which is designed to
infiltrate storm water into the ground water. Infiltration basins should only
be used on small drainage areas (less than 10 acres), and where soils are
highly permeable.
(d)   Porous Pavements: Porous pavement is a permeable pavement surface with an
underlying stone reservoir to temporarily store surface runoff before it
infiltrates into the subsoil. This porous surface replaces traditional
pavement, allowing parking lot storm water to infiltrate directly and receive
water quality treatment. There are a few porous pavement options, including
porous asphalt, pervious concrete, and grass pavers.
(e)   Bioretention: Bioretention areas are landscaping features adapted to
provide on site treatment of storm water runoff. They are commonly located in
parking lot islands or within small pockets of residential land uses. Surface
runoff is directed into shallow, landscaped depressions. These depressions are
designed to incorporate many of the pollutant removal mechanisms that operate
in forested ecosystems. During storms, runoff ponds above the mulch and soil in
the system. Runoff from larger storms is generally diverted past the facility
to the storm drain system. The remaining runoff filters through the mulch and
prepared soil mix. Typically, the filtered runoff is collected in a perforated
underdrain and returned to the storm drain system. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-
2004)
Sec. 3-6. Providing Storm Water Retention Structures:
(a)   On Lot Treatment: A series of practices that are designed to collect
runoff from individual residential or small commercial lots. The primary
purpose of most on lot practices is to manage rooftop runoff and, to a lesser
extent, driveway and sidewalk runoff. Although there are a wide variety of on
lot treatment options, they can all be classified into one of three (3)
categories: 1) practices that collect and infiltrate rooftop runoff; 2)
practices that divert runoff or soil moisture to a pervious area; and 3)
practices that store runoff for later use.
(b)   Retention Basins: Retention basins that are designed to collect and hold
storm water runoff, with no outlet pipes or structures. They are not
necessarily infiltration basins, and are best designed to rely mostly on
evaporation. Retention basins are only feasible when special circumstances of
land and soil type are available. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-7. Providing Wet Or Wetland Detention Structures:
Defined and controlled under division 3, "Detention System Design Criteria", of
this article. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-8. Providing Dry Detention Structures:
Defined and controlled under division 3, "Detention System Design Criteria", of
this article. Detention basins shall be designed to remove floatables from
storm water runoff by providing trash grates or special outlet structures which
separate floatables. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-9. Constructing Storm Sewers:
(a)   Manufactured Products For Storm Water Inlets: A variety of products for
storm water inlets known as swirl separators, or hydrodynamic structures. Swirl
separators are modifications of the traditional oil-grit separator and include
an internal component that creates a swirling motion as storm water flows
through a cylindrical chamber. The concept behind these designs is that
sediments settle out as storm water moves in this swirling path. Additional
compartments or chambers are sometimes present to trap oil and other
floatables. There are several different types of proprietary separators, each
of which incorporates slightly different design variations, such as off line
application.
(b)   Catch Basin Inserts: Catch basin efficiency can be improved using
commercially available inserts, which can be designed to remove oil and grease,
trash, debris, and sediment. Some inserts are designed to drop directly into
existing catch basins, while others may require being installed as part of the
construction of the basin.
(c)   In Line Storage Structures: In line storage refers to a number of
practices designed to use the storage within the storm drain system to detain
flows. Storage is achieved by placing devices in the storm drain system to
restrict the rate of flow. Devices can slow the rate of flow by backing up
flow, as in the case of a dam or weir, or through the use of vortex valves,
devices that reduce flow rates by creating a helical flow path in the
structure. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-10. Water Quality And Multiple Uses:
The drainage system should be designed to minimize adverse surface and ground
water quality impacts off site and on the property itself. Detention basins
shall incorporate design features to capture storm water runoff pollutants. All
flows from the development shall be routed through the basin (i.e., low flows
shall not be bypassed). Detention of storm water shall be promoted throughout
the property's drainage system to reduce the volume of storm water runoff and
to reduce the quantity of runoff pollutants. The drainage system should
incorporate multiple uses where practicable. Uses considered compatible with
storm water management include open space, aesthetics, aquatic habitat,
recreation (boating, fishing, trails, playing fields), wetlands and water
quality mitigation. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 2. HYDROLOGIC DESIGN CRITERIA FOR CLASS 3 PROJECTS
Sec. 3-11. Referenced Standards:
Design standards for hydrologic design shall comply with these regulations and
with the applicable provisions of the IDOT drainage and design manuals. Where
the IDOT drainage and design manuals do not detail requirements, the "Illinois
Urban Manual", latest edition, shall be used. Where this appendix imposes
greater restrictions than those imposed by the IDOT drainage and design manuals
or those required by other provisions of law or ordinance, the provisions of
this appendix shall prevail. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-12. Release Rates:
The drainage system for new developments or redevelopments shall be designed to
control the peak rate of discharge from the total property under development
for the 2-year, 24-hour, 10-year, 24-hour and 100-year, 24-hour events (3
recurrence interval events to consider) to preproject levels which will not
cause an increase in flooding or channel instability downstream when considered
in aggregate with other developed properties and downstream drainage
capacities. Where a detailed hydrologic or hydraulic model exists, release
rates shall be established and incorporated as part of this appendix. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-13. Drainage System Design And Evaluation:
The following criteria should be used in evaluating and designing the drainage
system. The design will provide capacity to pass the 10-year, 24-hour peak flow
in the minor drainage system and an overload flow path (major drainage system)
for flows in excess of the design capacity. Whenever practicable, the storm
water systems shall not result in the interbasin transfer of drainage unless no
other alternative exists.
The design rainfall recurrence interval shall be set by the design application
as follows:
Detention            100-year
Emergency overflow routing      100-year
Bridges            100-year
Roadway underpasses      50-year
Swales, ditches, and culverts      25-year
Storm sewers            10-year
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-14. Design Methodologies:
An applicable hydrologic design method may be selected from the "IDOT Drainage
Manual" with the following modifications and clarifications. Minor conveyance
systems for areas up to one hundred (100) acres, and major conveyance systems
up to ten (10) acres may be designed using the rational formula. Design runoff
rates may be calculated using a continuous simulation model or by event
hydrographic methods. If event hydrographic methods are used they must be HEC-
HMS, HEC-1, SCS TR20, or SCS TR55. Event methods must incorporate the following
assumptions:
   (1)   Antecedent moisture condition 2 (normal moisture).
   (2)   Huff or SCS type 2 distribution.
For design events the Illinois state water survey bulletin 70 (northwest)
rainfall data must be used. Storage volumes for detention must be 24-hour
events. Storm water conveyance capacities must be designed for the critical
duration creating the highest peak. The following table lists data from
bulletin 70:
FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTIONS (IN INCHES) FOR ZONE 1
ILLINOIS STATE WATER SURVEY, BULLETIN 70
Duration Frequency
         2-month 6-month 1-year 2-year 5-year 10-year 25-year 50-year 100-year
Duration  Frequency
          2-month 6-month 1-year 2-year 5-year 10-year 25-year 50-year 100-year
48 hour   1.47    2.24    2.80   3.42   4.28   4.96    6.07    7.02    8.07
24 hour   1.40    2.08    2.57   3.11   3.95   4.63    5.60    6.53    7.36
18 hour   1.30    1.92    2.37   2.86   3.63   4.26    5.15    6.01    6.92
12 hour   1.23    1.81    2.24   2.71   3.43   4.03    4.88    5.66    6.51
6 hour    1.06    1.56    1.93   2.33   2.96   3.48    4.20    4.90    5.69
2 hour    0.84    1.23    1.52   1.83   2.33   2.74    3.31    3.86    4.47
1 hour    0.67    0.98    1.21   1.46   1.86   2.18    2.63    3.07    3.51
30 minute 0.52    0.77    0.95   1.15   1.46   1.71    2.07    2.42    2.77
15 minute 0.38    0.57    0.70   0.84   1.07   1.25    1.51    1.76    1.99
5 minute  0.17    0.25    0.31   0.37   0.47   0.56    0.67    0.78    0.89
 
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-15. Positive Drainage:
All developments must be provided an overland flow path that will pass the 100-
year, 24-hour flow within designated drainage easements or the public right of
way with a freeboard of at least one foot (1'). Overland flow paths shall be
provided drainage easements unless the flow is contained in the public right of
way. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-16. Culvert, Road And Driveway Crossings:
Sizing of culvert crossings shall consider entrance and exit losses as well as
tailwater conditions on the culvert. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-17. Vegetated Filter Strips And Swales:
To effectively filter storm water pollutants and promote infiltration of
runoff, sites should be designed to maximize the use of vegetated filter strips
and swales, shall be designed to follow criteria in the "Illinois Urban
Manual". Whenever practicable, runoff from impervious surfaces should be
directed onto filter strips and swales comprised of native grasses and forbs
before being routed to a storm sewer or detention basin. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-
22-2004)
Sec. 3-18. Maintenance Considerations:
The storm water drainage system shall be designed to minimize and facilitate
maintenance. Use of native vegetation is strongly encouraged to reduce
maintenance, increase wildlife habitat, and to provide other benefits. Where
nonnative vegetation is used, turfed side slopes shall be designed to allow
lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins shall be provided
with alternate outflows, which can be used to completely drain the pool for
sediment removal. Pumping may be considered if drainage by gravity is not
feasible. Presedimentation basins shall be included, where feasible, for
localizing sediment deposition and removal. Site access for heavy equipment
shall be provided. A maintenance plan for the ongoing maintenance of all storm
water management system components including wetlands is required prior to plan
approval. The plan shall include:
   (1)   Maintenance tasks.
   (2)   The party responsible for performing the maintenance tasks.
   (3)   A description of all permanent public or private access maintenance
easements and overland flow paths, and compensatory storage areas.
   (4)   A description of dedicated sources of funding for the required
maintenance. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-19. Provisions For Agricultural Drainage:
(a)   Existing easements for any agricultural drainage systems located
underneath areas that will be developed shall be preserved. If no such easement
exists, an easement shall be dedicated for access and maintenance as provided
for in this appendix.
(b)   All agricultural drainage systems that serve upstream areas outside of
the development and that are located underneath areas that will be developed
shall be replaced with nonperforated conduit to prevent root blockage,
provided, however, that the existing drainage district system may remain in
place with the approval of the appropriate entity.
(c)   Agricultural drainage systems that, due to development, will be located
underneath streets, driveways, and other paved areas as allowed by this
appendix, shall be replaced with conduits meeting the city of Rock Island
standard specifications, as needed to prevent the collapse of the agricultural
drainage conduit.
(d)   Agricultural drainage systems may be relocated within the development
area upon the approval of the public works director. Such relocation shall
maintain sufficient slope and capacity to prevent sedimentation and to prevent
an increase in scouring or structural damage to the conduit. Such relocation
shall only be with the consent and approval of the appropriate entity
responsible for the system. If the system is not under the authority of a
drainage district, the public works director shall consider the interests of
those landowners who are served by the system. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-20. Channel Modifications:
Channel modification is acceptable if the purpose is to restore natural
conditions and improve water quality. If the proposed development activity
involves a channel modification, it must be demonstrated that:
   (1)   Water quality and other natural functions would be significantly
improved by the modification or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an
equivalent degree of natural resource values.
   (2)   The activity has been planned and designed and will be constructed in
a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural conditions of the
stream or body of water affected. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
DIVISION 3. DETENTION SYSTEM DESIGN CRITERIA
Sec. 3-21. Referenced Standards:
Design standards for detention basin design and construction shall comply with
the provisions of the following, unless otherwise stated by this appendix:
   (1)   "IL Urban Manual", latest edition.
   (2)   "IDOT Standard Specifications", latest edition.
   (3)   "IDOT Drainage Manual", latest edition.
   (4)   IL department of natural resources dam safety regulations.
   (5)   Clean water act (discharges regulated by the United States EPA through
NPDES permits).
   (6)   City of Rock Island standard details and specifications.
   (7)   The city of Rock Island subdivision, zoning or floodplain ordinances.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-22. Detention Storage Requirements:
The design storage to be provided in the detention basin shall be based on the
runoff from the runoff difference before and after development from the 100-
year, 24-hour event. All detention basin storage shall be computed using
hydrograph methods utilizing reservoir routing (also called modified puls or
level pool) or equivalent method as described by this appendix. (Ord. 33-2004,
§ 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-23. Waiver Of Requirements:
(a)   The requirement for storm water detention and release rate does not apply
when:
   (1)   The development is in accord with the approved site plan and is on a
lot in a new subdivision for which detention is otherwise provided.
   (2)   The development is on a lot or parcel in a subdivision for which
detention was provided and approved prior to the effective date of these
regulations.
(b)   The requirement for storm water detention and release rate shall be
waived by the public works director when he/she determines it is in the best
interest of the city of Rock Island to require a fee in lieu of detention as
described in section
3-35 of this division. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-24. Ownership:
Detention basins are owned by the property owner (often a homeowners'
association) unless otherwise described by this appendix or indicated by the
public works director. Property developers shall contact the public works
director to inquire about the ownership and maintenance responsibility of
existing regional detention basins which may affect the development. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-25. Maintenance And Repair Responsibilities:
(a)   Detention ponds and associated inflow and outflow systems are maintained
by the property owner absent any specific legal agreement to the contrary.
(b)   Maintenance agreements may be required at the option of the public works
director to define parties responsible for the maintenance of commercial
detention basins.
(c)   The detention basin owner shall be responsible for the following items:
   (1)   An annual report on the detention basin condition, using the attached
checklist, shall be submitted to the public works director.
   (2)   At five (5) year intervals, the basin shall be inspected by a
professional engineer registered in the state of Illinois. A report of this
inspection shall be submitted to the public works director within sixty (60)
days of the inspection. The inspection shall include an evaluation of the
checklist items in the attached checklist. An annual report is not required the
year when the five (5) year report is due.
   (3)   Detention basin owners shall notify subsequent owners of their
maintenance responsibilities and transfer basin maintenance records to the
party with active maintenance responsibility.
   (4)   These requirements shall be effective for all detention basins
existing in the city of Rock Island on the adoption date hereof as well as
detention basins constructed after the effective date. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-
22-2004)
Sec. 3-26. General Basin Design Requirements:
(a)   Erosion Control: Temporary and permanent erosion control shall be
required for all detention basins in accordance with this appendix.
(b)   Verification And Final Approval:
   (1)   Erosion protection shall be inspected throughout the project duration.
   (2)   Detention basin storage volume shall be verified to the satisfaction
of the public works director through as built surveys or other means.
   (3)   Inflow, outflow and emergency overflow elevations shall be verified
through as built surveys.
   (4)   Final vegetative cover and permanent erosion control shall be
inspected for completeness of cover.
   (5)   The basin will receive final approval upon fulfillment of subsections
(b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section, and the anniversary date of
maintenance and repair reporting will be recorded as such.
   (6)   All basins must receive final approval within ninety (90) days of the
substantial completion as determined by the public works director of any of the
following:
      a.   The first phase (as shown on approved plans) of construction of
public utilities and roadways in any approved subdivision project. Detention
structures for the ultimate development area must be constructed during the
first phase of the project, and approved at its completion. The detention
structures must then be maintained and repaired in conformance with this
appendix, during future construction phases.
      b.   Parking areas, floor slabs and/or other impervious areas (as shown
on approved plans, and not including sidewalks) for work on an individual lot
requiring an individual permit under this appendix. Phased construction will be
treated as in the above case.
      c.   Mass earthwork or rough grading, if no other phased construction is
scheduled to be started within one hundred eighty (180) days.
   (7)   Failure to receive final approval as required will be considered a
violation of this appendix.
(c)   Infiltration Practices: To effectively reduce runoff volumes,
infiltration practices including basins, trenches, and porous pavement and
shall follow criteria in the "Illinois Urban Manual" and other relevant
permitting. An appropriate sediment control device shall be provided to remove
coarse sediment from storm water flows before they reach infiltration basins or
trenches. Storm water shall not be allowed to stand more than seventy two (72)
hours over eighty percent (80%) of the dry basin's bottom area for the maximum
design event to be exfiltrated. The bottom of infiltration basins or trenches
shall be a minimum of three feet (3') above the seasonally high ground water
and bedrock level if practicable. Engineering calculations demonstrating
infiltration rates shall be included with the application.
(d)   Side Slopes: The side slopes of all detention basins at 100-year, 24-hour
capacity should be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls into the
basin and for stability and ease of maintenance. Side slopes of detention
basins and open channels shall not be steeper than three to one (3:1)
horizontal to vertical - certain types of basins have different requirements as
defined by this appendix. Detention basin side slopes above normal pool shall
be designed with permanent erosion protection consisting of grass, nongrass
vegetation, or other permanent finish. At least six inches (6") of topsoil must
be provided on side slopes above normal pool elevation whenever nonstructural,
permanent erosion control is not being used. Permanent erosion protection shall
be aesthetically suitable to the development or existing surrounding land use.
(e)   Overflow Structures: All storm water detention basins shall be provided
with an overflow structure capable of safely passing excess flows at a stage at
least one foot (1') below the lowest foundation grade in the vicinity of the
detention basin. The design flow rate of the overflow structure shall be
equivalent to the 100-year, 24-hour inflow rate. Weirs, dams and specialized
outflows shall be designed by a professional engineer registered in the state
of Illinois.
(f)   Detention Basin Outlet Design:
   (1)   Backwater: Backwater on the outlet structure from the downstream
drainage system shall be addressed when designing the outlet.
   (2)   Minimum Detention Outlet Size: Where a single pipe outlet or orifice
plate is to be used to control discharge, it shall have a minimum diameter of
twelve inches (12"). If design release rates call for smaller outlets, a design
that minimizes the possibility of clogging shall be used.
(g)   Other Design Requirements:
   (1)   "Bubble up" outlets are prohibited.
   (2)   Pumped outlets and other active control structures are discouraged and
must be preapproved on a case by case basis by the public works director.
   (3)   Temporary erosion techniques shall be used as required to ensure a
full stand of cover vegetation in minimum time.
(h)   Location Requirements:
   (1)   In subdivisions, detention basins and their 100-year design high water
shall be contained within platted lots dedicated for drainage purposes. In
redevelopments, detention basins and their 100-year design high water shall be
contained within a drainage easement.
   (2)   Detention basin lots shall have a minimum of twenty feet (20') of
frontage on a right of way for the purpose of providing unrestricted access for
maintenance. Exceptions may be made for infill development.
   (3)   A twenty foot (20') minimum setback shall be required from all
property lines to the normal pool elevation which is considered to be the
elevation of the water level at the permanent depth of the wet basin pool
rather than the temporary depth during drainage events.
   (4)   Detention basins shall be provided with a minimum of one foot (1') of
freeboard above the 100-year design water elevation.
   (5)   There shall be at least two feet (2') of freeboard between the 100-
year design water elevation and all boundaries of the parcel or easement
containing the basin.
(i)   Accommodating Flows From Upstream Tributary Areas: Storm water runoff
from areas tributary to the property shall be considered in the design of the
property's drainage system. Flows from upstream areas that are not to be
detained should be routed around the basin being provided for the site being
developed.
(j)   Upstream Areas Not Meeting Ordinance Requirements: When there are areas
not meeting the storage and release rates of this appendix, tributary to the
applicant's property, the following steps shall be followed:
   (1)   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for his property
using the release rates and procedures described in this appendix.
   (2)   Areas tributary to the applicant's property, not meeting the storage
and release rate requirements of this appendix, shall be identified.
   (3)   Using the areas determined above plus the applicant's property area,
total storage and release rates needed for the combined properties shall be
computed using the release rates and procedures described in this appendix. If
tributary areas are not developed, a reasonable fully developed land cover,
based on local zoning, shall be used for the purposes of computing storage.
   (4)   Once the necessary combined storage is computed the city of Rock
Island may choose to pay for oversizing the applicant's detention basin to
accommodate the regional flows. The applicant's responsibility will be limited
to the storage for his property as computed above. If regional storage is
selected by the city of Rock Island, the public works director will work with
the applicant to implement the requirements of this appendix. If regional
storage is rejected by the city of Rock Island, the applicant shall bypass all
tributary area flows around the applicant's basin whenever practicable as
determined by the public works director. If the applicant must route upstream
flows through his basin and the upstream areas exceed one square mile in size,
the applicant must meet the provisions of subsection 3-30(3), "On Stream
Detention", of this division.
(k)   Upstream Areas Meeting Appendix Requirements: When there are areas which
meet the storage and release rate requirements of this appendix, tributary to
the applicant's property, the upstream flows shall be bypassed around the
applicant's detention basin if this is the only practicable alternative as
determined by public works director. Storage needed for the applicant's
property shall be computed as described in this appendix. However, if the city
of Rock Island decides to route tributary area flows through an applicant's
basin, the final design storm water releases shall be based on the combined
total of the applicant's property plus tributary areas. It must be shown that
at no time will the runoff rate from the applicant's property exceed the
allowable release rate for his/her property alone.
(l)   Early Completion Of Detention Facilities: Where detention or retention
are to be used as part of the drainage system for a property, they shall be
constructed as the first element of the initial earthwork program. Any eroded
sediment captured in these facilities shall be removed by the applicant on a
regular basis and before project completion in order to maintain the design
volume of the facilities. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-27. Wet Detention Basin Design:
Wet detention basins shall be designed to remove storm water pollutants, to be
safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as much as feasible to be available for
recreational use.
   (1)   Wet Basin Depths: Wet basins shall be at least three feet (3') deep,
excluding near-shore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be provided
they shall be at least ten feet (10') deep over twenty five percent (25%) of
the bottom area to prevent winter kill.
   (2)   Wet Basin Shoreline Slopes: The side slopes of wet basins at the
normal pool elevation shall not be steeper than five to one (5:1) horizontal to
vertical. It is recommended that native aquatic vegetation be established
around the perimeter to provide protection from shoreline erosion. Slopes below
a depth of eight feet (8') are permitted to be two to one (2:1), in accordance
with "IDOT Standard Specifications", section 204.
   (3)   Permanent Pool Volume: The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at
normal depth shall be equal to the runoff volume from its watershed for the 2-
year, 24-hour event as a minimum.
   (4)   Wet Basin Inlet And Outlet Orientation: The distance between detention
inlets and outlets shall be maximized. Inlets and outlets shall be at opposite
ends of the basin providing that the orientation does not create undue hardship
based on topography or other natural constraints. Designers are encouraged to
use baffles or berms in the basin bottom to prevent short circuiting. There
shall be no low flow bypass between the inlet and outlet. The minimum flow
length shall be ten feet (10') with a recommended minimum ratio of two to one
(2:1) for width.
   (5)   Safety Ledge: All wet detention basins shall have a level safety ledge
at least four feet (4') in width two and one-half (2 1/2) to three feet (3')
below the normal water depth.
   (6)   Aeration: Wet bottom basins shall have a natural or artificial means
of aeration.
   (7)   Dewatering: An outlet structure shall be provided to allow dewatering
of the pond for maintenance. Gravity dewatering is strongly preferred.
   (8)   Soil Permeability: Wet bottom basin design shall include an evaluation
of soil permeability. A basin liner shall be included in the design if needed
to ensure water retention to normal pool elevation.
   (9)   Detention/Sedimentation: It is encouraged that consideration of
routing runoff from the development through a stilling basin be considered.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-28. Dry Detention Basin Design:
In addition to the other requirements of this appendix, dry basins shall be
designed to remove storm water pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically
pleasing and as much as feasible to be available for multiple uses.
   (1)   Dry Basin Drainage: Dry basins shall be designed so that eighty
percent (80%) of their bottom area shall have standing water no longer than
seventy two (72) hours for any runoff event less than the 100-year, 24-hour
event. Grading plans shall clearly distinguish the wet portion of the basin
bottom. Underdrains directed to the outlet may be used to accomplish this
requirement.
   (2)   Minimum Bottom Slope: Dry bottom basins shall have two percent (2%)
minimum bottom slopes or underdrain systems as approved by the city engineer.
   (3)   Low Flow Channel: Dry bottom basins may include a low flow channel
with some form of erosion protection.
   (4)   Velocity Dissipation: Velocity dissipation measures shall be
incorporated into dry basin designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets
and to minimize resuspension of pollutants.
   (5)   Dry Basin Inlet And Outlet Orientation: Dry basin inlet and outlet
orientation shall be the same as for wet basins.
   (6)   Temporary Sediment Trap: A sediment trap shall be constructed at each
major inlet to a dry basin during construction. The temporary sediment trap
should be designed in accordance with criteria in the "Illinois Urban Manual".
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-29. Detention On Prime Farmland:
The placement of detention basins shall avoid the utilization of prime
farmland. All detention basin construction shall examine potential impacts to
adjacent agricultural land and shall address measures that will be implemented
to eliminate such impacts and comply with other relevant permitting. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-30. Detention In Floodplains:
The placement of detention basins within the floodplain is strongly discouraged
because of questions about their reliable operation during flood events.
However, the storm water detention requirements of this appendix may be
fulfilled by providing detention storage within flood fringe areas on the
project site, provided the following provisions are met as well as all required
state, federal and local permits:
   (1)   Detention In Flood Fringe Areas: The placement of a detention basin in
a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for 1.5 times the volume
below the base flood elevation occupied by the detention basin, including any
berms. The release from the detention storage provided shall still be
controlled consistent with the requirements of this division. The applicant
shall demonstrate its operation for all stream flow and floodplain backwater
conditions. Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses shall be
opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention. All floodplain storage
lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced below the
existing 10-year elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-
year flood elevation shall be replaced above the existing 10-year flood
elevation. All compensatory storage excavations shall be constructed to drain
freely and openly to the watercourse.
   (2)   Detention In Floodways: Detention basins shall be placed in the
floodway only in accordance with subsection (3) of this section.
   (3)   On Stream Detention: On stream detention basins are discouraged but
allowable if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other
provisions of this appendix with respect to water quality and control of the 5-
year and 100-year, 24-hour events from the property. The volume of detention
shall be provided in addition to the existing stream floodway storage. Further
criteria are presented in section
3-31 of this division. If on stream detention is used in watersheds larger than
one square mile, the applicant will use hydrographic modeling to demonstrate
that the design will not increase the water level for any properties upstream
or downstream of the property. Also, impoundment of the stream as part of on
stream detention:
      a.   Shall not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species, which
require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for
spawning;
      b.   Shall not cause or contribute to the degradation of water quality or
stream aquatic habitat;
      c.   Shall include a design calling for gradual bank slopes, appropriate
bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin;
      d.   Shall not involve any stream channelization or the filling of
wetlands;
      e.   Shall require the implementation of an effective nonpoint source
management program throughout the upstream watershed which shall include as a
minimum: Runoff reduction "best management practices" (BMPs) consistent with
division 1 of this article;
      f.   Shall not occur downstream of a wastewater discharge;
      g.   Shall not contribute to the duration or flood frequency of any
adjacent land. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-31. Drainage Into Wetlands, Rivers, Streams, Lakes, Ponds, And Areas:
Wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes and ponds shall be protected from damaging
modifications and adverse changes in runoff quality and quantity associated
with land developments. In addition to the other requirements of this appendix,
the following requirements shall be met for all developments whose drainage
flows into wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes or ponds:
   (1)   Detention In Wetlands, Rivers, Streams, Lakes Or Ponds: Existing
wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes, or ponds shall not be modified for the
purposes of storm water detention unless it is demonstrated that the proposed
modifications will maintain or improve its habitat and ability to perform
beneficial functions and shall comply with other relevant permitting. Existing
storage and release rate characteristics of wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes or
ponds shall be maintained and the volume of detention storage provided to meet
the requirements of this division shall be in addition to this existing
storage.
   (2)   Sediment Control: The existing wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes or
ponds shall be protected during construction and as further regulated in
division 1 of this article.
   (3)   Alteration Of Drainage Patterns: Site drainage patterns shall not be
altered to substantially decrease or increase the existing area tributary to
wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes or ponds. Drainage patterns shall not be
altered by development to direct runoff off site to other than natural drainage
outlets existing prior to development.
   (4)   Detention/Sedimentation: All runoff from the development shall be
routed through a preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture
the 2-year, 24-hour event and hold it for at least twenty four (24) hours,
before being discharged to the basin. This basin shall be constructed before
property grading begins and shall be maintained throughout the construction
process. In addition, the BMP hierarchy defined in section 3-5 of this article
should be followed to minimize runoff volumes and rates being discharged.
   (5)   Vegetated Buffer Strip: A buffer strip of at least twenty five feet
(25') in width, preferably vegetated with native plant species, shall be
maintained or restored around the periphery of a wetland, river, stream, lake
or pond. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-32. Street Detention:
If streets are to be used as part of the minor or major drainage system,
ponding depths shall follow the criteria below:
   (1)   Principal And Minor Arterials:
      a.   Flow from a 10-year storm shall not inundate the center twenty feet
(20') of the pavement.
      b.   Flow from a 50-year storm shall be carried without damage to any
building.
   (2)   Collector Streets:
      a.   Flow from a 10-year storm shall not inundate the center ten feet
(10') of the pavement.
      b.   Flow from a 50-year storm shall be carried without damage to any
building.
   (3)   Local Streets:
      a.   Flow from a 10-year storm shall not top the curb.
      b.   Flow from a 50-year storm shall be carried without damage to any
building. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-33. Parking Lot Detention:
The maximum storm water ponding depth in any parking area shall not exceed six
inches (6"). (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-34. Rooftop Detention:
Rooftop storage of excess storm water shall be designed and constructed to meet
with the city of Rock Island building code. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-35. Fee In Lieu Of Detention:
(a)   For the purpose of satisfying the requirements for storm water detention
or compensatory storage for a development or redevelopment on a property for
which detention or compensatory storage was not previously provided, a fee in
lieu of detention or compensatory storage may be assessed against the
development prior to the issuance of a permit. Fees shall be calculated to
establish the property's fair share of costs to provide detention or
compensatory storage for the watershed or drainage basin in which the property
exists. The cost figures used for detention shall be actual costs for detention
or compensatory storage being provided by contract or estimated costs for
planned detention or compensatory storage facilities approved by the public
works director. All revenues received through such fees shall be used for no
purpose other than defraying public costs associated with providing detention
or compensatory storage facilities.
(b)   The city of Rock Island also may require a fee for each acre/foot of
detention needed in lieu of the applicant building a basin on site, provided
the property will discharge storm water into existing or proposed detention
facilities with added capacity for the additional runoff. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1,
3-22-2004)
Sec. 3-36. Cooperative Detention:
The city of Rock Island will consider joint detention facilities developed
through cooperative efforts that comply with all requirements of this appendix.
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
ARTICLE IV. STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWP3)
Sec. 4-1. General:
(a)   The area disturbed shall be assumed to include the entire property area
unless the applicable plans specifically exclude certain areas from
disturbance.
(b)   The owner bears the responsibility for implementation of the SWP3 and
notification of all contractors and utility agencies on the site.
(c)   SWP3s must be provided for all phases of development, including sanitary
sewer construction, storm drainage system construction, waterline, street and
sidewalk construction, general grading and the construction of individual
homes. The class 3 grading and drainage permit holder will not be required to
provide an SWP3 for the activities of utility agencies.
(d)   The regulations for construction or postconstruction management will be
used for all regulated construction sites that are contained in the most recent
edition of the "Illinois Urban Manual".
(e)   The city of Rock Island will use the Illinois department of
transportation (IDOT) system of compliance that is outlined in the "Bureau Of
Design And Environment (BDE) Design Manual".
(f)   The subsequent owners of individual lots in a subdivision with an
approved SWP3 bears the responsibility for continued implementation of the
approved SWP3s for all construction activity within or related to the
individual lot, excluding construction managed by utility agencies. (Ord. 33-
2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-2. Requirements For Utility Construction:
(a)   Utility companies shall be responsible for compliance with the
requirements of this appendix.
(b)   Utility companies shall develop and implement best management practices
(BMPs) to prevent the discharge of pollutants on any site of utility
construction within the city of Rock Island. Disturbed areas shall be
minimized, disturbed soil shall be managed and construction site entrances
shall be managed to prevent sediment tracking. Sediment tracked onto public
streets shall be removed immediately by the utility agency.
(c)   Prior to entering a construction site, utility agencies shall obtain a
copy of any SWP3s for the project from the owner. Any disturbance to BMPs
resulting from utility construction shall be repaired immediately by the
utility company in compliance with the SWP3. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-3. Required Documentation:
A class 3 grading and drainage permit requires the execution and record
maintenance of the following forms and reports (see also the erosion control
plan action matrix, NPDES action matrix - IDOT). The most current version of
the standard forms from the Illinois department of transportation and the
Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA) shall be used. The approved
project erosion control documents shall be kept on file at the construction
site or at a nearby field office and must be made available to the general
public upon request.
   (1)   A storm water pollution prevention plan (SWP3) using the IDOT SWP3
template (form BDE 2342).
   (2)   A contractor certification statement (CCS) prepared prior to the start
of construction by the contractor responsible for erosion control using the
IDOT CCS template (form BDE 2342a). The grading and drainage permit holder
shall provide the contractor responsible for erosion control with a copy of the
IEPA NPDES statewide permit ILR10.
   (3)   A notice of intent (NOI) shall be filed at least forty eight (48)
hours prior to the start of construction and shall be prepared by the grading
and drainage permit holder (the original sent by certified mail to the IEPA
with transmittal copy to the public works director, and a copy kept in the
project erosion control file). Use the IDOT NOI template (found in forms
section of the "IDOT Construction Manual" WPC 623).
   (4)   An NPDES/erosion control inspection report (ECIR) shall be prepared by
the grading and drainage permit holder on a weekly basis and after any one-half
inch (1/2") rainfall (to be kept in project erosion control file). Use current
IDOT ECIR template (BC 2259).
   (5)   An incidence of noncompliance (ION) and corrective action shall be
filed by the grading and drainage permit holder within five (5) working days of
the incident (the original sent by certified mail to the IEPA with transmittal
copy to the public works director and a copy kept in the project erosion
control file). Use current IDOT ION template (found in forms section of the
"IDOT Construction Manual" WPC 624).
   (6)   A notice of termination (NOT) shall be filed upon final stabilization
of erosion (minimum 70 percent viable vegetative growth) by the grading and
drainage permit holder (the original sent by certified mail to the IEPA with
transmittal copy to the public works director and a copy kept in the project
erosion control file). Use current IDOT NOT template V (found in forms section
of the "IDOT Construction Manual" WPC 621). (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-4. Applicability And Guidelines:
(a)   It is the responsibility of the grading and drainage permit holder to
prepare and maintain documentation to meet the NPDES permit requirements for
private grading and construction projects.
(b)   The public works director shall be given immediate access to all required
project NPDES documents.
(c)   All notices sent to the IEPA shall be copied to the public works
director. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-5. Referenced Standards:
Design standards for erosion and sediment control shall comply with the most
current provisions of the USEPA regulations, IEPA regulations, IDOT erosion
control/NPDES guidelines and per the "Illinois Urban Manual", prepared by the
United States department of agriculture, natural resources conservation service
unless otherwise stated by this appendix. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-6. General Erosion And Sediment Control Design Features:
The following principles shall apply to all construction undertaken under the
authorization of a class 3 grading and drainage permit:
   (1)   New development or redevelopment shall be designed to create the least
potential for erosion. The disturbance of slopes greater than seven percent
(7%) should be avoided wherever possible. Natural contours should be followed
as closely as possible.
   (2)   Natural vegetation shall be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds, and wetlands
are to be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary crossings of
watercourses, when permitted, must include appropriate stabilization measures.
   (3)   Special precautions shall be taken to prevent damages resultant from
any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake, pond
or wetland. Preventive measures shall reflect the sensitivity of these areas to
erosion and sedimentation.
   (4)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.
   (5)   Sediment basins or traps, filter barriers, diversions, and any other
appropriate sediment or runoff control measures shall be installed prior to
site clearing and grading and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters
from land undergoing development.
   (6)   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetics
and the requirements of continuing maintenance must be considered.
   (7)   Provisions shall be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions during and after development. Drainageways
should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant velocities
and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion on site or
downstream.
   (8)   Permanent vegetation and structures shall be installed and functional
as soon as practical during development. Disturbed areas shall be stabilized
with approved permanent measures within seven (7) calendar days following the
end of active disturbance or redisturbance.
   (9)   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other land
uses shall be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
   (10)   All waste generated as a result of site development activity shall be
properly disposed of and shall be prevented from being carried off the site by
either wind or water.
   (11)   All construction sites shall provide measures to prevent sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways.
   (12)   All temporary soil erosion and sediment control practices shall be
maintained to function as intended until the contributing drainage area has
been permanently stabilized at which time they shall be removed within thirty
(30) days after final site stabilization. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-7. Materials And Construction Notes:
(a)   Silt fence and coconut fiber shall be installed in accordance with the
material and construction requirements of the "Illinois Urban Manual".
(b)   Erosion control blankets, bales, seeding and riprap shall be installed in
accordance with material and construction requirements of the "Illinois Urban
Manual", latest edition. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-8. Testing And Inspection:
Use the residents' weekly NPDES/erosion control inspection report BC 2259 from
the "Illinois DOT Construction Manual". (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-9. Soil Grading And Drainage Plan Requirements:
A soil grading and drainage plan shall be submitted showing all measures
necessary to meet the objectives of this appendix throughout all phases of
construction. The development of a soil grading and drainage plan shall follow
the requirements of this appendix and the procedures in the latest edition of
the "Illinois Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil Erosion And Sedimentation
Control" which is hereby incorporated into this appendix by reference.
Standards and specifications for BMPs shall follow the requirements of this
appendix and the criteria in the latest edition of the "Illinois Urban Manual"
which is hereby incorporated into this appendix by reference. The public works
director may waive specific requirements for the content of submissions upon
finding that the information submitted is sufficient to show that the work will
comply with the objectives and principles of this appendix. Permanent soil
erosion and sediment control features needed at the completion of any
development site shall be included in the submittal.
The submitted soil grading and drainage plan shall include:
   (1)   Mapping And Descriptions: The existing and proposed erosion and
sediment control features of the property and immediate vicinity including:
      a.   Items as required for the grading and drainage plan submittal.
      b.   Location of the slope disturbance line.
      c.   Location and description of the soil erosion and sediment control
measures to be employed during construction.
      d.   For any structures proposed to be located on the slope side of the
slope disturbance line, the map shall include the limits of disturbance
including: tree removal, soil erosion and sediment control measures during
construction, details of method(s) proposed for providing slope stability,
permanent storm water control measures, and permanent erosion and sediment
control measures all being certified by a registered professional engineer or a
"certified professional erosion control specialist".
      e.   The predominant soil types on the site, their location, and their
limitations for the proposed use as defined by the USDA natural resources
conservation service (NRCS).
      f.   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures and specifics of sediment basins and traps, including
outlet details.
      g.   Location and description (specification) of all soil stabilization
and erosion control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of
sod, method of seedbed preparation (type and extent of tillage, weed control,
planting equipment, etc.), expected seeding dates, type, method and rate of
lime and fertilizer application (soil fertility testing required), kind and
quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent vegetative control
measures, and types of nonvegetative stabilization measures.
      h.   Location and description of all runoff control measures, including
diversions, waterways, and outlets.
   (2)   Larger Sites: Larger sites, at the discretion of the public works
director, and those requiring a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWP3),
may also require the following:
      a.   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of sediment
off site including construction entrance details, as appropriate.
      b.   Description of dust and traffic control measures.
      c.   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including type and
frequency of maintenance, easements, and estimates of the cost of maintenance.
      d.   Identification (name, address, and telephone) of the person(s) or
entity which will have legal responsibility for maintenance of soil erosion
control structures and measures during development and after development is
completed. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 4-10. Site Development Requirements:
On site sediment control measures, as specified by the following criteria,
shall be constructed as specified in the referenced handbooks, and functional
prior to initiating clearing, grading, stripping, excavating or fill activities
on the site:
   (1)   For new developments or redevelopments of more than one acre but less
than five (5) acres, a sediment trap or equivalent control measure shall be
constructed at the downslope point of the disturbed area.
   (2)   For new developments or redevelopments of one acre or greater than
five (5) acres, a sediment basin or equivalent control measure shall be
constructed at the downslope point of the disturbed area.
   (3)   Sediment basin and sediment trap designs shall provide for both "dry"
detention and "wet" detention sediment storage. The detention storage shall be
composed of equal volumes of "wet" detention storage and "dry" detention
storage and each shall be sized as regulated in this appendix. The release rate
of the basin shall be that rate as regulated in this appendix. The elevation of
the outlet structure shall be placed such that it only drains the dry detention
storage.
   (4)   The sediment storage shall be sized to store the estimated sediment
load generated from the site over the duration of the construction period with
a minimum storage equivalent to the volume or sediment generated in one year.
For construction periods exceeding one year, the one year sediment load and a
sediment removal schedule may be substituted.
   (5)   To the extent possible or as otherwise regulated in this appendix all
desirable trees eight inches (8") in diameter and larger shall be protected for
their present and future value for erosion protection and other environmental
benefits. Trees that have been selected for preservation shall be protected
following criteria from "Illinois Urban Manual" prior to the beginning of any
clearing, grading, stripping, excavation, or filling of the site. A "no"
construction zone shall be established and marked at the perimeter of the
dripline of each tree which is to be preserved.
   (6)   Storm water conveyance channels, including ditches, swales, and
diversions, and the outlets of all channels and pipes shall be designed and
constructed as regulated in this appendix. All constructed or modified channels
shall be stabilized within forty eight (48) hours, consistent with the
following standards and as required in the referenced handbooks:
      a.   For grades up to four percent (4%), seeding in combination with
mulch, erosion blanket, or an equivalent control measure shall be applied. Sod
or erosion blanket or mat shall be applied to the bottom of the channel.
      b.   For grades of four (4) to eight percent (8%), sod or an equivalent
control measure shall be applied in the channel.
      c.   For grades greater than eight percent (8%), rock, riprap, or an
equivalent control measure shall be applied over filter fabric or other type of
soil protection, or the grade shall be effectively reduced using drop
structures.
   (7)   Land disturbance activities in stream channels shall be avoided, where
possible, or as regulated by this appendix. If disturbance activities are
unavoidable, the following requirements shall be met:
      a.   Construction vehicles shall be kept out of the stream channel to the
maximum extent practicable. Where construction crossings are necessary,
temporary crossings shall be constructed of nonerosive material, such as riprap
or gravel.
      b.   The time and area of disturbance of stream channels shall be kept to
a minimum. The stream channel, including bed and banks, shall be stabilized
within forty eight (48) hours after channel disturbance is completed,
interrupted, or stopped.
      c.   Whenever channel relocation is necessary, the new channel shall be
constructed under dry conditions and fully stabilized before flow is diverted,
incorporating meanders, pool and riffle sequence, and riparian planting.
   (8)   Storm sewer inlets and culverts shall be protected by sediment traps
or filter barriers meeting accepted design standards and specifications.
   (9)   Soil storage piles containing more than ten (10) cubic yards of
material shall not be located with a downslope drainage length of less than
fifty feet (50') to a roadway, drainage channel, or abandoned mine. Filter
barriers, including straw bales, filter fence, or equivalent, shall be
installed immediately surrounding the perimeter of the pile.
   (10)   If dewatering devices are used, discharge locations shall be
protected from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be routed through
appropriately designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent and shall not be
deposited into an abandoned mine.
   (11)   Each site shall have graveled (or equivalent) entrance roads, access
drives, and parking areas of sufficient length and width to prevent sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment reaching a
public or private road shall be removed by shoveling or street cleaning (not
flushing) before the end of each workday and transported to a controlled
sediment disposal area. (Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
ARTICLE V. FEES
Sec. 5-1. Fees Regulated:
(a)   Grading and drainage permits   $10.00
(b)   Appeal to the storm water
board of appeals   80.00
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
ARTICLE VI. SAMPLE FORMS
Sec. 6-1. Letter Of Credit:
SAMPLE
LETTER OF CREDIT
(name of bank)
 
(City bank's located) ,  (State)
Irrevocable Credit No.                   Date:    , 20          
City of Rock Island, Illinois All drafts must be marked:
               , Illinois         "Drawn under Credit No.   ,
dated ______, 20          
Gentlemen:
We hereby open an Irrevocable Letter of Credit in the amount of    
            ($   ) in your favor for the account of    
(Developer), the developer of  (name of project)   ,
proposed in the City of Rock Island    , Illinois,
or within its territorial jurisdiction, for the benefit of the City of Rock
Island.
Said money hereunder shall be available by your drafts at sight drawn on us
drawn in the name of the City of Rock Island, Illinois. All drafts so drawn
must be marked "Drawn under  (name of bank) , Credit No.                 dated
              , 20          ."
Drafts must be accompanied by a signed statement by the Public Works Director
of the City of Rock Island, Illinois, that the request is for the installation
or construction of improvements required pursuant to the plans, specifications,
and cost estimates dated                , 20          , and approved by the
City of Rock Island, Illinois, and on file with the Public Works Director.
Further, all requests for disbursements under this Letter of Credit made prior
to  (must be 2 years after filing) , 20           , shall be submitted by
developer and accompanied by a certified estimate of units and value of work
completed with contractor's sworn statement and waiver of mechanics' liens, all
approved by the Developer's engineer and the Public Works Director of the City
of Rock Island, Illinois. It is understood as to all disbursements that the
Public Works Director shall approve partial drawings only as long as there
remains a sufficient balance to the Credit to cover his then current estimate
of costs for the required improvements which at that time remain to be
completed but in no case shall his approval exceed ninety percent (90%) of the
value of work completed.
In the event that all of the work for the improvements is not completed to the
satisfaction of the City/County on or before  (1 day short of 2 years after
filing) , 20           , the funds remaining under this Letter of Credit shall
be available to the City of Rock Island, Illinois upon presentation of their
draft at sight drawn on us in the name of the City of Rock Island, Illinois.
This draft so drawn must be marked "Drawn under  (name of bank) , Credit No.
               , dated                , 20     ." Further, such draft shall be
accompanied by a signed statement by the Public Works Director of the City of
Rock Island, Illinois as follows: "I,  (name) , Public Works Director for the
City of Rock Island, Illinois, do hereby certify that work on required
improvements for the project named                       has not been completed
to the satisfaction of the City of Rock Island, Illinois on or before  (one day
short of two years after filing) , 20       .
This Credit shall expire on  (2 years after filing) , 20        ; provided,
however, the undersigned shall notify the Public Works Director by certified
mail, return receipt requested, at least 90 days prior to expiration date that
this Letter of Credit is about to expire and provided, however, in no event
shall this Credit expire except upon prior written notice, it being expressly
agreed by the undersigned that the above expiration date shall be extended as
shall be required to comply with this notice provision.
The undersigned further agrees that this Credit shall remain in full force and
effect and pertain to any and all amendments or modifications which may be made
from time to time to the specifications, and agreements for the project,
without notice from the City/County of the amendments or modifications.
All acts, requirements and other preconditions for the issuance of this
Irrevocable Letter of Credit have been completed.
We hereby engage with the drawers, endorsers, and bona fide holders of drafts,
drawn under and in compliance with the terms of this Credit, that same shall be
honored upon presentation to the drawer. This Credit must accompany any draft
which exhausts the Credit and must be surrendered concurrently with the
presentation of such draft.
We hereby undertake and engage that all demands made in conformity with this
Credit will be honored upon presentation. If, within ten (10) days of the date
any demand made in conformity with this Credit is presented, we fail to honor
same, we agree to pay all attorneys' fees, court costs, and other expenses
incurred by the City/County of                      in enforcing the terms of
this Credit.
Dated:          , 20        .
   (name of bank)   
   
By      
   (title)
Attest:
         
    (title)
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 6-2. Performance Bond:
SAMPLE
PERFORMANCE BOND
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that          , as
PRINCIPAL,       , as SURETY, and    ,
as ADDITIONAL SURETY, are held and firmly bound unto the City/County of
                                     ,
Illinois, as OBLIGEE, in the sum of    
($ ) lawful money of the United States, for the payment whereof to the Obligee,
the Principal and the Surety, and Additional Surety bind themselves, their
heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, jointly and
severally, firmly to these presents:
SIGNED, SEALED AND DATED, THIS                day of                ,
20        .
WHEREAS, application was made to the Obligee for approval of a project entitled
" ", located in the City/County of                     , Illinois, filed with
the Public Works Director of the City of Rock Island, Illinois, on
                   , 20        , said project may be approved upon certain
conditions, one of which is that a performance bond in the amount of    
($ ), to be filed with the City/County Clerk to guarantee certain improvements
in said project.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CONDITION OF THIS OBLIGATION is such that if the above
named Principal shall within two (2) years from the date hereof will and truly
make and perform the required improvements and construction of public
improvements in and adjacent to said project in accordance with the
specifications of the City of Rock Island and the Storm Water Regulations of
the City of Rock Island, then this obligation to be void; otherwise to remain
in full force and effect.
It is hereby understood and agreed that in the event that any required
improvements have not been installed as provided aforesaid within the term of
this Performance Bond, the City Council of the City of Rock Island may
thereupon declare this bond to be in default and collect the sum remaining
payable thereunder and upon receipt of the proceeds thereof, the City of Rock
Island shall install such improvements as are covered by this bond and
commensurate with the extent of development that has taken place in said
project but not exceeding the amount of such proceeds.
    Principal
By:       Principal
    Surety
By:                   
Attorney in Fact
Additional Surety
Approved as to Form:            
By:                
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
Sec. 6-3. Covenant For Storm Water Detention Basin:
Covenant To Be Included In Subdivision Covenants
Storm Water Detention Basin
 
A storm water detention basin has been constructed within the subdivision, in
accordance with the requirements of the municipal storm water ordinance, and is
so designated as "Detention Basin" on subdivision plat. The detention basin
shall provide for the temporary detention of storm water runoff from the
subdivision to meet release rates as required by the municipality.
The real estate upon which the detention basin is located, designated as Outlot
A on the Plat, shall be deeded from the Developer to the Homeowner's
Association upon the sale of 75% of the lots within the Subdivision.
The Developer as owner, and subsequent to the conveyance of title, the
Homeowners Association as owner, shall be responsible for the following:
a. An annual report on the detention basin condition, using the checklist,
designated below, shall be submitted to the Public Works Director.
b. At five (5) year intervals, the basin shall be inspected by a professional
engineer registered in the State of Illinois. A report of this inspection shall
be submitted to the Public Works Director within sixty (60) days of the
inspection. The inspection shall include an evaluation of the checklist items
in the checklist below. An annual report is not required the year the five-year
report is due.
c. The Developer, as owner, shall notify the Homeowners Association of its
maintenance responsibilities and transfer basin maintenance records to the
Homeowners Association.
Each owner of an improved lot within the Subdivision shall be assessed by the
Homeowners Association for the cost of maintaining the Detention Basin and for
the cost of complying with the requirements of these covenants and the
requirements of the municipality. The Declaration regarding the establishment
of a Homeowners Association and the procedures for the assessment and
collection of dues for the cost of maintaining the detention basin shall be
filed and recorded by the Developer as a separate document.
DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE AND PROTECTIVE COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS REGARDING
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION FOR THE STORM WATER DETENTION
BASIN SYSTEM AS LOCATED WITHIN                                         
Dated                  
            
Filed                     
            
To
The Public
This Declaration, made on the date hereinafter set forth by
                                          , hereinafter referred to as
"Declarant".
WITNESSETH:
Whereas, Declarant is the owner of certain property in the City of
                  , Rock Island County, Illinois, which is more particularly
described as:
   
               
NOW, THEREFORE, Declarant hereby declares that all of the properties described
above shall be held, sold and conveyed subject to the following easements,
restrictions, covenants and conditions, all of which are for the purpose of
enhancing and protecting the value, desirability and attractiveness of the real
property, and for the purpose of complying with storm water retention
requirements of the City of                            . These covenants,
restrictions and conditions shall run with the real property and shall be
binding on all parties having or acquiring any right, title or interest in the
described property or any part thereof, and shall inure to the benefit of each
owner thereof.
 
ARTICLE I.
DEFINITIONS
1. "Association" shall mean and refer to Homeowners Association of
                                   , Inc., an Illinois nonprofit corporation,
its successors and assigns.
2. "Properties" shall mean and refer to that certain real property hereinbefore
described, more particularly described as: Lots               through
               of                              , City of                      ,
Illinois, and such additions thereto as may hereafter be brought within the
jurisdiction of the Association.
3. "Lot" shall mean and refer to any plot of land shown upon any recorded
subdivision map or plat of the properties.
4. "Member" shall mean and refer to every person or entity who hold membership
in the association.
5. "Owner" shall mean and refer to the record owner, whether one or more
persons or entities, of a fee simple title to any lot which is a part of the
Properties, including contract sellers, but excluding those having such
interest merely as security for the performance of an obligation.
6. "Declarant" shall mean and refer to                                       ,
to successors and assigns, if such successors or assigns should acquire more
than one undeveloped lot from the Declarant for the purpose of Development.
7. "Developer" shall mean the same as "Declarant".
 
ARTICLE II
MEMBERSHIP AND VOTING RIGHTS
Every person or entity who is a record owner of a fee or undivided fee interest
in any Lot which is subject by covenants of record to assessment by the
Association, including contract Sellers, shall be a member of the Association.
The foregoing is not intended to include persons or entities who hold an
interest merely as security for the performance of an obligation. No owner
shall have more than one membership. Membership shall be appurtenant to and may
not be separated from ownership of any lot which is subject to assessment by
the Association. Ownership of such lot shall be the sole qualification for
membership.
 
ARTICLE III
ESCROW FUND FOR MAINTENANCE
The primary source of funds for maintenance of the master storm water detention
system shall be an escrow fund. Declarant shall establish the Escrow Fund at
some local banking institution at such time as the first lot in The Properties
is transferred to an owner other than the Declarant. The Association shall have
the power to expend the escrow fund for maintenance authorized in accordance
with the provisions of Article V.
 
ARTICLE IV
COVENANT FOR MAINTENANCE ASSESSMENT
1. Creation of the lien and Personal Obligation of Assessments. The Declarant,
for each improved Lot owned within the Properties, hereby covenants, and each
Owner of any Lot by acceptance of a Deed therefore, whether or not it shall be
so expressed in such Deed, is deemed to covenant and agree to pay to the
Association: (1) annual assessments or charges, such assessments to be
established and collected from time to time as hereinafter provided. The term
"improved Lot" shall mean any Lot having a building erected thereon and ready
for occupancy as approved by the City of                           , Illinois.
The annual assessments, together with interest, shall be a charge on the land
and shall be a continuing lien upon the property against which each such
assessment is made. Each assessment together with interest, costs and
reasonable attorney's fees for collection, shall also be the personal
obligation of the person or entity who was the owner of such property at the
time the assessment fell due. The personal obligation for delinquent
assessments shall not pass to his successors in title unless expressly assumed
by them.
2. Purpose of Assessments. The assessments levied by the Association shall be
used exclusively to maintain the storm water detention basin system, as
provided for under the Restrictive and Protective Covenants of
                                   . The Board of Directors of the Association
shall establish a budget by January 1st of each year and shall levy an
assessment upon each improved Lot without the Subdivision by February 1st of
each year, payable by the 1st day of May.
3. Notice and Quorum for Any Action Authorized Under Section 3. Written notice
of any meeting called for the purpose of establishing the budget and making the
assessment shall be sent to all members not less than 15 days nor more than 30
days in advance of the meeting. At the first such meeting called, the presence
of Members or of proxies entitled to cast 50% of all votes of each class of
membership shall constitute a quorum. If the required quorum is not present,
another meeting may be called subject to the same notice requirement, and the
required quorum at the subsequent meeting shall be one-half of the required
quorum at the preceding meeting. No such subsequent meeting shall be held more
than 60 days following the preceding meeting.
4. Uniform Rate of Assessment. Annual assessments must be fixed at a uniform
rate for all improved Lots and shall be collected on an annual installment
basis, except as hereinafter provided.
5. Date of Commencement of Annual Assessments; Due Dates. The annual
assessments provided for herein shall commence as to all improved Lots on the
first day of the month following the conveyance of any such improved Lot. The
first annual assessment shall be adjusted according to the number of months
remaining in the calendar year. The Board of Directors of the Association shall
fix the amount of the annual assessment against each lot at least 30 days in
advance of each annual assessment period. Written notice of the annual
assessment shall be sent to every Owner subject thereto. The annual assessment
shall be paid in one annual payment, and the due dates and delinquency dates
shall be uniformly established by the Board of Directors of the Association.
The Association shall, upon demand, and for a reasonable charge, furnish a
certificate signed by an officer of the Association setting forth whether the
assessments on a specified Lot are current or delinquent. Such certificate
shall be conclusive evidence of payment of any assessment therein stated to
have been paid.
6. Effect of Non-payment of Assessments: Remedies of the Association. Any
annual payment not paid within 30 days after the due date shall bear interest
from the date of delinquency at the rate of 10% per annum. The Association may
bring any action at law against the Owner personally obligated to pay the same,
or foreclose the lien against the property by an action in equity. In any such
action, interest, costs and reasonable attorneys fees shall be added to the
amount of the delinquent assessment and collected as part of said judgment. In
the event of such foreclosure, if the Association waives any and all rights to
a deficiency judgment against the Owner, the period for redemption as provided
by the statutes of the State of Illinois shall be reduced to six months from
the date of foreclosure sale. Any lot ultimately acquired by the Association
through Judges Deed after such a foreclosure shall be sold by the Association
within a reasonable time either at public or private sale, and any surplus
remaining after the payment of assessments, interest, costs and attorney's fees
shall be paid over to the former Owner of said Lot. No Owner may waiver or
otherwise escape liability for the assessments provided for herein by non-use
of the Detention Basin or by abandonment of his Lot.
7. Subordination of the Lien to Mortgages. The lien of the assessments provided
for herein shall be subordinate to the lien of any first mortgage placed upon
any Lot. Sale or transfer of any Lot shall not affect the assessment lien.
However, the sale or transfer of any lot pursuant to Mortgage foreclosure or
any assessments as to payments which became due prior to such sale or transfer,
provided that such sale or transfer shall not extinguish the personal
obligation of the prior Owner or his heirs, successors or assigns, for payment
of such assessment. No sale or transfer shall relieve such Lot from liability
for any assessments thereafter becoming due or from the lien thereof.
 
ARTICLE V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. Enforcement. The Association, or any Owner shall have the right to enforce
by any proceeding at law or in equity all restrictions, conditions, covenants
or reservations now or hereafter imposed by the provisions of this Declaration.
The Association shall have the sole right to enforce, by proceedings at law or
in equity, the liens and charges now or hereafter imposed by the provisions of
this Declaration. Failure by the Association or by any Owner to enforce any
covenant or restriction herein contained shall in no event be deemed a waiver
of the right to do so thereafter.
2. Severability. Invalidation of any one of these covenants or restrictions by
judgment or Court Order shall in no wise affect any other provisions which
shall remain in full force and effect.
3. Duration. The covenants and restrictions of this Declaration shall run with
and bind the land, for a term of 21 years from the date this Declaration is
recorded, after which time they shall be automatically extended for successive
periods of 10 years each.
4. Amendment. This Declaration may be amended during the first 21 years period
by an instrument signed by not less than 75% of the Lot owners and thereafter
by an instrument signed by not less than 65% of the Lot Owners, provided,
however, that no such amendment shall be valid or effective until is has been,
and a certified copy of said resolution, and a certified copy of the amendment
adopted by the Lot Owners, having both been recorded in the office of the
Recorder of Rock Island, Illinois.
By:    
OWNER AND DECLARANT
By:    
OWNER AND DECLARANT
(Ord. 33-2004, § 1, 3-22-2004)
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table gives the location within the Code of those ordinances adopted since
the 1963 Code, which are included herein. Ordinances adopted prior to such date
were incorporated into the 1963 Code, a table of which immediately precedes
this table. Ordinances not listed herein have been omitted as repealed,
superseded or not of a general and permanent nature.
Adoption Date Section Section This Code
Adoption Date Section        Section This Code
6-14-60                     App. A, Art. I
6-27-63       1, 2           4-27
6-10-63       1              2-121
8-12-63       1              6-38
8-12-63       1              12-2
9-23-63       1              15-24
11-18-63      1              4-81
11-26-63      1              2-32
11-26-63      1              16-85
2-13-64       1              2-122
3-19-64       1              12-2
4- 9-64       1              8-436
                           8-437
6- 7-64       1              2-121
                           2-122
6-14-64       1              2-121
5-14-64       1              9-63
9- 3-64       1              2-302
9- 3-64       1              13-76
12- 3-64      1              2-302
12-10-64      1              9-63
1-28-66       1              6-38
2-11-66       1              8431
             2              8434
2-18-65       1              2-32
6-24-65       1              3-2
6-14-65       1              11-51-11-55
6-28-66       1              2-122
6-28-66       1              2-201
7-12-66       1              2-302
7-12-65       1              3-11
8-23-65       1              3-11
8-23-65       1              9-62
11- 8-66                    4-4
11- 8-65      1              4-24
11- 8-65      1              9-62
11-15-65      1              44
12- 6-65      1              8407
1-24-66       1              34
2- 7-66       1              6-17
6-20-66       1              2-121
                           2-122
6-20-66       1              34
             2              3-7
10-24-66      1              11-16
             2              11-17
11-14-66      1              34
12-12-66      1              2-302
12-12-66      1              2-302
12-17-66      1              2-122
12-19-66      1 Rpld.        11-31-11-33
2- 6-67       1              11-1
2-13-67       1              2-271
2-13-67       1-4            App. C, Art, I
2-13-67       1-4            App. C, Art. II
2-20-67       1              34
2-20-67       1              4-3
4-3-67        1              9-31
4-7-67        1,2            2-11
6-8-67        1              10-51
6-5-67        1              8-97
6-9-67        1              3-11
6-26-67       1              2-122
7-10-67       1              2-121
7-10-67       1              13-121
             2              13-122
7-14-67       1-3            15-3
7-18-67       1-3            15-2
7-18-67       1-3            15-3
8-9-67        1              11-1
8-28-67       1              2-122
8-28-67       1              4-27
8-28-67       1              1665
9-18-67       1              11-1
10-9-67       1              2-258
             2              2-257
             3              2-256
10-16-67      1              2-121
10-16-67      1              16-92
11-20-67      1              2-257
1-15-68       1              2-122
1-15-68       1              8-97
1-15-68                     11-51
2-26-68       1              3-11
4-8-68        1-3            15-3
5-6-68        1              4-62
6-17-68       1              2-122
6-24-68       1              2-121
8-26-68       1              1640
8-26-68       1              16-85
9-16-68       1              16-85
10-21-68      1              2-143
10-21-68      1              4-3
11-18-68      1              2-121
11-18-68      1              34
12-10-68      1              2-302
1-13-69       1              4-1
1-13-69       Pt. I, § 5    4-21
                           4-25
             Pt. I, § 6    4-26
             Pt. I, § 12   4-21
             Pt. II         4-23
2-3-69        1              13-137
2-24-69       1              2-121
4-7-69        1              2-122
5- 5-69       1              11-1
6-16-69       1              2-122
7-14-69       1              2-121
8-25-69       1              15-3
10- 6-69      1              16-40
10- 6-69      1              16-85
10-13-69      1              16-83
2-23-70       1              2-234
3- 3-70       1,2            15-24
3-16-70       1              15-24
4-27-70       1              12-2
4-27-70       1              13-138
             2              13-139
7-13-70       1              2-122
8-10-70       1              5-41
             2              544
             3              548
             4              547
             5              546
             6              545
             7              542
             9              543
8-10-70       1              12-2
9-21-70       1              34
9-28-70       1              8-177–8-196
             l(a– h)      8-176
10-12-70      1              8-399
10-12-70      1              12-2
12-14-70      1              10-23
12-21-70      1              10-9
3- 1-71       1              16-94
3- 8-71       1,2            2-257
5-10-71       1 Rpld.        11-31–11-33
5-17-71       1              3-4
5-24-71                     4-1
6-28-71       1              13-116
7-12-71       1              2-122
7-12-71       1              34
7-26-71       1              9-63
8- 9-71       1              2-286
8-30-71                     9-37
10-11-71      1              4-23
11-16-71      1              3-11
12-13-71      1–3          4-3
1-24-72       1              4-3
2-14-72       1              3-5
3-13-72       1              1640
3-13-72       1              16-85
4- 3-72       1              448
4- 3-72       1              16-94
4-10-72       1              8-141
             2              8-114
6-26-72       1              2-121
                           2-122
10-23-72      1              2-121
12- 4-72      1              13-116
12-11-72      1              8407
1-22-73       1              2-121
1-22-73       1              3-4
2-5-73        1              11-33
6-25-73       1              2-121
                           2-122
6-25-73       1              8-114
9-24-73       1              3-11
10-1-73       1              12-2
10-8-73                     6-17
12-3-73       1              7-111
                           7-113–7-120
                           7-136–7-139
                           7-142–7-144
                           7-156–7-164
1-14-74       1              2-216–2-222
1-21-74       1              4-3
1-21-74       1–3          8407
2-4-74        1              1647
2-25-74       1              4-2
3-18-74       1–3          11-16
5-20-74       1              2-122
5-20-74       1              2-234
6-10-74       1              2-121
7-8-74        1              4-1
7-8-74        1              940
9-16-74                     16-92
             1              16-93
10-14-74      1,2            154
12-23-74      1              4-23
12-23-74      1              940
1-20-75       1–3          11-18
2- 3-75       1              2-123
             2              2-124
3-10-75       1              2-124
3-17-75       1              7-160
4-28-75       1              2-121
5-19-75       1              7-161
5-19-75       1              9-32
                           9-63
5-26-75       1              1640
5-26-75       1              16-85
6-23-75       1              2-271
             2,3            2-272
6-23-75       1              8-10
8-11-75       1              8407
10-13-75      1              8-6
11-3-75       1              8-6
11-3-75       1              10-50
11-10-75      1              8-6
11-17-75      1              16-26
12-8-75       1              16-26
12-15-75      1              9-32
12-15-75      1              9-62
                           9-63
12-15-75      1              1640
12-15-75      1              16-85
1-5-76        1              8-97
1-26-76       1              9-37
2-23-76                     8-8
2-23-76       1              3-4
             3              3-4
2-23-76       1.2            4-4
2-23-76       1              4-53
2-23-76       1              8-140
2-23-76       1              8-273
2-23-76       1              8-358
2-23-76       1              8-397
             2              8-399
2-23-76       1              9-10
2-23-76       1              15-24
2-27-76       2              3-3
3- 1-76       1              15-21
3-15-76       1              4-3, 4-4
3-15-76       1              4-26
4- 5-76       1              3-4
             3              3-4
4-12-76       1-3            13-71
             4              13-76
5- 3-76       1              2-35
5-17-76                     4-3
5-17-76       1              44
5-17-76                     4-26
6- 7-76       1              14-51
             2              14-56
             3              14-52
             4              14-53
             5              14-54
             6              14-55
6-21-76       1              2-143
7-12-76       1              6-38
7-12-76       1              12-2
7-12-76       1              14-20
7-12-76       1              16-68
             2              16-66
             3              16-67
7-26-76       1              14-54
10- 4-76                    App. A(note)
10-18-76      1              8-271
10-25-76      1              14-20
11-14-76      1              16-26
11-22-76      1              2-51
11-22-76      1              2-86
                           2-87
                           2-101
11-22-76      1              2-122
11-22-76      1              2-142-2-154
12- 6-76      1              2-10
12- 6-76      1              10-53
12- 6-76      1              8-198
12-27-76      1              3-4
1-17-77       1              8-292-8-301
                           8-316-8-322
                           8-336-8-339
1-17-77       1              10-57
1-17-77       l(a-i)         8-291
2- 7-77       1              2-121
2-14-77       1              2-121
             2              2-5
                           2-68(13)
2-21-77       1              10-86
             2              10-88
             3              10-87
             4              10-89
4-26-77       1              2-121
5- 2-77       1              9-37
6-27-77       1              16-40
6-27-77       1              16-85
9-12-77                     8-407
10-10-77      1              6-40
10-24-77      1              15-24
11- 7-77      1              7-160
             2              7-161
12-19-77      Art. I         8-223
             Art. II, H A-K 8-221
             Art. Ill, § A 2-241
             Art. Ill, § B 8-242
                           8-243
                           8-248
                           8-249
                           8-250
                           8-251
             Art. Ill, § C 8-244
                           8-246
             Art. Ill, § D 8-245
                           8-247
             Art. ID, 5 E   8-224
                           8-227
             Art. IV        8-226
             Art. V         8-226
             Art. VI        8-222
1- 9-78       1              9-32
             2              9-33
2-13-78       1              2-121
3-13-78       1              8-242
3-27-78       1              13-116
4-17-78       1              2-122
6- 5-78       1-3            11-16
6-26-78       1              2-122
6-26-78       1              2-286
6-26-78       1              4-3
6-26-78       1              4-24
6-26-78       1.2            11-18
7-10-78       1              2-121
8-14-78       1              9-10
9-25-78       1              2-302
9-26-78       1              9-37
10- 2-78      1              8-26
             2              8-29
             3(A-V)         8-27
             4              8-30
             5              8-31
             6              8-32
             7              8-33
             8              8-34
             9              8-51
             10             8-52
             11             8-54
             12             8-55
             13             8-63
             14             8-57
             15             8-53
             16             8-55
                           8-58
                           8-59
             17             8-58
             18,19          8-60
             20             8-62
             21-23          8-61
             24             8-35
             25             8-36
             26             8-56
             27             8-37
             28             8-38
             32             8-28
11- -78       Pt. I, § 5    4-25
11- 2-78      1              4-23
11-13-78      2-4            8-197
             1              App. A, Art. III
             2              App. A, Art. XII, 12.14
             3              App. A, Art. XIII, 13.1
             4              App. A, Art. XIII, 13.12
             5              App. A, Art. XIV, 14.1
             6              App. A, Art. XIV, 14.12
11-20-78      1              2-155
11-20-78      1              2-302
11-20-78      1              15-24
11-27-78                    4-23
11-27-78      Pt. I, § 5    4-21
                           4-22
                           4-22
             Pt. I, § 6    4-26
             Pt. I, § 7    4-22
             Pt. I, § 12   4-21
12-13-78      1              12-3
1-15-79       1              8-407
1-22-79       1,2            13-137
2-12-79                     6-17
2-12-79       1              App. A, Art XXIII, 24.3
2-19-79       1              9-26
2-19-79       1              942
2-19-79       1              15-2
             2              15-3
5-21-79       1              8-242
5-21-79       1              8-407
6-25-79       1              2-121
7-23-79       1              3-15
7-26-79       1              16-40
7-26-79       1              16-85
8-27-79       1              16-40
8-27-79       1              16-85
9-10-79       1              App. A, Art. V, 5.12
10- 1-79      1              3-4
12-17-79      1              2-122
12-17-79      1              3-11
12-17-79                    9-41
12-17-79      4              9-26
1- 7-80       1              2-231-2-239
                           2-241-2-243
1- 7-80       1              10-49
1- 7-80       1              11-73
             2              11-74
             3(a-t)         11-71
             4              11-75
                           11-76
                           11-77
                           11-78
                           11-79
             5              11-80
                           11-81
             6              11-82
                           11-83
                           11-84
                           11-85
             7              11-86
                           11-87
1-14-80       8              11-72
             1              3-2
                           3-11
3-10-80       1              App. A, Art. III
             2              App. A, Art. VHI, 8.3f
             3              App. A, Art. XX, 20.1b
             4              App. A, Art. XXI, 21.3
3-17-80       1              2-122
4- 7-80       1              3-3
                           3-4
                           3-6
                           3-7
4-14-80       1              2-121
4-14-80       1              App. A, Art. VI, 6.1
5-12-80       1              9-53
5-19-80       1              10-51
6- 2-80       1              3-4
6- 2-80       1              3-11
6- 2-80       1              8-98
6-16-80       1              2-121
6-16-80       1              5-29
6-23-80       1              5-17
             2              5-18
             3              5-19
             4              5-20
             5              5-21
             6              5-22
             7              5-23
             8              5-24
             9              5-25
             10             5-26
             11             5-27
             12             5-28
7-14-80       1              4-1
8-11-80       1              2-122
8-11-80       1              10-69
8-11-80       1              13-137
             2              13-138
             3              13-140
             4              13-141
9- 8-80       1              2-32
9-16-80       1              2-302
9-22-80       1–4          9-26
9-22-80       1              9-60
             2,3            9-63
             4              9-82
                           9-83
             4(a–g)       9-81
10-8-80                     App. A, Art. VT, 6.4
10-8-80                     App. A, Art. VII, 7.01
10-8-80                     App. A, Art. XXI, 21.lc
10-8-80                     App. A, Art. XXIII, 23.7k
10-8-80                     App. A, Art. XXIII, 23.10a
10-8-80                     App. A, Art. XXIII, 23.11a
10-8-80                     App. A, Art. XXIII, 23.12b
10-27-80      1              App. A, Art. VI, 6.4
             2              App. A, Art. XXIII, 23.7k
             3              App. A, Art. XXIII, 23.10a
             4              App. A, Art, XXIII, 23.11a
             5              App. A, Art. XXIII, 23.12b
10-27-80      2              App. A, Art. VII, 7.0
             3              App. A, Art. XXI, 21.1c
11-24-80      4              App. A, Art. XXII
1-12-81       1              12-3
1-12-81       1              2-122
1-12-81       1              2-239
1-12-81       2              2-236
1-12-81       3              2-240
1-19-81       1              10-32
1-26-81       1              10-9
1-26-81       2              10-20
2-9-81        3              10-27
2-9-81        1              7-112
                           10-3
                           10-5
                           10-13
                           10-15
                           10-17
                           10-25
                           10-26
             2              14-20
             3              7-112
                           9-66
                           9-68
                           10-19
                           10-29
                           10-31
             4              10-54
             5              6-46
                           7-112
                           10-11
                           10-40
                           10-55
             6              10-34
                           10-38
                           10-48
                           10-56
                           10-57
             8              10-58
             9              10-59
             10             10-60
             11             10-9
1-19-81       1, 2           9-82
1-26-81       1 Rpld.        11-31
             2 Rpld.        11-32
1-26-81       1              15.2– 15.4
2-9-81        1              8-407
2-9-81        1              13-76
2-9-81        1              13-116
3-9-81        1              13-116
3-9-81        1              16-94
4-6-81        1              2-9
4-27-81       1–27         App. C, Art. I
4-20-81       1              2-121
6-1-81        1              2-15
             2              2-157
             3              2-158
6-1-81        1              16-40
6- 1-81       1              16-85
6-22-81       1              15-24
6-29-81       1              4-26
6-29-81       1              App, A, Art. XX, 20.1e
             2              App. A, Art. XXI, 21.1b
             3              App. A, Art. XXI, 21.1d(4)
             4              App. A, Art. XXI, 21.1
7-13-81       1              6-18
             2              6-19
             3              6-20
7-27-81       1,2            4-23
8-10-81       1              8-400
8-24-81       2              3-12
9-28-81       1              2-32
9-28-81       1              2-121
10-12-81      1              2-122
10-12-81      1              8-433
1- 4-82       1 - 3          15-5
1- 4-82       1 - 3          15-6
1- 4-82       1              1640
             2              1645
1- 4-82       1              16-85
1-11-82       1              3-10
                           3-11
                           10-9
                           10-22
                           10-32
             2              10-46
                           10-52
                           10-67
             3              10-27
             4              3-2
                           3-11
1-11-82       1              10-61-10-66
2- 8-82       1              14-20
2- 8-82       1              15-24
2-15-82       1              3-4
2-22-82       1              15-24
3-15-82       I              2-171
             II             2-172
             III            2-173
             IV             2-174
             V              2-175
             VI             2-176
             VII            2-177
             VIII           2-178
             IX             2-179
3-15-82       1              16-42
7-12-82       1              9-82
9-27-82                     App. A, Art. XV, 15.2
                            
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Section Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Section               Section this Code
82-04            4-26-82       1                     10-68
82-14            6-28-82       1                     8-99
82-23            8- 9-82       1                     8-32
                             2                     8-55
                             4                     8-28
82-25            9-13-82       1                     7-111
                                                  7-117
82-28            9-27-82       1(Art. I, § 1)       7-1
                             1(Art. I, § 2)       7-2
                             1(Art. II, § 1)      7-21
                             1(Art. II, § 2)      7-22
                             1(Art. Ill, §         
                             1(A-G))               13-21
                             1(Art. III, § 2)     13-22
                             1(Art. III, § 3)     13-24
                             1(Art. III, § 4)     13-25
                             (Art. III, § 5)      13-26-13-30
                             l(Art. Ill, § 6)     13-34-13-36
                             1(Art. III, § 7)     13-27
                                                  13-33
                             1(Art. III, § 8)     13-31
                             1(Art. Ill, § 9)     13-32
                             1(Art. III, § 10)    13-37
                             1(Art. III, § 11)    13-23
                             1(Art. IV,            7-36
                             § 1(A-D))            7-37
                             1(Art. IV, § 2)      7-38
                             1(Art. TV, § 3)      7-38
                             1(Art. IV, § 4)      7-39
                             1(Art. IV, § 5)      7-40
                             1(Art. V, § 1(1-131))7-56
                             1(Art. V, § 1(A-L))  7-81
                             1(Art. V, § 2)       7-59
                             1(Art. V, § 3)       7-60
                                                  7-83
                                                  7-84
                             1(Art. V, § 4)       7-61
                                                  7-85
                             1(Art. V, § 5)       7-62
                                                  7-86
                             1(Art. V, § 6)       7-63
                                                  7-87
                             1(Art. V, § 7)       7-58
                                                  7-88
                             1(Art. V, § 8)       7-57
                                                  7-89
                             1(Art. V, § 9)       7-90
                             1(Art. V, § 10)      7-91
                             1(Art. V, § 11)      7-92
                             1(Art. V, § 12)      7-93
                             1(Art. V, § 13)      7-82
82-31            9-27-82       1                     2-122
82-32            9-27-82       1                     2-159
82-39            10-11-82      1                     11-19
82-41            10-25-82      1(1-3)                7-111
                                                   
 
 
Ordinance NumberAdoption DateSection  Section This Code
Ordinance NumberAdoption DateSection         Section This Code
82-41            10-25-82      1(1)            7-115–7-119
                             1(2)            7-120
                                            7-136–7-144
                                            7-156
                                            7-158–7-162
                                            7-164
                             1(4)            7-112–7-114
                                            7-157
                                            7-163
82-44            10-25-82      1               8-416
                             2               8-421
                             3               8-426
                             4               8-418
                             5               8-419
                             6               8-421
                             7,8             8-426
                             9               8-422
                             10              8-423
                             11              8-424
                             12              8-425
                             13              8-427
                             14              8-417
82-45            11-8-82       1               2-7
                             2               2-8
82-48            11-22-82      1–3           15-37–15-39
                             4               15-36
                             6–9           15-40–15-43
82-58            12-20-82      1–4           6-38.1
82-59            12-20-82      1               2-122(a)
82-63            1-10-83       1               8-99
82-65            1-17-83       101–103       7-181–7-183
                             201             7-186
                             202             7-190
                             203             7-187
                             204             7-191
                             301–303       7-188
                             401             7-185
                             501–504       7-201
                             601–606       7-202
                             701–703       7-203
                             801             7-204
                             901             7-205
                             1001            7-189
                             1101            7-214
                             1102            7-215(a)
                             1103            7-215(b),(c)
                             1201–120      7-216–7-219
                             1301–130      7-220
                             1401–140      7-211–7-213
                             1501            7-184
82-66            1-17-83       101–103       4-111
                             201–203       4-114
                             301–303       4-115
                             401             4-112
                             501             4-116
                             601             4-117(a)–(e)
                             602             4-117(f)
                             603             4-118
                             701             4-119(a)–(c)
                             702–704       4-119(d)–(f)
                             801–805       4-120
                             901–903       4-121
                             1001            4-122
                             1101            4-113
82-68            1-24-83       1               8-444
82-73            2-28-83       1               8-453
                             2               8-456
82-74            2-28-83       1               8-424(b)
82-75            3-14-83       1               2-234
                             2               2-241
82-79            3-14-83       1–3           9-43
82-85            3-21-83       1               2-122(a)
82-87            3-28-83       1               4-23
83-5             4-18-83       Arts. I–      App. B
83-7             5-2-83        1               7-188(b)
83-12            5-16-83       1               2-32
83-13            5-23-83       1               9-43(a)
83-17            5-23-83       1,2       Rpld.  2-5, 2-6
83-19            6-13-83       1               9-111
                             2(a)            9-112
                             2(b)            9-115
                             2(d),(e)        9-113, 9-114
                             2(f)            9-116
83-23            7-11-83       1,2             11-4
83-25            7-11-83       1               13-100
83-33            8-22-83       1               3-4(e)
83-35            8-22-83       1–3           5-41–5-43
                             4               5-45
                             5               5-44
                             6               5-46
83-36            9-12-83       1               6-16
                             2               6-19
                             3               6-17
                             4–7           6-20–6-22
                             8               6-18
83-49            12-19-83      1,2             8-407
83-56            2-6-84        1               2-302
83-57            2-6-84        1               3-2
                                            3-10
                                            3-11(c)
                                            6-46
                                            7-112
                                            8-28
(missing pages)                              16-400–16-406
                                            16-500–16-507
                                            16-600, 16-601
                                      Rpld   16-94
85-11            5-13-85       1             13-38
85-13            6-3-85        1             15-24
                             2             15-30
85-18            6-17-85       1–4           2-160
86-19            6-24-85       1         Rpld   8-404(b)(l)a
                             2               8-404(b)(1)b
85-19.1          7-8-85        1            7-160(5)
85-30            8-26-85       1            7-160(5)
                             2         Rpld   7-161(1)–(4)
                                      Added  7-161(1)–(3)
85-49            12-16-85      1            App. A, Art. III
                             2            App. A, § 23.8a
85-50            12-16-85      1            6-60–6-63
85-52            12-23-85      1               6-19(b)
                                            6-38(b)
86-03            2-24-86       1               16-301(d)(12), (15), (17)
86-04            2-24-86       1            11-121
86-05            2-24-86       1            11-111(f)(1)
                             2            11-112(f)(1)
86-10            3-24-86       1               3-4(f)
86-14            4-14-86       1            3-4(e)
86-19            4-28-86       1               11-121
86-20            5-5-86        1            3-4(f)
86-21            5-5-86        1               7-145
86-23            5-12-86       1            App. A, § 5.19
86-25            5-12-86       1               2-122(a)
86-30            6-16-86       1               2-122(a)
86-40            8-11-86       1–5           2-160
86-47            9-15-86       1               7-221–7-230
86-48            9-15-86       1            15-37(2), (3)
86-49            9-15-86       1            7-203(a)(5)
86-54            10-27-86      1            App. A, § 23.8a
86-56            11-3-86       1               7-111,7-114(f),7-115,7-117(c),7-156(a), (b)
86-57            11-17-86      1–4           11-137
86-58            11-24-86      1, 2            11-136
86-65            12-8-86       1               2-122(a)
86-68            12-15-86      1               9-44
86-69            12-15-86      1         Rpld   9-52, 9-54, 9-61
                                      Added  9-54
                                      Amd.   9-69
86-70            12-15-86      1         Rpld   9-81–9-83
                                      Added  9-81–9-88, 9-90–9-96
87-10            2-2-87     1               11-136(b)(8)
87-21            3-23-87       1               15-60–15-66
87-22            3-23-87       1         Rpld   2-3, 2-4, 2-7, 2-8
                             2               2-13–2-16
                             3         Rpld   2-286, 2-287
                             4            8-243
                             5            Ch. 11, Art. II(tit)
                             6               11-18,11-19
                             7               Ch. 11, Art. II, Div. 2(tit)
                             8,9       Rpld   11-31, 11-32
                             10        Rpld   11-33
                             11              13-2
                             12        Rpld   13-3
                             13              1376(c)
                             14              16-21
                             15              16-22, 16-23, 16-25-16-27, 1631(a), (d)-(g), 16-34, 1639(a), 1646(b), (e), 16-
                                                47,    1648(a), 16-52 16-54–16-56, 16-58, 16-59, 16 63(b), (f), 16-64
                             16              16-81
                             17        Rpld   16-82
                             18              16-86(a), (b)(1), (3), (c)
                             19              13-23
                             20              13-24(f), (h), 13-27, 13-31(b), (c), 13-32,    13-33(1), (3)
                                                7-59(c), 7-88–7-90, 7-92, 8-185, 8-186,    8-188, 8191(d), 8-436, 8-437(a)(3),
                             21              (6), (c), 13-71(a), (e), (f), 13-72(a), 13-73, 13-74, 12-92(a), (c), 13-93(b),
                                                13-94, 13-97, 13-98,    13-121, 13-140, 16-56, 16-63(a), (c), (e), 16-65(2)
                                                7-21, 7-22(a)(1), (b)(2),    (c)(1), 7-58(a), 7-60(a), (a)(1), (3)a.–c., 7-81,
                             22              7-83, 7-84, 7-85(a), (b), (d), (g), 7-86(a), (b), (d) (e), 7-185, 7-186, 7-189
                                                (1)l., o., 7-221(b)(2), 7-223,    7-226, 7-228(a), (b), 7-229(a), (c)
                             23        Rpld   7-36-7-40
                             24              7-59(a)(2)
                             25              7-85(c)
                             26              10-36
87-23            3-23-1987     1,2             2-122(a)
87-25            3-23-1987     1               11-84(1)–(4)
                             2         Rpld   11-83(1)b
                             3               11-71
                             4               11-71, 11-85
                             5–9           11-71
                             10              11-82(3)a
87-29            3-23-1987     1,2             2-122(a)
87-30            4-6-1987      1         Rpld   15-21–15-30
87-31            4-6-1987      1               4-1
87-32            4-6-1987      1               4-4
87-33            4-6-1987      1               4-26(d)
87-34            4-6-1987      1               9-42
                             2               8-97
                             3               4-25(c)
                             4               8-400
                             5               8-432(a)
                             6               8-433(a)
                             7         Rpld   8-434
                             8               8-55(c)
                             9               8-55(a)(1)
                             10–12         7-161(1)–(3)
                             13              7-160(4),(5)
                             14              7-165
                             15              8-6(1)
                             16              App. A, §23.13c
                             17              13-71(d)
                             18              13-92(a)
87-35            4-6-1987      1               4-3
87-38            4-13-1987     1               13-38(a)(2)
                             2,3             13-38(b)
                             4               13-38(d),(e)
87-39            4-13-1987     1–3           2-228–2-290
87-41            4-20-1987     1               9-3
87-42            4-27-1987     1               9-26
                             2               9-89, 9-89.1
87-46            4-27-1987     1               2-240
87-47            4-27-1987     1,2             13-38(a)(2)
                             3,4             13-38(b)
                             5               13-38(d),(e)
87-48            5-18-1987     1               10-39
                             2               10-40.1(a)
87-52            5-18-1987     1               4-25(c)
87-53            5-18-1987     1               9-97–9-100
87-55            6-1-1987      1               2-271(a)
87-56            6-1-1987      1               2-257(a)
87-62            7-13-1987     1               4-47
                             2–4           4-97(a)–(c)
                             5               4-97(g)
                             6               4-98(f)
                             7               4-98(h)
                             8               4-98(n)
                             9               4-96(a)(6)
                             10        Rpld   4-49(1),(2)
                                      Added  4-49(1)–(4)
                             11,12           4-63(1),(2)
87-65            8-10-1987     1               14-20(a)(24),( 25)
87-66            8-10-1987     1–3           2-122(a)
87-81            10-5-1987     1               7-111
                             2               7-117
                             3               7-121
87-82            10-5-1987     1               8-86
87-90.1          10-19-1987    1–10          4-136–4-145
87-91            10-12-1987    1,2             8-466, 8-467
88.03            1-4-1988      1               14-20(a)(26)
88-05            1-18-1988     1               2-122
88-18            4-4-1988      1               13-71–13-76
                                      Added  13-77
88-25.2          5-2-1988      1               16-201
                             2               16-301(d)(11)
88-28.1          5-23-1988     1               13-23
                             2         Rpld   13-32
                             3               13-38(b)
88-32            6-20-1988     1               App. A, §7.0
                             2               App. A, §23.15
88-35            6-20-1988     1               App. A, Art. III
                             2               App. A, §9.9e
                             3               App. A, §12.17A
                             4               App. A, §13.15A
                             5               App. A, §14.15A
                             6               App. A, §16.2i
                             7               App. A, §17.1z
                             8               App. A, §18.1z
                             9               App. A, §19.1s
                             10              App. A, §23.1
88-39            7-11-1988     1               14-22
88-40            7-11-1988     1               4-112
                             2,3             4-121(c),(d)
                             4               4-122(a)
                             5,6             4-122(b)
88-42            7-25-1988     1               16-94
88-46            8-22-1988     1               13-21
88-48            8-22-1988     1               2-239(b)
88-49            8-22-1988     1               2-239(d)
88-57            9-1-1988      1               9-8
88-58            9-26-1988     1,2             App. C, Art. I,
                                            §9(n),(o)
88-63            11-7-1988     1               2-122(a)
88-64            11-7-1988     1               13-40
88-73            12-19-1988    1               8-404(b)(1)a
89-2             1-23-1989     1–6           2-295–2-300
89-3             1-23-1989     1               2-122
89-4             2-6-1989      1               2-122(a)
89-7             2-20-1989     1               2-121
89-11            3-20-1989     1,2             9-34(b)
89-12            3-20-1989     1,2             App. A, Art. III
                             3               App. A, §§9.6a,
                                            10.6a, 11.7a, 12.7a,
                                            13.6a, 14.7a, 15.3
89-14            3-27-1989     1               8-2
89-16            4-3-1989      1               4-25(b), 7-83, 8-2
89-18            4-3-1989      1               2-122(a)
89-20            4-3-1989      1               2-122(a)
89-36            6-26-1989     1               8-242(a)
89-37            7-10-1989     1               2-122(a)
89-45            8-28-1989     1               6-16
                             2               6-19(b)
                             3               6-17
                             4–8           6-20–6-24
                             9               6-18(a)
89-46            8-28-1989     1               4-1
89-56            9-25-1989     1               4-3
89-61            11-6-1989     1               2-121
89-72            12-4-1989     1               4-143(a)
90-03            2-6-1990      1               2-121
90-08            2-26-1990     1               13-25(b)
90-10            2-26-1990     1               9-93
90-14            3-27-1990     1               4-146
90-15            3-27-1990     1               5-17, 5-19, 5-25,
                                            5-28
90-33            5-14-1990              Rpld   16-81–16-94,
                                            16-100–16-60 1
                                      Added  16-81–16-107 ,
                                            16-200, 16-201,
                                            16-300–16-30 7,
                                            16-400–16-40 6,
                                            16-500–16-50 7,
                                            16-600, 16-601
90-37            5-21-1990              Added  16-57
90-39            6-6-1990      1         Added  7-36–7-50
90-41            6-25-1990     1,2             2-17
90-55            8-13-1990     1               10-21
90-75            10-15-1990    1               7-181
90-82            11-26-1990    1               App. A, Art. III
                             2               App. A, §12.14
                             3               App. A, §13.12
                             4               App. A, §14.12
90-83            11-26-1990    1,2             App. A, §8.4
90-92            12-17-1990    1               App. B
91-12            2-11-1991     1               15-52(a)
91-13            2-11-1991     1               9-42 (2nd ¶)
91-14            2-11-1991     1               8-97
                             2               8-85(b)
                             3               7-140
                             4,5             13-92(a)
                             6               8-8
                             7               8-273
                             8               8-336
                             9               7-85
                             10              8-98(c)
                             11              7-60(a)(2)
                             13              App. A, §23.15i
                             14              8-7
                             15              8-84(b)
                             16              13-38(b)
                             17              8-6(i)
91-15            2-11-1991     1               2-121
91-17            2-18-1991     1               8-35
                             2,3             8-55(a),(b)
                             4               8-63
                             5               8-59(5)
                             6               8-61(a)
91-18            2-25-1991     1               13-25(b)
91-19            2-25-1991     1               15-7(b)
                             2               15-7(c)–(g)
91-24            3-18-1991     1               15-2
91-25            3-18-1991     1               2-122(a)
91-26            3-25-1991     1               9-26
                             2               9-31(c)
91-41            4-15-1991     1–3           App. A, Art. III
91-42            4-15-1991     1         Rpld   App. A, §§11.7a,
                                            12.7a, 12.7b, 13.6a
                                            13.6b, 14.7a, 14.7b
91-44            4-15-1991     1,2             App. A, Art. III
91-45            4-15-1991     1               App. A,
                                            §§4.6a–4.6c
91-46            4-15-1991     1               App. A, §§9.6b,
                                            10.6b, 11.7b, 12.7b,
                                            13.6b, 14.7b, 15.4,
91-47            4-15-1991     1               App. A, §23.1
91-48            4-15-1991     1               4-54(b)
91-49            4-22-1991     1               13-37(11)
91-52            4-22-1991     1               App. A, §§22A.0–
                                            22A.5
91-53            5-6-1991      1,2             13-38(e)
                             3               13-38(d)
91-61            5-13-1991     1               10-50
91-62            5-20-1991     1               2-216
91-72            6-10-1991     1               2-52
91-74            6-17-1991     1               8-35
                             2,3             8-55(a),(b)
                             4               8-63
                             5               8-59(5)
                             6               8-61(a)
91-75            6-17-1991     1               2-288, 2-289
91-80            7-8-1991      1               App. A, §23.1
91-81            7-8-1991      1               App. A, §23.3
                             2               App. A, §23.2c
                             3               App. A, §19.1n
                             4               App. A, §19.1q
                             5               App. A, §22.2d
                             6               App. A, §8.12
                             7               App. A, §23.15h
                             8               App. A, §§23.16,
                                            23.16b–23.16 d,
                                            23.17
91-87            7-22-1991     1               11-138–11-15 4
91-88            7-22-1991     1               App. A, §23.3
                             2               App. A, §19.1n
                             3               App. A, §19.1q
                             4               App. A, §22.2d
                             5               App. A, §8.12
                             6               App. A, §23.15h.1
                             7               App. A, §23.16
91-94            8-26-91       1         Rpld   6-2–6-4
91-107           9-23-91       1               2-17(a)(4)
91-111           10-14-91      1.1–1.5       6-63(a)–(e)
                             1.6             6-63(f)–(n)
91-112           10-14-91      1               3-9(b)(1)
91-131           12-2-91       1               2-52(a)
                             2         Rpld   2-52(b)
                             3         Rnbd   2-52(c) as (b)
91-133           12-2-91       1         Rnbd   10-57(c) as (d)
                             2         Added  10-57(c)
91-134           12-2-91                      10-9(a)
91-135           12-9-91       1               14-20(a)(27)
91-136           12-9-91       1               7-112, 10-5, 10-11,
                                            10-26(b), 10-27,
                                            10-31, 10-32(d),(e),
                                            10-40, 10-48, 10-52,
                                            10-57, 10-59,
                                            10-61–10-66, 10-69
91-137           12-16-91      1               12-6
91-139           12-23-91      1.a             App. A, §11.3
                             1.b             App. A, §11.14
                             1.c             App. A, §12.15
                             1.d             App. A, §13.13
                             1.e             App. A, §14.13
92-01            1-6-92        1               6-16
                             2               6-20–6-23
92-02            1-6-92        1               4-1
92-09            1-20-92       1               App. C, Art. III,
                                            §1(note)
92-12            1-20-92       1               9-26–9-45, 9-51,
                                            9-53–9-60, 9-62–
                                            9-69, 9-81–9-100
92-24            2-3-92        1               2-121
92-28            2-17-92       1               4-49(5),(6)
                             2,3             4-63(1),(2)
                             4               4-63(3),(4)
                             5         Rpld   4-96(a)(6)
                             6               4-98(a)
                             7         Rpld   4-98(n)
92-30            2-24-92       1               9-92(3)g
                             2               9-93(9),(10)
92-31            2-24-92       1               11-136(c)–(e)
92-33            3-16-92       1               2-122(a)
92-34            3-16-92       1               2-122(a)
92-37            3-16-92       1               13-25(b)(2)
92-38            3-16-92       1               8-2
92-47            3-23-92       1               8-84(a)
                             2         Rpld   8-84(c)
92-48            3-23-92       1               8-96
                             2,3             8-97
92-49            3-23-92       1               2-121
92-53            4-6-92        1               2-122(a)
92-64            4-13-92       1               7-181
92-68            4-13-92       1         Rpld   8-221–8-251
                             2         Added  8-221–8-238
92-78            4-27-92       1               9-97.1
92-88            5-18-92       1               4-49(6)
                             2,3             4-70
92-95            6-22-92       1               4-122(d)
92-103           7-13-92       1               3-8(g)
92-112           8-24-92       1               9-31(c)
                             2               9-42
                             3               9-45(g)
                             4               9-87(b)
92-114           8-24-92       1,2             2-302
92-120           9-28-92       1               10-90
92-132           10-26-92      1               10-90(b)
92-140           12-7-92       1               4-146
92-143           12-14-92      1               3-9(a)(4)
92-145           12-14-92      1               2-302
92-149           12-21-92      1,2             7-140, 7-141
                             3               7-146–7-148
                             4               7-156(d)
                             5               7-160(4)
                             6               7-166
93-07            2-1-93        1               2-121
93-08            2-8-93        1               2-68(13),(14)
93-10            2-8-93        1               2-121
93-11            3-1-93        1               9-30
                             2               9-32(A)(15)
                                      Rpld   9-32(b)
93-14            3-15-93       1               App. A, §§9.2, 9.4,
                                            9.8b–9.8d
                             2               App. A, §§10.2,
                                            10.4, 10.11–10.12
                             3               App. A, §§11.2,
                                            11.5, 11.12,
                                            11.15a–11.15 c
                             4               App. A, §§12.2,
                                            12.7c
                             5               App. A, §§13.2,
                                            13.6c
                             6               App. A, §§14.2,
                                            14.7c
                             7               App. A, §§22A.1d
                                            22A.1j
93-15            3-15-93       1               2-122(a)
93-16            3-15-93       1               2-122(a)
93-19            3-23-93       1               2-17(a)(2)
93-27            4-12-93       1               10-23.1
93-31            4-19-93       1               7-140(a)
93-62            6-7-93        1               9-117–9-128
93-65            6-14-93       1               8-35
93-69            7-12-93       1               11-121
93-70            7-12-93       1               Ch. 11, Art.
                                            VI(note)
93-71            7-12-93       1               8-232
93-79            8-9-93        1,2             2-15(b),(c)
93-102           11-15-93      1               8-59(5)
94-05            1-10-94       1               4-97(m)
                             2               4-98(n)
94-13            3-7-94        1               2-121
94-16            3-14-94       1               9-92(3)g
                             2               9-92(7)
                             3               9-93(3)
                             4               9-93(5)a
                             5               9-93(8)
                             6               9-93(9)
                             7               9-94
94-17            3-14-94       1               2-121
94-21            3-21-94       1               2-121
94-29            5-2-94        1               App. A, §6.0
94-37            6-2-94        1               4-147–4-161
94-48            5-23-94       1               8-99(e)
94-49            5-23-94                      2-40–2-43
94-65            7-25-94       1               2-15
94-66            7-25-94       1               8-222
                             2               8-228
                             3               8-231
                             4               8-233
94-69            8-8-94        1               2-122
94-75            9-12-94       1,2             2-52(a),(c)
94-78            9-19-94       1               4-3
94-79            9-19-94       1               4-23
94-84            9-26-94       1–27          App. C, Art. I
94-86            10-10-94      1               2-121
94-106           12-12-94      1               10-90
94-107           12-12-94      1–10          App. C, Art. III
                                            §§1–10
94-108           12-12-94      1–10          App. C, Art. II,
                                            §§1–10
95-14            2-20-95       1               2-122
95-19            3-27-95       1               2-121
95-20            3-13-95       1               6-61
95-24            3-27-95       1               6-63
95-25            3-27-95       1               2-121
95-27            4-10-95       1         Added  9-46
95-31            4-17-95       1               13-25(b)(2)
95-35            5-1-95        1               4-161
95-37            5-16-95                      11-121
95-40            6-5-95        1         Added  4-146.1–4-14 6.7
95-41            6-5-95        1               4-4
95-42            6-5-95        1               4-1
95-43            6-6-95        1               7-41
95-61            8-28-95       1               9-97, 9-98
95-81            9-25-96       1               15-52(a)
95-84            10-9-95       1               9-93, 9-94
96-01            1-8-96        1               App. A., Art. III
96-08            2-5-96        1         Added  9-47
96-17            3-18-96       1               2-121
96-21            3-25-96       1               13-25
96-22            4-8-96        1               10-50
96-30            4-15-96       1               2-121
96-40            6-10-96       1         Rpld   13-37
                             2         Added  Ch.7, Art. IX
                             3         Added  9-43(a1)
                             4         Rpld   13-40
                             5         Added  9-31(a1)
                             6         Added  9-31a
                             7         Added  6-43a
96-41            6-10-96       1               13-21
                             2         Rpld   13-22(c)
                             3         Rpld   13-23
                             4               13-24
                             5               13-25
                             6               13-33
                             7         Rpld   13-34, 13-35, 13-36
                             8         Rpld   13-39
96-50            7-22-96       1,2             9-115, 9-116
96-58            9-9-96        1         Added  Ch. 8, Art. XVII
96-63            9-16-96       1         Added  3-11(q)
96-64            9-16-96       1         Added  9-10(j)
96-65            9-16-96       1         Added  Ch. 10, Art IV
96-66            9-16-96       1         Added  9-11–9-20
96-67            9-16-96       1         Added  Ch. 8. Art. XVIII
96-69            9-23-96                      Ch. 16, Art. IV
96-73            10-7-96       1               4-3
96-75            10-7-96       1         Added  2-300A, 2-300B
96-80            10-28-96      1               4-23
96-82            10-28-96      1         Added  10-90(d)
96-83            10-28-96                     8-497(d)
96-89            11-11-96      1               8-6
96-90            11-11-96      1,2             4-146.2
97-02            1-27-97       1               4-23
97-03            2-3-97        1               8-233
97-04            2-10-97       1               4-147(d)
97-05            2-17-1997     1         Added  13-32
97-20            3-17-1997     1         Added  1-13.1
97-27            4-7-1997      1               2-121
97-30            4-14-1997     1               7-140
97-31            4-14-1997     1         Rpld   Ch. 8, Art. XV,
                                            Div. 1
97-38            5-5-1997      1               9-31
97-50            7-14-1997     1               9-11–9-20
97-51            7-14-1997     1               10-10, 10-11
97-68            7-28-1997     1         Added  Ch. 8, Art. XV,
                                            Div. 1
97-69            7-28-1997     1               9-10
97-74            8-11-1997     1               11-121
97-79            9-15-1997     1               11-121
97-80            9-22-1997     1,2             16-85.7
97-81            10-6-1997     3         Added  Ch. 13, Art. VI
97-92            11-17-1997    1               4-1
97-96            12-8-1997     1         Added  16-95(a)(10),
                                            (11), (12)
98-05            1-19-1998     1               16-301
98-09            1-19-1998     1         Added  7-117.1
98-16            2-16-1998     1         Added  App. A. §9.2a
                                            App. A, §9.3
                                            App. A, §9.8c
                             2         Added  App. A, §10.2
                                            App. A, §10.3
                                            App. A, §10.11a
                             3               App. A, §11.2
                                            App. A, §11.4
                                            App. A, §11.15b
                             4               App. A, §12.2
                                            App. A, §12.4
                             5               App. A, §13.2
                                            App. A, §13.3
                             6               App. A, §14.2
                                            App. A, §14.3
                             7               App. A, §22A.1d
                                            App. A, §22A.1f
98-24            4-13-1998     1         Added  Ch. 10, Art. V
98-31            4-13-1998     1               2-17
98-35            4-20-1998     1               2-121
98-37            5-4-1998      1               Ch. 4, Art. VI
98-57            8-24-1998     1               9-17(g)
98-61            8-24-1998     1               15-36
                                            15-37
                                      Added  15-37.1
                                      Added  15-37.2
                                      Added  15-37.3
                                      Added  15-37.4
                                            15-38, 15-39
                                            15-40, 15-41
                                            15-42, 15-43
                                             
98-62            8-24-1998     1         Added  Ch. 15, Art. VI
98-64            9-14-1998     1               2-15(b)
98-72            9-28-1998     1               15-37(4)a1–(4 )a10
98-82            10-19-1998    1               2-288
98-87            10-26-1998    1         Added  9-9.1
98-88            10-26-1998    1               9-12(a)(1)
98-90            11-2-1998     1               9-9.1(a)
98-100           12-21-1998    1,2             9-26
                             3–6           9-88(1), (2)
                             7               9-96(a)
99-05            1-18-1999     2–4     Rpld   16-85.7
99-08            2-15-1999     1               13-92(a)
99-09            2-15-1999     1         Rpld   13-93
99-10            2-22-1999     1         Added  10-60.1
99-11            2-22-1999     1               10-1
99-12            2-22-1999     1               8-232
99-15            3-15-1999     1               2-121
99-20            3-22-1999     1               6-16
99-21            3-22-1999     1               4-1
99-23            4-5-1999      1,2             16-85.7
99-50a           6-28-1999     1         Added  Ch. 2, Art. III,
                                            Div. 5
99-60            8-9-1999      1               8-231
99-66            8-23-1999     1               7-181
99-87            11-1-1999     1         Added  Ch. 10, Art. VI
99-88            11-8-1999     1               14-20(a)(7), (a)(17),
                                            (a)(21),
                                            (a)(28)–(a)(32 ), (b)
                             1               14-73
                             1         Rpld   14-74
                             1         Rpld   14-75
99-95            11-15-1999    1         Added  10-61.1
99-96            11-15-1999    1,2             10-107.11
99-97            11-15-1999    1         Rpld   App. B, §3-15.1(A)
02-2000          1-10-2000     1               16-85.7
03-2000          1-17-2000     1         Rpld   App. A, §16.3–16.5
                             1         Rpld   App. A, §22.1e
                             2         Added  App. A, §16.11,
                                            17.5, 18.5
06-2000          1-24-2000     1         Rpld   4-97(c), 4-98(f)
                             2               4-98(c)
                             3         Added  4-97(c), 4-98(f)
                             4               4-52(2)
                             5               4-47
12-2000          2-14-2000     1         Added  Ch. 8, Art. XIX
                                             
                                             
16-2000          3-13-2000     1               8-81
                             2         Rpld   8-85
                             3               8-96
                             4               8-97
                             5               8-98(a)
                             6               8-98(g)
                             7         Added  8-97(a)(1)
                             8         Rpld   8-99
21-2000          4-3-2000      1         Added  8-97(a)(2)
22-2000          4-3-2000      3         Added  Ch. 15, Art. VII
25-2000          4-17-2000     1               2-121
33-00            6-5-2000      1               9-17(b)
34-00            6-5-2000      1         Rpld   9-36
                                            Ch. 9, Art. V
35-00            6-5-2000      1         Added  9-48
36-00            6-5-2000      1               9-42
39-00            6-26-2000     1         Rpld   9-31, 9-31a
                             2               9-119
                             3               9-118
51-00            7-24-2000     1               3-8(a)
                             2         Added  3-8(i)
52-00            7-24-2000     1               3-8(h)(1)
58-00            8-14-2000     1               9-16(1)–(6)
59-00            8-14-2000     1         Added  9-21
61-00            8-28-2000     1               App. A, §23.3
67-00            9-11-2000     1               8-59(5)
74-00            9-25-2000     1               16-305
76-2000          10-2-2000     1               13-25(b)(2)
78-2000          10-9-2000     1               9-118
80-2000          10-23-2000    1,2             10-90(a),(b)
85-00            11-20-2000    1         Added  10-57.1
88-2000          12-18-2000    1         Added  Ch. 15, Art. VIII
09-2001          2-5-2001      1               15-37(2)
01-10            2-5-2001      1               9-16(1)–(6)
17-2001          2-19-2001     1               8-224(5), 8-232,
                                            8-233
20-2001          2-26-2001     1               15-37(2)
29-2001          4-2-2001      1               2-121
34-2001          4-23-2001     1               13-38(b), 13-38(d)
                             2               10-107.11
53-2001          6-18-2001     1               9-26
68-2001          8-27-2001     1               6-62
                             2               6-63
72-2001          9-17-2001     1               9-9.1, 9-12(a)(1)
                                      Added  9-14.1
                                            9-15, 9-17(a)
                                      Added  9-17(i)
                                            10-107.11
100-2001         12-17-2001    1               9-37(a)(1)
01-2002          1-7-2002      1         Added  8-234(n)
16-2002          3-4-2002      1               2-121
18-2002          3-11-2002     1         Rpld   Ch. 16, Art. II
                                      Added  Ch. 16, Art. II
                                             
20-2002          3-18-2002     1               9-26, 9-37(c), 9-39,
                                            9-40, 9-41(e),
                                            9-42(b), 9-43(b),
                                            9-88(1)–(4), 9-89,
                                            9-96
21-2002          3-25-2002     1               15-2(a)(1),
                                            (a)(2), (c)
31-2002          4-8-2002      1               9-47, 9-48(d)
37-2002          4-22-2002     1         Added  Ch. 8, Art. II,
                                            Div. 3
38-2002          5-20-2002     1               4-1
                             2               4-4
                             3               4-23
69-2002          8-26-2002     1               3-9(a)(1)
70-2002          8-26-2002     2         Rpld   15-37(1)
                                            15-36, 15-37, 15-38
                             3         Rpld   Ch. 13, Art. VI
                             4         Added  Ch. 15, Art. IX
74-2002          9-9-2002      1         Added  Ch. 16, Art. V
75-2002          9-16-2002     1               3-9(a)
79-2002          9-16-2002     1               16-57
82-2002          9-23-2002     1               6-1
                             2               6-16
                             3               6-19(a)
                             4               6-20(a)
                             5               6-21
                             6               6-22
                             7         Rpld   6-23
89-2002          10-21-2002    1         Rpld   Ch. 11, Art. IV
                                      Added  Ch. 11, Art. IV
96-2002          11-18-2002    1               16-301(a)
98-2002          11-25-2002             Rpld   App. A
                                      Added  App. A
01-2003          1-6-2003      1               8-59(5)
05-2003          1-27-2003     1               9-16
08-2003          2-10-2003     1               9-26, 9-37(c), 9-40,
                                            9-41(e), 9-42,
                                            9-45(g), 9-88(1), (4),
                                            9-89, 9-91, 9-92,
                                            9-93, 9-94, 9-96(b)
13-2003          2-10-2003     1               13-71(d)
                             2               13-92(a)
14-2003          2-17-2003     1–4           4-1
18-2003          3-17-2003     1               8-234(d)
23-2003          4-14-2003     1               Adopting ordinance
24-2003          4-14-2003     1         Rpld   13-116, 13-117,
                                            13-118
30-2003          4-14-2003     1               16-905, 16-906(a)
32-2003          4-21-2003     1               2-121
33-2003          4-21-2003     1               App. A. §5.6
                             2               App. A. §6.2
                             3               App. A. §6.5b
                             4               App. A. §33.10
                             5               11-111(b)(7)
                             6               11-112(b)(3)
35-2003          4-28-2003     1               8-55(a)(2)
36-2003          4-28-2003     1,2             4-23
                             3,4             4-3
                             5,6             4-4
40-2003          5-19-2003     1               1-13(a)
54-2003          7-14-2003     1               7-116
                             2               7-117.1(h)
                                      Added  7-117.1(k)
                                            7-117.1(l)
                             3               7-121
                             4         Added  7-141.1
66-2003          8-11-2003     1         Added  16-910
83-2003          9-15-2003     1               10-40.1(a)
90-2003          11-10-2003    1               10.40.1(b)
                             2         Added  10-40.1(c)
                             3               10-107.11
101-2003         12-15-2003    1,2             6-63
102-2003         12-22-2003    1               3-8(i)
                             2               3-9(a)
01-2004          1-5-2004      1               4-1
02-2004          1-5-2004      1               7-41(a)(1)
05-2004          1-19-2004     1               6-16
10-2004          1-26-2004     1         Added  Ch. 15, Art. X
14-2004          2-2-2004      1         Rpld.  9-94
15-2004          2-2-2004      1               8-232(4)b
                             2,3             8-233
17-2004          2-2-2004      1               10-60(c)
                             2               10-107.11
18-2004          2-2-2004      1               9-12
                             2               9-13
23-2004          2-16-2004     1               App. A, §8.3c
24-2004          2-16-2004     1               9-13
25-2004          2-16-2004     1               9-16
33-2004          3-22-2004     1         Added  App. D
41-2004          3-22-2004     1               9-92(2)
                             2         Rpld.  9-92(8)
                             3               9-93(2)
49-2004          4-26-2004     1               8-230
50-2004          5-3-2004      1               10-21
51-2004          5-3-2004      1               10-59
52-2004          5-3-2004      1         Added  10-21.1
53-2004          5-3-2004      1               10-22
55-2004          5-3-2004      1               Ch. 2, Art. III,
                                            Div. 5
56-2004          5-10-2004     1               7-145
57-2004          5-10-2004     1               11-121
61-2004          5-17-2004     1               2-121
68-2004          6-14-2004     2         Rpld.  11-134(a)
                                      Renum. 11-134(a)
                             3               11-135
                             4               11-136
76-2004          7-12-2004     1               10-107.11
77-2004          7-26-2004     1               13-38(a)
78-2004          7-26-2004     1               6-16, 6-19(a),
                                            6-20(a), 6-21, 6-22
79-2004          7-26-2004     1               4-1, 4-3, 4-4, 4-23
88-2004          9-20-2004     1               7-156(c)
110-2004         12-6-2004     1         Rpld   Ch. 13, Art. V
111-2004         12-6-2004     1         Rpld   2-17(a)(16)
115-2004         12-6-2004     1         Rpld   Ch. 4, Art. III
                                      Added  Ch. 4, Art. III
001-2005         1-17-2005     1               16-84, 16-85,
                                            16-85.1, 16-85.2
                                      Rpld   16-85.3–16-8 5.8
                                            16-86, 16-96
004-2005         1-24-2005     1               2-239
017-2005         3-21-2005     1               2-12
024-2005         4-4-2005      1         Added  10-40.2
042-2005         5-23-2005     1               3-9
051-2005         6-13-2005     1               2-121
058-2005         7-11-2005     1               13-101
059-2005         7-11-2005     1               10-107.11
061-2005         7-25-2005     1,3             2-32
062-2005         8-8-2005      1               11-121
082-2005         10-17-2005    1               7-111, 7-117,
                                            7-117.1, 7-117.2,
                                            7-118, 7-121
089-2005         10-17-2005    1         Rpld   8-507
092-2005         11-7-2005     1               App. D, §1-39
095-2005         11-14-2005    1               2-121
109-2005         12-12-2005    1,4       Added  Ch. 10, Art. VII
001-2006         1-16-2006     1               13-21
                             2               13-24(b)
                             3               13-25, 13-26
                             4         Rpld   13-30
004-2006         1-23-2006     1               9-16(a)(1)–(6)
005-2006         2-13-2006     1               3-9(a)(1)a
011-2006         3-6-2006      1               16-85
029-2006         5-1-2006      1               10-107.11
034-2006         5-15-2006     1               2-32
051-2006         7-24-2006     1         Added  Ch. 13, Art. III,
                                            Div. 3
052-2006         7-24-2006     1               11-121
058-2006         8-14-2006     1               9-92, 9-93
068-2006         9-11-2006     1               9-128, 9-129
069-2006         10-9-2006     1               9-47
070-2006         10-9-2006     1         Added  9-93(4)
087-2006         12-4-2006     1               2-121
094-2006         12-18-2006    1               App. D. §2-1
003-2007         1-8-2007      1–6     Added  Ch. 2, Art. VI,
                                            Div. 9
024-2007         3-19-2007     1               12-3
025-2007         4-9-2007      1         Added  14-20(a)(33),( a)(34)
030-2007         4-23-2007     1         Added  9-32(16)
071-2007         9-10-2007     2               16-905
076-2007         10-1-2007     1               3-9(b) intro
003-2008         1-7-2008      1               16-85.1, 16-85.2
011-2008         2-4-2008                     2-271, 2-272,
                                            2-257(a)
012-2008         2-18-2008     1               App. A, §8.13a
                             2               App. A, §8.13a(4)
                             3               App. A, §8.13b
014-2008         2-18-2008     1               App. A, §14.4
021-2008         3-24-2008     1               6-63(a)
027-2008         4-14-2008     1         Added  Ch. 9, Art. VI
029-2008         4-21-2008     1         Added  16-22(d)
                             2               16-36(b), (i)
                             3               16-44
                                      Added  16-44.1
                             4               16-87.1, 16-87.2
                             5         Added  16-907(e)
057-2008         8-25-2008     2         Added  Ch. 16, Art. VI
                                                2-10, 2-11, 2-14, 2-17, 2-31, 2-33, 2-52(a), 2-68(6),(13), 2-121, 2-122, 2-143
058-2008         8-25-2008     1               (10), 2-144, 2-147(2), 2-151, 2-152, 2-154, 2-155, 2-156, 2-157, 2-158, 2-160
                                                (a), 2-179, 2-235, 2-236, 2-237, 2-239, 2-241
067-2008         10-20-2008    1         Added  App. A, § 8.14i
068-2008         10-20-2008    1               4-156
069-2008         10-20-2008    1               10-107.11
                             2               10-107.11
081-2008         12-22-2008    1               9-16
082-2008         12-22-2008    1               10-39
083-2008         12-22-2008    1               10-40.1
084-2008         12-22-2008    1               10-41
085-2008         12-22-2008    1               10-42
089-2008         12-22-2008    1               App. C, Art. III
090-2008         12-22-2008    1               App. C, Art. II
008-2009         2-2-2009      1               App. A, §4.6b(1)
                             2               App. A, §4.6c(3)a
                             3               App. A, §5.6
                             4               App. A, §6.2
                             5               App. A, §6.5b
                             6               App. A, §33.10
                                             
010-2009         2-2-2009      1–3           4-1
                             4               4-23
                             5               4-4
                             6               4-3
                             7               4-25
                             8               4-183
011-2009         2-2-2009      1               7-41(a)(1)
012-2009         2-2-2009      1               8-55(a)(1)
                             2               8-273
                             3               8-488(b)
013-2009         2-2-2009      1               13-71(d)
                             2               13-92(a)
034-2009         5-4-2009      1               14-20(a)(7)
035-2009         5-4-2009      1               3-8(g)
                             2               3-8(h)
042-2009         6-15-2009     1         Rpld.  6-43a
043-2009         6-15-2009     1               10-39
                             2               10-40
044-2009         6-15-2009     1               12-2
045-2009         7-13-2009     1,2             8-222
                             3               8-234(b),(c)
                             4               8-234(c)
047-2009         7-27-2009     1               App. A, §8.13a(1)
048-2009         7-27-2009     1               9-40
057-2009         9-14-2009     1               6-63(a)
065-2009         10-12-2009    1               2-304
080-2009         11-23-2009    1               8-230
084-2009         12-7-2009     1               16-85
086-2009         12-7-2009     1,2             16-905
002-2010         1-11-2010     1               2-12
003-2010         1-18-2010     1               15-2
                             2               15-52(a)
                             3               15-61(a)
004-2010         1-18-2010     1               8-96
                             2               8-97(a)
                             3               8-233
005-2010         1-18-2010     1               9-26
                             2               9-37(c)
                             3               9-39
                             4               9-40
                             5               9-41(e)
                             6               9-42(b)
                             7               9-43(b)
                             8               9-48(d)
                             9               9-88
                             10              9-89
                             11              9-91
                             12              9-93
                             13              9-96
008-2010         2-8-2010      1               13-24(h)
                             2               13-25
                             3               13-40, 13-41
                                             
009-2010         2-8-2010      1               16-36(i)
                             2               16-908
011-2010         3-8-2010      1               15-2
                             2               15-52(a)
                             3               15-61(a)
018-2010         3-15-2010     1               11-71
                             2               11-72
                             3               11-73
                             4               11-74
                             5               11-75
                             6               11-76
                             7               11-77
                             8               11-78
                             9               11-79
                             10              11-80
                             11              11-81
                             12              11-82
049-2010         8-9-2010      1               8-234
081-2010         12-13-2010    1               9-17(a)
                             2               9-17(h)
084-2010         12-20-2010    1               8-86
004-2011         2-7-2011      1               8-8
                             2               8-97(a)
                             3               8-432(a)
                                            8-433(a)
005-2011         2-7-2011      1               8-28
006-2011         2-7-2011      1               9-42(a)
009-2011         2-14-2011     1               15-108
013-2011         2-21-2011     1               9-26
                             2               9-40
                             3               9-41(e)
                             4               9-47
                             5               9-88
                             6               9-96
056-2011         7-25-2011     1,2             8-222
057-2011         7-25-2011     1               8-232
059-2011         8-8-2011      1               10-53
060-2011         8-8-2011      1               10-23, 10-53,
                                            10-107.11
078-2011         10-10-2011    1               8-441
083-2011         11-7-2011     1               14-20(a)(7)
088-2011         11-21-2011    1               4-1, 4-3, 4-4, 4-23
089-2011         11-21-2011    1               6-16
                             2               6-19(a)
                             3               6-20
                             4               6-21
                             5               6-22
                                             
                                             
018-2012         3-19-2012     1               4-183
019-2012         3-19-2012     1               9-26
                             2               9-93(1)
020-2012         3-19-2012     1               10-107.11
021-2012         3-19-2012     1               13-25
051-2012         7-23-2012     1         Added  9-15.1
                             1         Rpld.  9-21
                             2         Added  9-16(a)(7)
                             3         Added  9-12(a)(13)
                             4         Added  9-13(a)(7)
065-2012         10-15-2012    1               16-36(b)
066-2012         10-15-2012    1               16-44
068-2012         11-5-2012     1         Added  App. A, §8.19
080-2012         12-17-2012    1         Added  8-234(p)
                                            10-107.11
005-2013         2-11-2013     1               2-272(b)
007-2013         3-4-2013      1               8-426(b)
044-2013         8-12-2013     1               2-155
052-2013         9-9-2013      1               2-2, 2-141
058-2013         10-21-2013    1               11-121
059-2013         10-21-2013    1               11-121
062-2013         11-18-2013    1               10-9(c)
                             2               10-9(d)
                             3         Added  10-9(e)
                                      Added  10-9(f)
063-2013         11-18-2013    1               14-20(a)(3)
006-2014         1-20-2014     1               16-85
016-2014         3-17-2014     1               10-9(d)(2),(d)( 3)
018-2014         3-17-2014     1               6-63(b),(c)
029-2014         3-24-2014     1         Added  9-9.2
                             2               10-60.1
                             3         Added  10-60.2
                             4         Added  10-70
                             5               10-107.11
030-2014         3-24-2014     1               14-20(a)(26)
                             2         Added  14-20(a)(35)– (a)(43)
052-2014         7-14-2014     1               9-44
085-2014         12-1-2014     1               7-233(b)
086-2014         12-1-2014     1               13-25
087-2014         12-1-2014     1               13-38(b)
091-2014         12-15-2014    1               16-36(c)
095-2014         12-15-2014    1               9-113
                                             
                                             
011-2015         4-6-2015      1               6-63(a)
022-2015         4-20-2015     1               10-9(d)(3),(d)( 8),(f)
048-2015         10-12-2015    1               13-25
056-2015         12-14-2015    1               4-146.1(a)(1)g
                             2         Rpld.  4-146.1(a)(2)d
                             3               4-146.1(b)
058-2015         12-14-2015    1               9-26
                             2               9-37(c)
                             3               9-39
                             4               9-40
                             5               9-41(e)
                             6               9-42(b)
                             7               9-43(b)
                             8               9-48(d)
                             9         Rpld.  Ch. 9, Art. II,
                                            Div. 2
                                      Renum. Ch. 9, Art. II,
                                            Div. 2
                             10              9-83
                             11              9-88(1)–(4)
                             12              9-89
                             13        Renum. Ch. 9, Art. II,
                                            Div. 3
                             14              9-91
                             15              9-92
                             16              9-93
                             17        Rpld.  9-95
                             18        Rpld.  9-96
                             19        Renum. Ch. 9, Art. II,
                                            Div. 4
059-2015         12-14-2015    1               10-107.11
006-2016         1-18-2016     1               2-32, 2-33
011-2016         3-7-2016      1               13-71(b)
                             2               13-74
                             3               13-75
                             4               13-92(a)
                             5         Rpld.  13-93
                             6         Added  Ch. 13, Art. V
019-2016         4-18-2016     1         Rpld.  8-234(d)
                                      Renum. 8-234(e)–(p) as
                                            (d)–(o)
                                            8-234(i)
                                            8-234(o)(3)
020-2016         4-18-2016     1,2             10-107.11
022-2016         5-2-2016      3               11-121
                             4               11-122
                             5               11-135
                             9               11-137.1
                             10        Added  11-137.2
                             11        Added  11-123
023-2016         5-9-2016      1               9-83
025-2016         5-9-2016      1               10-107.11
026-2016         5-16-2016     1               10-107.11
043-2016         10-24-2016    1         Added  Ch. 7, Art. VI,
                                            Div. 4
052-2016         11-21-2016    1         Added  Ch. 13, Art. VI
056-2016         12-19-2016    2,3             16-85.1, 16-85.2
058-2016         12-19-2016    1               7-170
001-2017         1-23-2017     1               14-17
                                             
                             2         Added  8-97(c)
004-2017         2-6-2017      1         Added  6-25
006-2017         2-13-2017                     
                             2         Added  8-398(b)
                             3               8-399
                             4               8-421(b)(1)
                             5               8-421(b)(6)
                                      Added  8-421(b)(6)a
008-2017         3-6-2017      1         Added  4-158(b)(3)
014-2017         4-10-2017     1         Renum. 7-181–7-193
                             2               7-174
                             3               7-177(a)
015-2017         4-10-2017     1               App. A, §14.2
                             2               App. A, §12.2
                             3               App. A, §13.2
                             4               App. A, §16.1
                             5               App. A, §17.1
                             6               App. A, §18.1
                             7               App. A, §19.1
029-2017         8-28-2017     1         Rpld.  16-910
041-2017         11-6-2017     1               2-216
042-2017         11-6-2017     1               7-60(a),(a)(1)
                             2               7-60(a)(2)
                             3         Rpld.  7-60(a)(3)
043-2017         11-6-2017     1               8-2
                             2               8-8
                             3               8-82, 8-84(b) intro
                             4               8-273
                             5         Rpld.  8-274
                             6               8-488
045-2017         11-13-2017    1               2-32 intro
047-2017         11-20-2017    1               4-1
                             2               4-3
                             3               4-4
                             4               4-23
048-2017         11-20-2017    1               6-16
                             2               6-19(a)
                             3               6-20
                             4               6-21
                             5               6-22
                                            10-107.11
053-2017         12-18-2017    1               15-61(a)
054-2017         12-18-2017    1               6-61
                             2               6-63
055-2017         12-18-2017    1               2-289
056-2017         12-18-2017    1               16-85
                             2               16-85.1
                             3               16-85.2
057-2017         12-18-2017    1               13-25
001-2018         1-8-2018      1               2-289
011-2018         3-26-2018     1               2-12
013-2018         4-23-2018     1               10-102
014-2018         4-23-2018     1               App. A, §5.10
                             2               App. A, §5.10a,
                                            5.10b
015-2018         4-23-2018     1               4-63(f)(1)
020-2018         5-14-2018     1–4           8-181
024-2018         6-11-2018     1               9-12(a)(8)
031-2018         6-25-2018     1               8-232(4)
033-2018         7-9-2018      1–6     Added  Ch. 16, Art. VII
054-2018         9-24-2018                    Ch. 11, Art. V
056-2018         9-24-2018     1               14-20(a)(38)
                             2         Added  14-20(a)(44)
058-2018         10-8-2018     1               15-54(b)
                             2               15-65(b)
070-2018         12-10-2018                   8-97
072-2018         12-10-2018                   2-32
075-2018         12-17-2018    1,3             15-61(a)
001-2019         1-14-2019     1               16-85
                             2               16-85.1
                             3               16-85.2
002-2019         1-14-2019     1,2             16-905
003-2019         1-14-2019     1               2-15(b)
030-2019         6-10-2019     1         Added  4-5—4-13
031-2019         6-10-2019     1               7-41
034-2019         7-8-2019      1         Rpld.  Ch. 2, Art. IV, Div. 7
035-2019         7-8-2019      1               7-181, 7- 231—7-234
036-2019         7-8-2019      1               Ch. 13, Art. II
044-2019         9-9-2019      1               11-16, 11-17
046-2019         9-23-2019     1               Ch. 14, Art. IV
047-2019         9-23-2019     1               11-51—11-55
053-2019         10-28-2019    1               6-63
054-2019         10-28-2019    2               15-7
                             3               15-7
                             4               15-7
055-2019         10-28-2019    1         Added  Ch. 8, Art. XX
                             2         Added  App. A, §8.19
056-2019         10-28-2019    2         Added  Ch. 15, Art. XI
057-2019         10-28-2019    1         Added  Ch. 8, Art. XXI
                             2         Added  App. A, §8.20
058-2019         10-28-2019    1         Rpld.  Ch. 8, Art. IX
                                      Added  Ch. 8, Art. IX
063-2019         11-11-2019    1         Rpld.  Ch. 4, Art. III
                                      Added  Ch. 4, Art. III
064-2019         11-11-2019    1         Added  Ch. 4, Art. IX
                             2         Rpld.  App. A, §8.19
070-2019         12-9-2019     1               8-96
                             2               8-97
                             3         Added  8-100—8-107
073-2019         12-16-2019    1               2-52
074-2019         12-16-2019    1               16-85
                             2               16-85.1
                             3               16-85.2
075-2019         12-16-2019    1               16-905
001-2020         1-13-2020     1         Rpld.  Ch. 11, Art. I
                                      Added  Ch. 11, Art. I
002-2020         1-13-2020     1         Rpld.  7-136—7-147
                             1         Added  7-136—7-144
004-2020         3-9-2020      1         Rpld.  Ch. 7, Art. VI, Div. 4
                                      Added  Ch. 7, Art. VI, Div. 4
                                            7-167—7-174
013-2020         4-27-2020     1         Rpld.  2-88
                                      Added  2-88
014-2020         4-27-2020     1         Rpld.  2-87
                                      Added  2-87
046-2020         9-14-2020     1               11-121
                             2               11-122
051-2020         9-28-2020                    8-232, 8-234
053-2020         10-12-2020    2         Rpld.  4-136—4-145
                             2         Added  4-136—4-145.16
055-2021         9-13-2021     1               App. A, Art. XI
056-2020         10-12-2020                   3-13
064-2020         11-9-2020              Added  15-119—15-125
070-2020         12-21-2020    1         Rpld.  App. A, Art. I—Art. XXXVIII
                             1         Added  App. A, Art. I—Art. XXXIII
                             2         Rpld.  Ch. 11, Art. VII—IX
                             3         Rpld.  Ch. 8, Art. XXI
011-2021         2-25-2021                    8-232, 8-234
024-2021         4-26-2021     1               2-9
046-2021         9-14-2021     1         Added  2-300.10—2-300.11
048-2021         8-24-2021     2         Rpld.  16-905
050-2021         8-24-2021     2         Rpld.  16-85
052-2021         9-14-2021                    10-9
056-2021         9-14-2021     2         Rpld.  16-85
059-2021         9-14-2021     1         Rpld.  6-63
074-2021         12-14-2021    3         Rpld.  15-51—15-56
007-2022         2-28-2022     1               8-561—8-567
008-2022         3-14-2022                    6-48
009-2022         3-14-2022     1, 2            8-101
                             3–5           8-103
12-2022          3-28-2022     1, 2            App. A, Art. XI
57-2022          12-12-2022                   2-271, 2-272,
                                      Added  2-273—2-278
58-2022          12-19-2022    1         Rpld.  11-16, 11-17,
                             2         Added  11-171—11-175
005-2023         3-13-2023     1               App A., Art. VI
                             2, 3            App. A, Art. XIX
006-2023         3-13-2023              Added  Added   8-486—8-497
022-2023         6-12-2023     1         Rpld.  2-286—2-287.6.1
                             2               7-22
                             3         Added  4-226—4-230
028-2023         7-24-2023     2, 3            7-234, 13-38
038-2023         7-24-2023     1               2-300.10, 2-300.11
047-2023         9-11-2023     2         Added  7-51
                             3         Rpld.  8-221—8-270
048-2023         9-11-2023     2         Added  4-14
056-2023         11-13-2023    2         Rpld.  14-51 - 14-55
                             3               11-51—11-55
03-2024          1-22-2024                    2-271, 2-272
04-2024          1-22-2024                    10-40.2, 10-40.3
09-2024          2-12-2024                    3-1—3-19
18-2024          4-8-2024               Added  16-2—16-8
20-2024          4-8-2024                     4-46—4-74
                                                16-100—16-102, 16-200, 16-201, 16-300—16-307, 16-350—16-355, 16-400—16-407, 16-
33-2024          5-20-2024                    450—16-456, 16-500—16-514, 16-550, 16-551, 16-600, 16-650, 16-700—16-707, 16-
                                                750—16-753, 16-800—16-802, 16-850, 16-851, 16-900
34-2024          5-20-2024                    11-155
35-2024          5-20-2024                    11-101
36-2024          6-10-2024                    15-51
37-2024          6-10-2024                    8-271—8-273, 8-275—8-277
38-2024          6-10-2024                    App. A, Art VI, App. A, Art XI, App. A, Art. XIX, App. A, Art. XX, App. A, Art.
                                                XXI, App. A, Art. XXI, App. A, Art. XXIV, App. A, Art XXV
57-2024          10-14-2024    1               2-5, 2-6
59-2024          10-14-2024    1               2-67, 2-70
27-2025          3-25-2025     1               16-200, 16-201, 16-401, 16-406, 16-451, 16-500, 16-501, 15-503, 15-504, 16-510,
                                                16-513, 16-600, 16-650, 16-703, 16-750
46-2025          4-29-2025     1         Added  15-126—15-130
48-2025          4-28-2025     2               2-161
49-2025          4-28-2025     1               3-7
50-2025          4-28-2025     1               3-3
54-2025          5-19-2025     1               16-301
56-2025          6-10-2025     1               16-8
57-2025          6-10-2025     1         Added  13-120—13-125
58-2025          6-9-2025      2               4-175—4-188
59-2025          6-9-2025      1         Repl.  8-486—8-488, 8-490, 8-493—8-497
62-2025          6-24-2025     1         Repl.  8-518—8-526
                                             
 
 
STATUTORY REFERENCE TABLE
ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
This table shows the location within the code, either in the text or notes
following the text, of references to the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
ILCS Chapter Section Section This Code
ILCS Chapter Section                  Section This Code
5            70/1                     1-2
            70/1.31                  1-6
            100/10-63                2-276
            120/1 et seq.            2-31
            120/1 et seq.            2-32(1)
            120/1 et seq.            2-33
            120/1 et seq.            2-33(1)
            120/1–120/6            2-33
            120/2.02 et seq.         2-33
            140/1 et seq.            2-12(b)
            140/1 et seq.            2-12(c)
            275/1                    5-16
            275/7                    Ch. 5
            315/3                    2-105
            345                      2-68(13)
            430/1-1 et seq.          2-115
10           5/1-1–55/8             Ch. 2, Art. VII
            5/1-3                    2-105
            5/4-1–5/4-31           2-301
            5/9-1.4                  2-105
            5/9-3                    2-105
20           405/405-272              2-276
            655/4                    11-122
            1805/30.25               2-276
            1805/30.30               2-276
            2630/3                   2-273.2
30           580/1 et seq.            2-273.4
            725/1.2                  11-2
35           105/2                    15-4(a)
            105/3-5                  15-4(c)
            115/1                    15-3(a)
            115/3-5                  15-3(a)
            115/9                    15-3(b)
            120/1 et seq.            11-135
            120/2                    15-5(b)
            120/3                    15-5(b)
            130/1                    8-486
            143/10-5                 8-486
            155/1 et seq.            15-5
            155/1 et seq.            15-6
40           5/3-128 et seq.          12-4
            5/3-132 et seq.          12-5
            5/4-101 et seq.          Ch. 6, Art. III
            5/4-121 et seq.          6-49
50           740/1 et seq.            Ch. 6, Art. III
            742                      2-239(b)(1)
55           5/5-1022(b)              13-118
65           5/1-1-1 et seq.          Ch. 2
            5/1-1-1 et seq.          16-97
            5/1-1-2                  2-2
            5/1-1-2                  2-141
            5/1-1-7                  9-42
            5/1-2-1                  1-13
            5/1-2-1                  11-71
            5/1-2-1.5                4-146.1(a)(1)g
            5/1-2-3                  1-1
            5/1-2-4                  App. B, Art. V, § 5-7
            5/1-2-7                  1-13
            5/2-2-12                 2-87
            5/2-2-12                 2-1
            5/3-10-5 et seq.         2-179
            5/3-10-7                 2-1
            5/3-10-7                 2-31
            5/3-11-1                 14-37
            5/3-11-7                 2-29
            5/3-11-11                2-31
            5/3-11-13                2-33
            5/3-14-1                 2-27
            5/3-14-3                 14-19
            5/3.1-15-25              12-3(b)
            5/3.1-30-20              12-3(f)
            5/3.1-35-40 et seq.      2-102
            5/3.1-35-50              2-103
            5/3.1-35-60 et seq.      Ch. 2, Art. III, Div. 4
            5/3.1-35-90              2-87
            5/3.1-35-95              2-88
            5/3.1-35-110             2-87
            5/3.1-50-5 et seq.       Ch. 2, Art. IV
            5/5-1-1–5/5-5-6        Ch. 2
            5/5-2-1 et seq.          Ch. 2, Art. VII
            5/5-2-10                 2-27
            5/5-2-19                 2-86
            5/5-2-19                 2-101
            5/5-3-1–5/5-3-5        2-28
            5/5-3-6                  2-30
            5/5-3-7                  2-70
            5/5-4-1 et seq.          Ch. 2, Art. IV
            5/8-4-1 et seq.          Ch. 2, Art. V
            5/8-11-1                 15-2(a)(4)
            5/8-11-2                 15-36
            5/8-11-2                 15-37(3)
            5/8-11-5                 15-2(a)(4)
            5/8-11-5                 15-3(a)
            5/8-11-6                 15-4(a)
            5/8-11-7                 15-5(a)
            5/8-11-8                 15-6
            5/8-11-22                15-117
            5/8-11-24                15-126, 15-127, 15-129
            5/9-1-1 et seq.          Ch. 13
            5/9-2-98                 2-159
            5/10-2.1-1 et seq.       2-231
            5/10-2.1-1 et seq.       2-235
            5/10-2.1-1 et seq.       Ch. 6, Art. III
            5/10-2.1-1 et seq.       12-2
            5/10-2.1-4               6-36
            5/10-2.1-15              2-239
            5/10-2.1-16              2-238
            5/11-2-3                 Ch. 8, Art. VIII
            5/11-2-9                 App. B, Art. I, § 1-2
            5/11-5-1 et seq.         Ch. 10
            5/11-6-1                 Ch. 6, Art. III
            5/11-6-1–5/11-6-4      Ch. 6
            5/11-8-1 et seq.         6-16
            5/11-10-1 et seq.        15-7
            5/11-11-1 et seq.        Ch. 11
            5/11-12-4                11-31
            5/11-12-8                App. B, Art. III, § 3-1
            5/11-12-8                App. B, Art. III, § 3-15
            5/11-12-8                App. B, Art. IV, § 4-2
            5/11-12-8                App. B, Art. IV, § 4-5
            5/11-12-8                App. B
            5/11-12-8–5/11-12-12   App. B, Art. I, § 1-1
            5/11-12-11               App. B, Art. I, § 1-3
            5/11-12-12               11-71
            5/11-13-1 et seq.        4-48
            5/11-16-1 et seq.        Ch. 7
            5/11-19.2-1              13-23
            5/11-30-1–5/11-30-9    Ch. 4
            5/11-30-2                11-71
            5/11-30-8                11-71
            5/11-31.1                4-148
            5/11-31-2                11-71
            5/11-33-1                Ch. 4, Art. II
            5/11-37-1 et seq.        Ch. 4, Art. II
            5/11-42-1                Ch. 8, Art. III
            5/11-42-1                Ch. 8, Art. IV
            5/11-42-1 et seq.        Ch. 8
            5/11-42-2                Ch. 8, Art. III, Div. 2
            5/11-42-3                8-6
            5/11-42-4                Ch. 8, Art. XII
            5/11-42-5                Ch. 8, Art. III
            5/11-42-5                Ch. 8, Art. X
            5/11-42-5                Ch. 8, Art. XI
            5/11-42-5                Ch. 8, Art. XIII
            5/11-42-6                Ch. 8, Art. XII
            5/11-42-13               Ch. 8, Art. XIV
            5/11-45.1-1 et seq.      Ch. 14, Art. V
            5/11-53-2                Ch. 8, Art. XI
            5/11-53-3                Ch. 8, Art. XI
            5/11-59-1                Ch. 5
            5/11-60-1 et seq.        Ch. 8
            5/11-72-1                8-436
            5/11-74.2-16 et seq.     Ch. 2, Art. V
            5/11-74.4-1              11-137
            5/11-74.4-1 et seq.      Ch. 2, Art. V
            5/11-74.4-1 et seq.      15-78
            5/11-74.4-4.2            15-78
            5/11-74.5-1              Ch. 2, Art. V
            5/11-76-1                11-192
            5/11-80-1 et seq.        Ch. 13
            5/11-80-7                Ch. 13, Art. III, Div. 2
            5/11-84-1 et seq.        Ch. 13, Art. IV
            5/11-95-1 et seq.        Ch. 14
            5/11-95-3                14-17
            5/11-95-3                14-18
            5/11-117-12.2            2-276
            5/11-117-1 et seq.       Ch. 16
            5/11-124-1 et seq.       Ch. 16
            5/11-139-8               16-87
            5/11-141-1 et seq.       Ch. 16, Art. III
            5/11-141-7               16-87
            5/11-141-7 et seq.       16-100
            275/1                    5-16
            275/7                    Ch. 5
70           405/22.02a               7-84
            405/22.02a               App. B, Art. IV, § 4-2
            705/1 et seq.            2-236
75           5/1.01 et seq.           Ch. 14, Art. III
            5/1-5                    14-39
            5/1-6                    14-36
            5/2-1                    14-36
            5/4-1                    14-37
            5/4-1.1                  14-37
            5/4-4                    14-37
            5/4-5                    14-37
            5/4-7                    14-38
205          510/1                    Ch. 8, Art. X
215          5/224.05                 2-276
220          5/1-101 et seq.          15-71
            5/8-201.5                2-276
            5/16-104                 15-37(3)d
225          320/0.01–320/43        4-3
            454                      4-179
230          15/2(b)                  8-441
235          5/1-3.24                 3-1
            5/3-1                    3-1
            5/6-2                    3-4
            5/6-15                   8-226
            5/6-16                   4-146.1(a)(2)q
            5/6-28.8                 3-10, 3-13
            5/6-33                   3-10
            40/1 et seq.             3-1
310          5/24                     Ch. 2, Art. V
            10/10                    11-132
            30/4                     Ch. 2, Art. V
330          56/1 et seq.             2-273.4
410          130/1 et seq.            8-486
            705/1-1 et seq.          8-486
            705/1-10                 8-486
415          5/1 et seq.              16-100
            5/56 et seq.             8-506
425          30/2                     10-9
            5/24                     8-7
505          30/1 et seq.             8-425(6)
510          5/1 et seq.              Ch. 7, Art. VI
            5/8                      7-121
            5/8                      7-136
            70/1 et seq.             10-8
            70/3.01                  7-115
520          5/2.33 et seq.           10-49
605          5/2-104                  Ch. 13
625          5/1-100 et seq.          Ch. 9
            5/1-100 et seq.          9-133(b)
            5/1-100 et seq.          9-3
            5/1-208                  Ch. 9, Art. II
            5/1-217                  9-37(a)
            5/3-402                  9-3
            5/3-413(r)               9-3
            5/3-416                  9-3
            5/3-703                  9-3
            5/6-101                  9-3
            5/6-101                  9-12(a)(3)
            5/6-303                  9-12(a)(7)
            5/6-601                  9-2
            5/11-204                 9-12(a)(13)
            5/11-204                 9-15.1(a)
            5/11-204.1               9-12(a)(13)
            5/11-204.1               9-15.1(a)
            5/11-207                 Ch. 9
            5/11-208                 9-41
            5/11-208                 Ch. 9, Art. III
            5/11-209 et seq.         9-42
            5/11-501                 9-12(a)(9)
            5/11-1001 et seq.        Ch. 9, Art. III
            5/11-1303.3              9-47
            5/12-201(b)              9-3
            5/12-211                 9-3
            5/12-503(a),(b)          9-12(a)(2)
            5/16-101 et seq.         9-2
            5/20-204                 9-3
705          80/0.01 et seq.          10-86
720          5/2-11                   10-1
            5/11-9                   3-15
            5/11-9                   4-146.1(a)(2)a
            5/11-9                   10-66
            5/11-14                  4-146.1(a)(1)c
            5/11-14                  10-61
            5/11-15                  10-62
            5/11-17                  4-146.1(a)(1)d
            5/11-17                  10-63
            5/11-18                  10-64
            5/11-19                  10-65
            5/11-20                  3-15
            5/11-20                  8-7
            5/11-20                  10-4
            5/11-20                  10-6
            5/12-1                   4-146.1(a)(2)b
            5/12-1 et seq.           10-20
            5/12-3                   4-146.1(a)(2)c
            5/12-5                   4-146.1(a)(2)e
            5/12-5.1                 4-146.1(a)(2)f
            5/12-12                  10-61.1
            5/16-1                   4-146.1(a)(2)g
            5/16-1                   10-67
            5/16-2                   10-55
            5/16-10                  8-198
            5/16A-3                  10-54
            5/21-1                   10-56
            5/21-3                   10-57
            5/21-7                   10-68
            5/24-1                   4-146.1(a)(2)h
            5/24-1 et seq.           10-9
            5/24-1(a)(4)             9-12(a)(10)
            5/24-1.2                 9-12(a)(11)
            5/24-1.5                 9-12(a)(11)
            5/24-3.1                 4-146.1(a)(2)i
            5/25-1                   4-146.1(a)(2)j
            5/26-1                   4-146.1(a)(2)k
            5/26-1–5/26-4          10-26
            5/28-1                   4-146.1(a)(1)e
            5/28-2(b)                8-441
            5/28-3                   4-146.1(a)(1)f
            5/31-1                   4-146.1(a)(2)l
            5/31-4                   4-146.1(a)(2)m
            5/31-7                   4-146.1(a)(2)n
            5/36-1 et seq.           9-119
            5/37-1                   4-146.1(a)(2)o
            120/5                    4-146.1(a)(2)p
            365/1                    10-33
            505/1                    10-18
            550                      4-146.1(a)(1)b
            550/1 et seq.            10-60
            550/4(a),(b),(c),(d),(e) 9-12(a)(8)
            550/5(a),(b),(c),(d),(e) 9-12(a)(8)
            555/1                    9-12(a)(5)
            570                      4-146.1(a)(1)a
            570                      10-23.1(a)
            570/402                  9-12(a)(12)
            600/2                    10-60.2
            600/4                    10-60.2
725          5/31-1 et seq.           10-32
            5/31-8                   10-32
            5/32-5                   10-32
            5/107-8                  10-32
730          5/5-1-14                 10-1
            5/5-5.5-10               3-7
            5/5-5.5-25               3-7
735          5/2-1401.1               2-276
            5/3-101 et seq.          2-242, 16-8
            5/9-107.10               2-276
            5/15-1501.6              2-276
745          10/1-101                 App. B, Art. I, § 1-4
755          5/11-1                   8-361
765          205/0.01 et seq.         App. B, Art. I, § 1-1
            205/0.01 et seq.         App. B, Art. III, § 3-1
            205/1                    App. B, Art. II, § 2-2
            205/1(b)                 App. B, Art. III, § 3-1
            205/1(b)                 App. B, Art. IV, § 4-2
            205/2                    11-78(1)c
            205/2                    App. B, Art. IV, § 4-5
            205/6–205/8            App. B, Art. II, § 2-2
            705/16                   2-276
            735/1.2 et seq.          16-36(c)
775          5/5-101 para. (11)       2-275.2, 2-275.3
805          105/101.01               3-1
815                                  Ch. 8, Art. XI
            205/4.05                 2-276
            350/1–350/12           8-9
            405/26.5                 2-276
            633/1 et seq.            2-276
            636/37                   2-276
820          205/7                    Ch. 8, Art. III
            205/7                    8-8
            305                      2-68(13)
            310                      2-68(13)
            315                      2-68(13)
            320                      2-68(13)
                                     
 
