ROSEMONT, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-3-10D, passed 3-10-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
The Village Code of the Village of Rosemont, as supplemented, contains the 1971
Village Code and ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-3-10D, passed
March 10, 2025. Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance
supersede the provisions of this Village Code to the extent that they are in
conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the Code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1: ROSEMONT VILLAGE CODE
Section
1-1-1:   Title
1-1-2:   Acceptance
1-1-3:   Jurisdiction
1-1-4:   Amendments
1-1-5:   Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Rosemont. This
Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ROSEMONT VILLAGE
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the Village as
provided in section
1-1-4  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal documents.
(2019 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
the State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title.
(2019 Code)
1-1-3: JURISDICTION:
This Code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the
territorial limits of the Village and to that territory outside the Village
over which the Village has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
Constitutional provisions or any law.
(1971 Code § 1-11)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code.
(2019 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the
Clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of the Village Code
shall make every effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient
manner. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the Office of
the Village Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and
shall be returned to the Office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of
the Board of Trustees.
(2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
1-2-1:   Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2:   Provisions Passed Prior To Codification And Prior To Acquisition Of
Home Rule Powers
1-2-3:   Court Proceedings
1-2-4:   Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implications herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances and any ordinance abating any portion of a tax
levy;
   B.   Appropriation ordinance;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries, annexations and disconnections;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances; any ordinance adopting any policy or procedure for the
management or reporting upon the use of bond proceeds; any ordinance approving
any debt or loan by the Village, including but not limited to taxable and non-
taxable lines of credit;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the Village;
   L.   All special ordinances;
   M.   Ordinances establishing, amending, or pertaining to: any Tax Increment
Financing District; any special service area; the adoption of a Property
Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) program or area; any special assessment; or any
other ordinance approving any type of financing district or development area
that may be allowable under Illinois law;
   N.   Ordinances establishing or amending any pension fund, any retirement
annuity plan, or any post-employment benefits trust to the extent they apply to
Village employees;
   O.   Ordinances establishing or amending any pension fund, any retirement
annuity plan, or any post-employment benefits trust to the extent they apply to
the Village President, Village trustees and the Village Clerk holding office as
of June 10, 2020. Said ordinances shall not apply to any newly elected officer
after June 10, 2020;
   P.   Ordinances related to the Village’s participation, or to any of its
employees/officers participation, in any statewide pension fund;
   Q.   Ordinances authorizing or related to the settlement of any litigation;
   R.   Ordinances approving any incentive pertaining to the development of any
property or project;
   S.   Ordinances approving, amending, or pertaining to any intergovernmental
agreement;
   T.   Ordinances approving or adopting any Village policies including, but
not limited to any personnel policy, any investment policy, any employee
expenditure authorization policy, or any fund balance policy;
   U.   Ordinances approving, amending, or pertaining to any employee or
retired employee benefit or insurance plan;
   V.   Ordinances authorizing the pursuit of eminent domain or the Village’s
participation in any court or administrative proceeding;
   W.   Any ordinance not contained in the Village Code which primarily
pertains to the internal operations of the Village, the duties of its employees
or officers, or the Village’s relationships with other governmental bodies or
agencies;
   X.   Ordinances exempting any employee from any other obligation or
requirement of any ordinance;
   Y.   Zoning ordinances, including, but not limited to: ordinances approving
the rezoning of property; ordinances approving special uses; ordinances
approving exceptions to any requirement of the zoning ordinances; ordinances
approving any variation or exception from any sign ordinance; and ordinances
approving any plat, subdivision or resubdivision of property; and
   Z.   Ordinances determining the extent to which any closed meeting minutes
may or may not be released for review by the general public.
(2019 Code)
1-2-2: PROVISIONS PASSED PRIOR TO CODIFICATION AND PRIOR TO ACQUISITION OF HOME
RULE POWERS:
The provisions of this Code which were enacted by the Corporate Authorities
prior to the effective date of the acquisition of home rule powers by the
Village are hereby reaffirmed and reenacted under the increased legislative
power now enjoyed by the Village Board. Each of such ordinance provisions shall
be ratified and reenacted on the effective date hereof in the same manner as if
they were set out in full hereafter. As all other ordinances contained within
the Village Code and passed after the acquisition by the Village of its home
rule powers were passed by a legislative body possessing those powers, the
entire Village Code, as such Code may read from time to time, and such other
ordinances passed after the acquisition of home rule powers which are not
incorporated within this Code, shall all be viewed as the legislative
enactments of a home rule municipality.
(Ord. 75-11-19F, 11-19-1975)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts:
      1.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
(2019 Code)
      2.   Neither the adoption of this Code nor the repeal hereby of any
ordinance of the Village shall in any manner be construed as a waiver of any
license or penalty at the effective date due and unpaid under such ordinances,
nor be construed as affecting any of the provisions of such ordinance relating
to the collection of any such license or penalty or the penal provisions
applicable to any violation thereof, nor to affect the validity of any bond or
cash deposit in lieu thereof, required to be posted, filed or deposited
pursuant to any ordinance, and all rights and obligations thereof appertaining
shall continue in full force and effect.
(1971 Code § 1-10; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Revival Of Ordinances: Whenever any ordinance repealing a former
ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not
be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it
shall be therein so expressly provided.
(1971 Code § 1-10)
   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Village Code.
(2019 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Village Code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
(2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
Section
1-3-1:   General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2:   General Definitions
1-3-3:   Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees may be
fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day
is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is
imposed upon a public officer or employee, the power may be exercised or the
duty may be performed by a designated deputy of such officer or employee or by
a person otherwise duly authorized pursuant to law or ordinance, unless this
Code expressly provides otherwise.
   E.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   F.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   G.   Shall; Must; May: The words “shall” and “must” are mandatory, and the
word “may” is permissive.
   H.   Definitions: Unless expressly otherwise provided, definitions given
within a chapter, article, or section apply only to words or phrases used in
such chapter, article, or section.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Bond: When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient unless otherwise required by State law or in this Code.
   K.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   L.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words “of the Village of Rosemont”.
   M.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   N.   Chapters, Articles, Sections: All references to chapters, articles, or
sections are to the chapters, articles, and sections of this Code unless
otherwise specified.
   O.   Conflicting Provisions:
      1.   If the provisions of different chapters or articles of this Code
conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter or
article shall prevail as to all matters and questions growing out of the
subject matter of that chapter or article.
      2.   If different sections of the same chapter are clearly in conflict,
the provisions of the section which is the latest enacted shall prevail unless
the construction is inconsistent with the meaning of that chapter.
   P.   Ordinance:
      1.   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the Village has
been changed in the content of this Village Code to “title”, “chapter”,
“section” and/or “subsection” or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to Village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
      2.   Any reference in this Code to an ordinance or provision of this Code
shall mean such ordinance or provision as may now exist or as hereafter
amended.
(1971 Code §§ 1-2, 1-4, 1-8, 1-9; amd. 2019 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions shall be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of
the Board of Trustees or the context clearly requires otherwise:
BOARD: The Board of Trustees of the Village of Rosemont.
CODE: The Village Code of the Village of Rosemont.
COUNTY: The County of Cook, State of Illinois.
GOVERNING BODY: The Board of Trustees.
ILCS: Illinois Compiled Statutes.
MAYOR: See definition of VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
MONTH: A calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.
OATH: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words “swear” and “sworn”
shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed”.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenants by the
entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, executor,
administrator, guardian, trustee, agent, organization and any other group
acting as a unit as well as an individual.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes goods and chattel rights and credits, monies and
effects, evidences of debt, choses in action and all written instruments by
which any right to, interest in, or lien or encumbrances upon, property or any
debt or financial obligation as created, acknowledged, evidenced, transferred,
discharged or defeated, in whole or in part, and everything except “real
property” as herein defined which may be the subject of ownership.
PRECEDING; FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
PROPRIETOR: Any person, firm, association, corporation, club, or copartnership,
whether acting by themselves or a servant, agent or employee.
PUBLIC GROUNDS OR PUBLIC PLACES: Any park or open place adjacent thereto, any
lake or stream, any and every public ground, public square, public park, street
or sidewalk, or other public place within the Village.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes land, together with all things attached to the land so
as to become a part thereof and all rights thereto and interests therein.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, or any paved or unpaved walkway, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
SIGNATURE AND SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: Any public way, road, highway, street, court, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, alley, lane, viaduct and bridge.
TENANT; OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
VILLAGE: The Village of Rosemont, County of Cook, State of Illinois.
VILLAGE CLERK OR CLERK: The Village Clerk of the Village of Rosemont.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT OR PRESIDENT: The President of the Board of Trustees. The
President of the Village may also be referred to as “Mayor” of the Village for
all purposes.
(1971 Code § 1-2; amd. Ord. 77-3-2B, 3-2-1977; Ord. 2002-12-4H, 12-4-2002; 2019
Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Village Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4: PENALTIES FOR CODE VIOLATIONS
Section
1-4-1:   General Penalty
1-4-2:   Fines For Provisions Subject To Adjudication
1-4-3:   Application Of Provisions
1-4-4:   Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Whenever, in this Code or in any other ordinance, rule, regulation or
order of the Village, the doing of any act or the omission to do any act or
duty is declared to be a violation thereof, and there is no penalty specially
provided for such violation, any person, firm or corporation who shall be found
guilty of such violation shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each such
violation.
   B.   Each Day A Separate Offense: Each day any violation of this Code or of
any other ordinance of the Village or any rule, regulation or order as
aforesaid shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Recovery Of Collection Costs: In the event a fine, penalty or cost is
assessed pursuant to any provision of this Code and/or any other provision of
any other existing or future ordinance adopted by the Village of Rosemont, any
failure to pay the fine, penalty or cost assessed, or any installment of the
fine, penalty or cost, may result in collection activities by any means
authorized for the collection of monetary judgments or personal liability. The
Village or its designees may retain an attorney and/or private collection
agents for the purpose of collecting the payment of any fine, penalty or cost
due to the Village or any installment of that fine, penalty or cost. Any fees
or costs incurred by the Village for attorneys and/or private collection agents
retained by the Village or their authorized designees shall be charged to the
individual or entity liable for the fine, penalty or cost.
(Ord. 81-7-1A, 7-1-1981; amd. Ord. 2021-2-8A, 2-8-2021; Ord. 2021-4-12B, 4-12-
2021)
1-4-2: FINES FOR PROVISIONS SUBJECT TO ADJUDICATION:
   A.   The following is the schedule of the minimum and maximum fines that may
be imposed for each separate offense in connection with those violations which
are subject to being adjudicated through article A of this chapter, other than
the penalty which may be required to be paid when a vehicle is impounded and
seized pursuant to the provisions of
title 6, chapter 11 of this Code.
Violation Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
Violation                                             Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
1. Illegal parking in a parking space designated for  $100.00      $350.00
use by persons who  have disabilities
2. Illegal use of disability license plate, parking   600.00       600.00
decal or device
3. Illegal parking of a motor vehicle in a fire lane  100.00       250.00
4. Illegal parking of a motor vehicle in proximity to 100.00       250.00
a fire hydrant
5. All other violations involving the illegal parking 35.00        250.00
of a motor vehicle
6. Violations of subsection
6-11-2 B or section                                   25.00        250.00
8-1-1  of this Code
7. Inoperable motor vehicles parked on public or      75.00        500.00
private property
8. Motor vehicles parked within 20' of driveway
entrance to a fire station or on opposite side of     75.00        500.00
street, within 75' of driveway entrance of fire
station
9. Violations of section                              100.00       100.00
8-2A-2  of this Code
10. All other ordinance violations other than those   75.00        750.00
listed in subsections A1-A9 of this section
 
The minimum and maximum fines listed above shall apply whether an ordinance
violation is adjudicated through the administrative adjudicative system
established by article A of this chapter or through the Circuit Court of Cook
County, Illinois.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
   B.   Alleged violations of Village ordinances which are subject to being
adjudicated through the administrative adjudicative system established by
article A of this chapter may be settled or compromised by the defendant or
respondent prior to the first date scheduled for the hearing on the violation
if the violation is to be adjudicated through the administrative adjudicative
system established by article A of this chapter or within ten (10) days after
the issuance of the notice of violation or citation if the violation is to be
adjudicated in the Circuit Court of Cook County, by the payment to the Village
of the sum of money set forth below:
Type Of Violation Alleged Compromise Amount
Type Of Violation Alleged                                     Compromise Amount
1. Illegal parking of motor vehicle in a fire lane            $100.00
2. Illegal parking of a motor vehicle in proximity to a fire  100.00
hydrant
3. All other violations involving the illegal parking of a    25.00
motor vehicle
4. Violations of subsection 6-11-2B or section 8-1-1 of this  25.00
Code
5. Inoperable vehicles parked on public or private property   50.00
6. Motor vehicles parked within 20' of driveway entrance to a
fire station or on opposite side of streets, within 75' of    50.00
driveway entrance of fire station
7. All other ordinance violations other than those listed in  75.00
subsections 1-4-2A1, A2 and A9 above
 
(Ord. 2005-9-7B, 9-7-2005)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Village Code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this Village Code where a duty is
prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Village Code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Village Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed,
but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the
same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Village
Code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(2019 Code)
1-4-4: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this Village Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intent of the Village Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
(2019 Code)
ARTICLE A: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING SYSTEM
Section
1-4A-1:   System Established; Jurisdiction
1-4A-2:   State Regulations Adopted
1-4A-3:   Composition Of System
1-4A-3-1: Hearing Officers
1-4A-3-2: Code Hearing Unit
1-4A-4:   Violation Notice
1-4A-5:   Bail
1-4A-6:   Hearings
1-4A-7:   Judicial Review
1-4A-8:   Debt To Village
1-4A-9:   Enforcement Of Judgments
1-4A-10:   Procedures Not Exclusive
1-4A-1: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION:
   A.   There is hereby established and created within the Village an
administrative hearing system to adjudicate alleged violations (“violations”),
including but not limited to, the following provisions of the Village as the
same have been, and may from time to time hereafter be, amended:
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
      1.   The Village Building Codes (Title 11, sections
11-2-2 and
11-2-3 of this Code), Property Maintenance Code (Section
11-2-4 of this Code), Fire Code (Section
11-2-8 of this Code), Plumbing Code (Section
11-3-1 of this Code), Elevator and Escalator Code (
Title 11, chapter 4 of this Code) and Electrical Code (Section
11-2-5 of this Code).
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   The following provisions of this Code:
         a.   Title 3, “Finances and Taxation”.
         b.   Title 4, “Business And License Regulations”.
         c.   Title 4, chapter 15, article C, “Public Passenger Vehicles”.
         d.   Title 4, chapter 20, article A, “Food Service Sanitation Code”.
         e.   Title 4, chapter 20, article D, “Temporary Food Vendors”.
         f.   Title 5, chapter 3, “Solid Waste Collection And Disposal”.
         g.   Title 5, chapter 4, “Litter Control”.
         h.   Title 5, chapter 5, “Dogs”.
         i.   Title 6, chapter 5, “Animal Control”, including article A.
         j.   Title 6, chapter 101, “Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicles
Involved In Certain Offenses”.
         k.   Title 7, “Morals And Conduct”.
         l.   Title 8, “Motor Vehicles And Traffic”, except chapter 4, “Driving
Rules” and moving violations.
         m.   Title 9, “Public Ways And Property” except “Small Wireless
Facilities” (Chapter 2B). 
         n.   Title 10, chapter 2A, “Cross-Connection Control”.
         o.   Title 11, chapter 2, “Building Codes”.
         p.   Title 11, chapter 3, “Plumbing Code and Regulations”.
      3.   Such other Village ordinances and Code provisions as the Corporate
Authorities of the Village may from time to time designate.
      4.   All ordinances of the Village imposing any tax that is directly
collected by the Village, including, but not limited to: any tax on the
privilege of renting a hotel or motel room (“hotel tax”); any tax on amusements
(“amusement tax”); any tax on the gross receipts of places for eating (“gross
receipts tax”); any parking and garage operations tax (“parking tax”); and any
tax upon the purchase of gasoline (“gas tax”). Upon a determination that any
violation of any of the above tax ordinances has occurred, the Hearing Officer
shall have the jurisdiction to grant any relief provided for in any of the
above tax ordinances including, but not limited to, the imposition of any fine
or monetary penalty, the revocation of any business or other licenses received
from the Village and/or the issuance of an order compelling compliance.
   B.   The provisions of this article shall apply to administrative
adjudication proceedings to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of another Village ordinance or Code which sets forth specific
procedures for the administrative adjudication of particular ordinance or Code
provisions.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004; Ord. 2019-6-12, 6-12-2019)
1-4A-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The provisions of division 2.1 of article 1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes section 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., are hereby adopted and
incorporated into this article as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
1-4A-3: COMPOSITION OF SYSTEM:
The administrative hearing system shall be composed of one or more Hearing
Officers and a Code Hearing Unit, which shall have the power and authority and
limitations as set forth in this article.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
1-4A-3-1: HEARING OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment. The Village President, subject to the advice and consent
of the Village Board of Trustees, shall appoint one or more qualified Hearing
Officers to conduct the adjudicatory hearings (“hearings”) provided under this
article and to otherwise perform the functions of a Hearing Officer as set
forth in this article.
   B.   Independent Contractor; Removal: A Hearing Officer shall be employed as
an independent contractor of the Village and shall not be considered an
employee or officer of the Village. A Hearing Officer may be removed, with or
without cause, by the Village President.
   C.   Qualifications: To qualify as a Hearing Officer, an individual must:
      1.   Be an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for
at least three (3) years;
      2.   Be in good standing with the Illinois Supreme Court Attorney
Registration and Disciplinary Commission;
      3.   Complete a formal training program consisting of:
         a.   Instruction on the rules of procedure for administrative
hearings;
         b.   Orientation to each subject area of the ordinances and codes of
the Village that are subject to administrative adjudication under the
provisions of this article or any other ordinance of the Village;
         c.   Observation of hearings conducted on behalf of the Village and/or
in other Illinois municipalities that have adopted the administrative hearing
system; and
         d.   Participation in hypothetical hearings, including ruling on
evidence and issuing final orders.
   D.   Compensation: A Hearing Officer shall be compensated by the Village at
a rate or in an amount to be determined by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village.
   E.   Powers: Hearing Officers shall have all powers necessary to conduct
fair and impartial hearings including, but limited to, the power to:
      1.   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues;
      2.   Administer oaths and affirmations;
      3.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
allegation of a violation;
      4.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at a hearing, upon the request of the parties of their
representatives;
      5.   Preserve and authenticate the record of a hearing, including all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      6.   Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, on whether a violation occurred or exists; and
      7.   Impose penalties consistent with applicable ordinance or Code
provisions and assess mandatory costs of forty dollars ($40.00) per violation
upon finding a defendant liable for the charged violation; provided, that a
Hearing Officer shall not have the authority to impose a penalty of
incarceration or a fine in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00),
exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance with
the ordinances and codes of the Village. Notwithstanding the foregoing to the
contrary, the fifty thousand dollar ($50,000.00) limitation on the amount of a
fine shall not apply in cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed by
the Village. (Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-1-9, 1-9-2023)
1-4A-3-2: CODE HEARING UNIT:
   A.   Established: A Code Hearing Unit is hereby established within the
Department of Public Safety. The Code Hearing Unit shall consist of the Hearing
Officers, such Department of Public Safety officers and other personnel as may
be assigned to the Code Hearing Unit by the Chief of Public Safety or who are
assigned to perform the duties and exercise the authority and jurisdiction of
the Code Hearing Unit by the Chief of Public Safety and such other employees of
the Village who may be assigned to perform the duties or exercise the authority
and jurisdiction of the Code Hearing Unit by the Village President.
   B.   Authority And Jurisdiction: The Code Hearing Unit is hereby authorized,
empowered, and directed to:
      1.   Recommend rules and regulations reasonably required to manage the
administrative hearing system;
      2.   Adopt, distribute, and process all notices as may be required under
this article or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose of this
article;
      3.   Collect payments made as a result of fines and/or penalties assessed
after a final determination of liability;
      4.   Certify copies of final determinations of violations adjudicated
pursuant to this article, and any factual reports verifying the final
determination of any liability that was issued in accordance with this article
or the laws of the State of Illinois, as from time to time amended; and
      5.   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at hearings,
pleas entered, fines, and other penalties assessed and paid.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
1-4A-4: VIOLATION NOTICE:
   A.   Issuance Of Notice:
      1.   A notice of any violation ("violation notice") shall be issued by
the persons authorized under this article, shall contain information as to the
type and nature of the violation to be adjudicated, shall be certified, and
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation described in the notice.
A notice of violation must state the date and location of the hearing to be
conducted pursuant to this article, the legal authority and jurisdiction under
which the hearing is to be conducted, and the penalties for failure to appear
at the hearing.
      2.   All regular and auxiliary public safety officers, the Village Public
Health and Business License Officer, the Village Public Works Director, the
Village Finance Director, and any persons who are authorized to issue violation
notices pursuant to contract or the designation of the Village Director of
Public Safety, the Village Public Health and Business License Officer, the
Village Public Works Director, or the Village Finance Director, shall have the
authority to issue violation notices.
      3.   Any individual authorized to issue violation notices who detects or
observes a violation is authorized to issue a violation notice for the
violation and shall serve the violation notice, or cause the violation notice
to be served, in the manner set forth in subsection B of this section.
      4.   The accuracy of facts contained in any violation notice shall be
certified by the person issuing the notice through signing his or her name to
the violation notice at the time of issuance.
      5.   The Code Hearing Unit shall retain the original or a facsimile of
the violation notice and keep it as a record in the ordinary course of
business.
      6.   The violation notice or copy thereof shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or judicial proceeding to the extent permitted by
law.
   B.   Service Of Notice; Hearing Scheduled:
      1.   Service of any violation notice shall be made as follows:
         a.   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee of
the motor vehicle, if present; or
         b.   Handing the notice to the person responsible for the violation;
or
         c.   Mailing the notice by certified mail to the person responsible
for the violation; or
         d.   Posting the notice on property where a violation occurred,
provided the violation occurred as a result of a condition of the property or
an activity that occurred on the property and the party to be notified is the
owner or manager of the property.
      2.   If service of notice is provided by mail for any violation notice or
for any notice of a hearing, said service shall be deemed sent and shall be
complete on the date the notice is deposited, postage prepaid, in the United
States mail. The counting of any time period as set forth in this Code shall
begin to run on the date the notice is deposited, postage prepaid, in the
United States mail.
      3.   A hearing on an alleged violation shall be scheduled with reasonable
promptness; provided, that for hearings scheduled for a violation where the
continuing existence of the violation or failure to take action to correct a
violation does not reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest,
safety or welfare, the defendant or respondent shall have at least fifteen (15)
days after service of the violation notice to prepare for the hearing if the
defendant or respondent requests.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2022-9-12A, 9-12-2022)
1-4A-5: BAIL:
   A.   Any person authorized to issue a violation notice under the provisions
of subsection
1-4A-4A2 of this article may require the defendant or respondent to post bail
at the time the violation notice is served, if: 1) the violation notice is
served by handing the violation notice to the defendant or respondent; and 2)
the person issuing the violation notice has reason to believe that the
defendant or respondent may not appear for the hearing on the violation
specified in the violation notice. Reasons to believe that a defendant or
respondent may not appear at the hearing on a violation shall include, but not
be limited to: 1) the defendant or respondent residing outside the Village
corporate limits and not being employed or having a place of business in the
Village; and 2) the defendant or respondent having failed to appear for a
hearing on prior occasions on the same or a different violation.
   B.   Where bail is required to be posted, the bail shall be in the form of
cash or a cash bond. For purposes of this article, cash or cash bond shall mean
United States currency; traveler’s checks issued by major banks or express
companies which, alone or in combination with currency, total the exact amount
required to be deposited as bail; and negotiable drafts on major credit card
companies, under conditions approved by the Chief of Public Safety or such
person as may be designated by the Chief of Public Safety to have the authority
to approve or establish the conditions for the acceptance of negotiable drafts
on credit card companies.
   C.   Bail shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for offenses other than
offenses related to the parking of motor vehicles or violations of subsection
6-11-2B or section
8-1-1 of this Code. Bail for offenses related to the illegal parking of a motor
vehicle shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00); except, that bail for a
violation related to the illegal parking of a motor vehicle in a fire lane, the
illegal parking of a motor vehicle in proximity to a fire hydrant or the
illegal parking of a motor vehicle in a parking space designated for persons
who are handicapped or have a disability shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00). Any bail that may be required where a motor vehicle is seized and
impounded pursuant to the provisions of title 6, chapter 10 of this Code shall
be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any bond that may be required to be
posted under the provisions of said
title 6, chapter 11. Bail for violations of subsection
6-11-2B or section
8-1-1 of this Code shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. 2011-10-12M. 10-12-2011)
   D.   The Village Public Safety Department shall charge a bail processing fee
as set forth by the Cook County Circuit Court, to each person that is released
on bail following an arrest for violating any bailable Municipal, State or
Federal offense. However, the release of any individual on bail shall not be
denied solely because of the individual's inability to pay the bail processing
fee.
(Ord. 2011-10-12L, 10-12-2011)
1-4A-6: HEARINGS:
All hearings conducted under the administrative hearing system shall be
conducted by a Hearing Officer and shall be conducted in accordance with the
following rules and procedures:
   A.   A record of the hearing shall be made by tape recording or other
appropriate means.
   B.   The parties may be represented by counsel, present witnesses, and cross
examine opposing witnesses.
   C.   The Hearing Officer may grant continuances upon a finding of good
cause.
   D.   All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
   E.   Parties may request the Hearing Officer to issue, and the Hearing
Officer shall have the authority to issue, subpoenas to direct the attendance
and testimony of relevant witnesses and produce relevant documents.
   F.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply. Evidence,
including hearsay evidence, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly
relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   G.   In a hearing on the propriety of the seizure and impoundment of a
vehicle, any sworn or affirmed report citation or ticket that: 1) is prepared
in the performance of a law enforcement officer's duties; and 2) sufficiently
describes the circumstances leading to the impoundment, shall be admissible
evidence of the vehicle owner's liability, unless rebutted by clear and
convincing evidence.
   H.   Each hearing shall culminate in a determination of liability or
nonliability by the Hearing Officer or a determination of liability based upon
the failure of the defendant or respondent to appear at the hearing. The
Hearing Officer’s determination shall be in writing and shall include a written
finding of fact, decision, and order, including the fine, penalty, or other
action with which the defendant or respondent must comply.
   I.   The Hearing Officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess
fines and penalties in accordance with the fine and penalty that is applicable
under the codes and ordinances of the Village for the violation that occurred.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
1-4A-7: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a Hearing Officer that a violation does or does not exist
shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review and
shall be subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law (735
ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) as provided in section 1-2.1-7 of the Illinois Municipal
Code.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
1-4A-8: DEBT TO VILLAGE:
Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or penalty assessed in accordance with
the provisions of this article and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or
the failure to exhaust, administrative procedures under this article, and the
conclusion of any judicial review procedures, shall be a debt due and owing the
Village, and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
1-4A-9: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS:
   A.   After expiration of the period that judicial review under the Illinois
Administrative Review Law maybe sought for a final determination of any
violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
determination, including the findings, decision, and order, of the Hearing
Officer, may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   B.   In any case in which a defendant or respondent has failed to comply
with a judgment ordering a defendant to correct a violation or imposing any
fine or other sanction as a result of a violation, any expenses incurred by the
Village to enforce the judgment including, but not limited to, attorney fees,
court costs and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure, after they
are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a Hearing Officer, shall be a
debt due and owing the Village and may be collected in accordance with
applicable law.
   C.   Prior to any expenses being fixed by the Hearing Officer pursuant to
subsection B of this section, the Village shall provide a notice to the
defendant or respondent that states that the defendant or respondent shall
appear at a hearing before the Hearing Officer to determine whether the
defendant or respondent has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice
shall set the date for such hearing that shall not be less than seven (7) days
from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7)
day period shall begin to run on the date that the notice is deposited in the
mail.
   D.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article XII of the
Illinois Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.), or by the Uniform
Commercial Code (810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.), a lien shall be imposed on the real
estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant or respondent in the
amount of any debt due and owing the Village under section 1-4A-8 of this
article. This lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien
pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   E.   A Hearing Officer may set aside any judgement entered by default and
set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of the determination or order of default, if the Hearing Officer
determines that a defendant's or respondent's failure to appear at the hearing
was for good cause or at any time if the defendant or respondent establishes
that the Village did not provide proper service of process. If any judgement is
set aside pursuant to this subsection, the Hearing Officer shall enter an order
extinguishing or releasing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due
and owing the Village as a result of the vacated default judgment.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
1-4A-10: PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this article shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of the codes and
ordinances of the Village specified in subsection 1-4A-1A of this article
including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit
Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which has
jurisdiction to consider the violation.
(Ord. 2004-12-1F, 12-1-2004)
CHAPTER 5: OFFICIAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Section
1-5-1:   Corporate Seal
1-5-2:   Inauguration Of Elected Officials
1-5-3:   English Language Required For Documents
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Description: The Corporate Seal of the Village shall be circular in
form, and be so constructed as to impress upon paper the words “Official Seal”,
in a circle formed by the words “Village of Rosemont, Cook County, Illinois.”
(1971 Code § 2-1)
   B.   Use And Custody: The Seal shall be and remain in the custody of the
Village Clerk, and his successor in office, to be used by him in all cases
provided in this Code and the ordinances of the Village or the laws of the
State of Illinois, and in all such other cases where, by the laws and customs
of the State or Nation, the use of the Corporate Seal of the Village becomes
necessary.
(1971 Code § 2-2)
1-5-2: INAUGURATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS:
The date and time for the inauguration of newly elected Municipal officers of
the Village shall be the first regular meeting of the Village Board of Trustees
during the month of May next following the proclamation of the results of the
general Municipal election at which such officers were elected, and the terms
of office of such officers shall commence from and after such inauguration. In
the event that the proclamation of the results of such general Municipal
election has not been received prior to the first regular meeting of the
Village Board of Trustees during the month of May next following such election,
the date and time for the inauguration of such Municipal officers shall be the
first regular or special meeting of the Village Board of Trustees during the
month of June next following receipt of the proclamation of the results of the
general Municipal election at which such officers were elected, and the terms
of such officers shall commence from and after such inauguration.
(Ord. 2012-10-10, 10-10-2012)
1-5-3: ENGLISH LANGUAGE REQUIRED FOR DOCUMENTS:
All notices, reports, statements, applications and records required or
authorized by this Code shall be made in writing in the English language,
unless specifically provided otherwise.
(1971 Code § 1-14)
CHAPTER 6: VILLAGE PRESIDENT
Section
1-6-1:   Elected Official
1-6-2:   Bond And Oath
1-6-3:   Compensation
1-6-4:   Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
1-6-5:   Responsibilities Regarding Appointive Officials
1-6-6:   Serve As Local Liquor Control Commissioner
1-6-7:   Acting President
1-6-8:   Administrative Aide
1-6-1: ELECTED OFFICIAL:
The President of the Board of Trustees shall be elected for a four (4) year
term by the electors of the Village at a general Municipal election held
therein and shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified as
provided by statute.
(1971 Code § 2-8)
1-6-2: BOND AND OATH:
   A.   Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President shall give
bond as provided in section 1-9-2 of this title.
(1971 Code § 2-11; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The President shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute.
(1971 Code § 2-11; amd. 2019 Code)
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The Village President shall be paid an annual salary as determined from
time to time by the Corporate Authorities.
   B.   In addition to the amount provided in subsection A of this section, the
Village President shall also be paid a salary at the annual rate for serving as
the Village Local Liquor Control Commissioner as determined from time to time
by the Corporate Authorities.
(Ord. 2016-8-10F, 8-10-2016)
1-6-4: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The Village President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
Village and shall exercise all such powers and duties as may be provided by
statute or by this Code or by ordinance.
   B.   The Village President shall have supervision over all of the executive
officers of the Village, and shall have the power and authority to inspect all
books and records kept by any officer of the Village at any reasonable time.
(1971 Code § 2-9)
   C.   The Village President shall also have the following responsibilities:
      1.   To assist in the preparation of the Village annual budget for
Village operations and recommend capital programs, and direct the
implementation of the approved budget after adoption.
      2.   To recommend the necessary appropriations and levies to the Board of
Trustees.
      3.   To establish the agenda for all meetings of the Village Board of
Trustees.
      4.   To review and recommend necessary purchases for the Village.
      5.   To monitor the financial condition and needs of the Village.
      6.   To recommend the measures he deems necessary for the improvement of
the administrative services of the Village or in the best interests of the
Village.
      7.   To coordinate the functions of the various departments, committees,
officers and employees of the Village, and such other department heads or
appointed officers as have been or are hereafter created to ensure that all
Village business is accomplished efficiently and economically.
      8.   To direct and oversee the proper administration of the affairs of
the Village and policies adopted by the Board of Trustees.
      9.   To propose such personnel rules and regulations as deemed necessary
to manage the personnel of the Village. These rules may cover procedures and
policies which may include, but are necessarily limited to, the following:
         a.   The administration of the position description, classification
and pay plans.
         b.   Recruitment, selection, promotion, evaluation, transfer,
discipline and separation of Village personnel.
         c.   Establishment of hours of work, attendance, leave regulations and
working conditions.
      10.   To recommend the creating, consolidating, and combining of offices,
positions, departments or units of the administrative and executive departments
of the Village as deemed necessary for the efficient operation of all of the
Village services and activities.
      11.   To investigate, develop and promote new economic development
opportunities for the Village and negotiate and recommend economic development
agreements deemed to be in the Village’s best interest.
      12.   To oversee Village construction projects in conjunction with the
Village Engineer and other professional consultants and serve as the Village
representative for such projects.
      13.   To represent the Village in its dealings with other governmental
agencies and officials, businesses, not for profit organizations, residents,
and the general public as necessary.
      14.   To evaluate Village projects, programs, agreements and services and
make recommendations on modifications and improvements thereto.
      15.   To serve as the Village Local Liquor Control Commissioner in
accordance with all related Village ordinances governing liquor and related
State laws.
      16.   To perform all other powers granted to village presidents and
mayors by law and to faithfully and honestly discharge the duties and powers
associated with such office.
(Ord. 2016-8-10F, 8-10-2016)
1-6-5: RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING APPOINTIVE OFFICIALS:
   A.   The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, all officers of the Village whose appointment or election is
not otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in appointive offices shall
be filled in the same manner.
   B.   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of
any officer of the Village, this dispute shall be settled by the President
after consultation with the Village Attorney.
   C.   The President shall have the power to delegate to any officer any duty
which is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform
that duty.
(1971 Code § 2-10)
1-6-6: SERVE AS LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The Village President shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall
perform all such duties as may be required of him in that capacity by statute
or this Code.
(1971 Code § 2-12; amd. 2019 Code)
1-6-7: ACTING PRESIDENT:
Whenever any power shall be vested in the Village President or he shall be
required to do any act, or perform any executive function, in his absence, it
shall be the duty of the Acting President, for the time being, to exercise such
power and perform such act or executive function as fully as if especially
named in this Code or in an ordinance, unless it shall be therein otherwise
expressly provided.
(1971 Code § 2-13)
1-6-8: ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE:
   A.   Position Created: The position of Administrative Aide to the Mayor is
hereby created. The Administrative Aide to the Mayor shall report directly to
and take direction from the Mayor.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the
Administrative Aide to the Mayor shall include the following:
      1.   Assist the Mayor as requested by the Mayor in administering and
managing the operations of the Village.
      2.   At the direction of the Mayor, undertake to implement decisions made
by the Mayor and decisions made by the Village Board of Trustees.
      3.   When appropriate, provide recommendations to the Mayor as to how the
operations and management of the Village may be made more efficient.
      4.   Undertake to perform such assignments and projects as may be
requested by the Mayor.
      5.   Perform such other tasks as may be assigned or directed by the
Mayor.
   C.    Employee Of Village: The position of Administrative Aide to the Mayor
shall not be an office of the Village. The person who occupies the position of
Administrative Aide to the Mayor may be an employee of the Village or an
independent contractor.
   D.   Compensation: If the Administrative Aide to the Mayor is a Village
employee, then the salary and other compensation to be paid to the
Administrative Aide shall be established from time to time by the Corporate
Authorities of the Village. If the Administrative Aide to the Mayor is an
independent contractor, then the salary and other compensation to be paid to
the Administrative Aide shall be established by contract.
(Ord. 2006-6-7G, 6-7-2006)
CHAPTER 7: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
1-7-1:   Elected Officials; Terms
1-7-2:   Oath And Salary
1-7-3:   Meetings And Rules
1-7-4:   Powers And Duties
1-7-5:   Ordinances
1-7-6:   Eminent Domain Powers
1-7-1: ELECTED OFFICIALS; TERMS:
The Board of Trustees shall consist of six (6) members elected for a four (4)
year term by the electors of the Village at a general Municipal election held
therein and shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified as
provided by statute.
(1971 Code § 2-16)
1-7-2: OATH AND SALARY
 
   A.   Oath Of Office: The members of the Board of Trustees, before entering
upon the duties of their office, shall take the oath of office prescribed by
statute.
(Ord. 75-4-16, 4-16-1975)
   B.   Salary: The Village Trustees that serve in a term of office as Village
Trustee that begins after the election held in April 2013 shall continue to be
paid a salary at the annual rate of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00).
(Ord. 2012-11-7, 11-7-2012)
1-7-3: MEETINGS AND RULES:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the Village Board of Trustees
shall be held on the second Wednesday of each calendar month at nine thirty
o'clock (9:30) A.M. unless otherwise ordered at a regular meeting, as provided
by the Illinois Open Meeting Act.
(Ord. 76-3-17D, 3-17-1976)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held at any time on call of
the President or of any three (3) or more Trustees. Such call shall be in
writing, duly signed, and shall be presented to the Village Clerk, who shall
immediately proceed to prepare notices of the same, and shall cause them to be
served on the members of the Board in the usual manner.
(1971 Code § 2-14)
   C.   Procedure At Meetings; Rules Of Order; Quorum; Order Of Business:
      1.   Robert’s Rules of Order shall prevail except where otherwise
provided.
      2.   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Village Clerk (or someone
appointed to fill his place) shall proceed to call the roll of the members,
mark the absentees and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is
present, the meeting shall be called to order, the President taking the Chair,
if present, and the Board appointing a Temporary Chair if he should be absent.
If a quorum does not appear, the meeting shall not thereby stand adjourned,
unless by a vote of the members present. When a quorum is present, the meeting
shall proceed to the business before it, which shall be conducted in the
following order:
      3.   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be opened
by the Chair, without debate, subject to appeal.
(1971 Code § 2-15)
1-7-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Trustees shall be the legislative body of the Village and shall
perform all such powers and duties as may be provided by statute or by this
Code or by ordinance.
(1971 Code § 2-17)
1-7-5: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Publication And Records: All ordinances passed by the President and
Board of Trustees shall be recorded by the Village Clerk in a book kept for
Village ordinances. The original shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk, and
due proof of publication of all ordinances requiring publication shall be
procured by the Clerk. Such proof or affidavit of publication shall be attached
to and filed away with the ordinances, and the Clerk shall also note on the
book of ordinances, at the foot of the record of each ordinance, a memorandum
of the date of the passage of and, if published or posted, the date of the
publication or posting of the ordinance.
(1971 Code § 1-5)
   B.   Effective Date: All ordinances passed by the President and Board of
Trustees requiring publication shall take effect after due publication thereof,
as required by law or as otherwise determined in the ordinance. Ordinances not
requiring publication shall take effect from and after their passage, unless
otherwise provided therein.
(1971 Code § 1-6)
1-7-6: EMINENT DOMAIN POWERS:
   A.   Exercise Of Powers Generally:
      1.   The Corporate Authorities may exercise their power of eminent domain
to condemn property for any public purpose. The Corporate Authorities may
exercise their condemnation power for any public purpose authorized to the
Municipal Corporation by statute or any other public purpose which will be
useful, advantageous or desirable within its home rule powers as established by
ordinance. The Corporate Authorities shall commence such condemnation by an
ordinance or resolution which shall state the purpose or purposes for which the
property is to be acquired and shall be used.
      2.   A public purpose shall exist if the property, after its acquisition,
is useful, advantageous or desirable for Municipal purposes.
(1971 Code § 2-114)
   B.   Procedures: In all cases where property is acquired or sought to be
acquired by condemnation, the procedure shall be like that provided in the
Eminent Domain Act, as amended (735 ILCS 30/1-1-1 et seq.)
(1971 Code § 2-115; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 8: VILLAGE CLERK
Section
1-8-1:   Elected Official; Oath Of Office
1-8-2:   Bond
1-8-3:   Salary
1-8-4:   Duties
1-8-5:   Vacancy In Office
1-8-6:   Deputy Clerk
1-8-1: ELECTED OFFICIAL; OATH OF OFFICE:
The Village Clerk shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and shall take
the statutory oath of office.
(1971 Code § 2-19)
1-8-2: BOND:
The Village Clerk shall give a bond, with security to be approved by the Board
of Trustees, as provided by law, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his/her duties.
(1971 Code § 2-19)
1-8-3: SALARY:
The Village Clerk shall be paid an annual salary as determined from time to
time by the Corporate Authorities. This salary shall be in addition to any
salary that is also received for the position as Village Collector.
(Ord. 2016-8-10F, 8-10-2016)
1-8-4: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to:
   A.   Attend the special and stated meetings of the Board of Trustees and
keep a full record of its proceedings in the journal, and record in a book to
be kept for that purpose, all ordinances which may be passed from time to time
by the Board, and at the foot of the record of each ordinance so recorded, make
a memorandum of the date of the passage and of the publishing of such
ordinance.
   B.   Keep and preserve all papers required by statute to be retained in his
office. The office shall be at the general offices of the Village.
   C.   Notify all officers and employees appointed by the President of their
appointment.
   D.   Have the charge, custody and control of the Corporate Seal.
(Ord. 75-9-17E, 9-17-1975)
1-8-5: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In the case the office of the Village Clerk shall become vacant for any reason,
and there remains an unexpired portion of the term of at least twenty eight
(28) months, and the vacancy occurs at least one hundred thirty (130) days
before the next general municipal election, then the vacancy shall be filled
for the remainder of the term at that general municipal election. Until said
election, or if the vacancy occurs with less than twenty eight (28) months
remaining or less than one hundred thirty (130) days before the next general
municipal election, the Village President shall appoint a qualified person as
Village Clerk to hold the office until it is filled by election, subject to the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(1971 Code § 2-20)
1-8-6: DEPUTY CLERK:
The Village Clerk may appoint, with the approval of the President and Board of
Trustees, such Deputy Clerk or Clerks as may be necessary.
(1971 Code § 2-19)
CHAPTER 9: VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section
1-9-1:   Residency Requirements Of Full-Time Officers And Employees
1-9-2:   Bond Requirements
1-9-3:   Appointment Of Previously Elected Officials To Appointive Positions
1-9-1: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS FOR FULL-TIME OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Each person hired as a full-time employee or appointed to be a full-
time officer of the Village must, within ninety (90) days of the date he or she
first takes office or is first employed as a full-time officer or employee,
establish and thereafter maintain his or her primary residency within the
corporate limits of the Village, as a continuing condition of such employment
or office; provided, that if the Mayor finds that compliance with the
requirement that residency within the Village be established within ninety (90)
days of the date a person is first employed or first takes office as a full-
time employee or officer would impose a substantial hardship on a person who is
hired to serve as a department head or in another supervisory capacity, either:
1) because it is necessary for such person to sell his or her current residence
in order to reasonably be able to afford to purchase a residence within the
Village; 2) because it would disrupt the education of such a person's child
because the child would have to transfer schools when residency is established
in the Village; or 3) because of a reason that would impose an equivalent
hardship, then the Mayor may extend the time period within which such person
must establish residency within the Village to a date that is not more than
thirty-six (36) months after the date the person first takes office or is first
employed as a full-time officer or employee. Any such extension granted by the
Mayor must be made in writing.
   B.   Each present full-time employee and each present full-time officer of
the Village who, on the effective date hereof, resides within the corporate
limits of the Village, must maintain his or her residence within the corporate
limits of the Village, as a continuing condition of such employment or office.
   C.   For purposes of this section, a person's residence is within the
Village if he or she is an actual bona fide resident of the Village with a
permanent abode therein.
   D.   Noncompliance or violation of the residence requirements set forth in
this section shall constitute grounds for immediate discharge from the service
and employment of the Village.
   E.   The residence requirements imposed by this section do not apply to any
full-time employee or full- time officer of the Village who, on the effective
date hereof, resides outside of the corporate limits of the Village, or to
part-time employees, part-time appointed officers, independent contractors, and
persons who, while performing services for the Village, are actually employed
by another governmental unit or private organization.
   F.   If the Corporate Authorities find that because a position or office
requires specialized technical or professional training, it is not possible to
fill the position or office with a person who is or who will become a resident
of the Village as required by subsection A of this section, the Corporate
Authorities may, by motion, provide that the officer or employee who is
appointed to the office or hired to fill the position shall not be required to
establish residency within the Village as required by said subsection A.
   G.   If the Corporate Authorities find it is not possible to fill an office
or a position with a person who is or who will become a resident of the Village
as required by subsection A of this section, the Corporate Authorities may, by
motion, authorize the employment of a temporary employee or the appointment of
a temporary officer to fill the position or office for a period not to exceed
Thirty-six months. Persons appointed to be temporary employees or temporary
officers pursuant to this subsection shall not be required to be residents of
the Village as a continuing condition of such employment or office.
   H.   If the Corporate Authorities of the Village find that because of an
employee's or officer's experience, knowledge and expertise, it is in the best
interests of the Village to retain a full-time employee or officer who is
otherwise eligible to retire, then the Corporate Authorities may, by motion,
permit such a full-time employee or officer of the Village to establish
residency outside the Village; provided, that the employee or officer: 1) has
been employed by the Village for not less than twenty five (25) years; and 2)
is eligible to receive retirement benefits from either the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund or the Village Public Safety Officers' Pension Fund.
   I.   The residency requirements imposed by this section shall be suspended
with respect to any full-time civilian employees of the Department of Public
Safety who are members of the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund and who have
been continuously employed for a period of not less than ten (10) years as
full-time employees of the Village in the Department of Public Safety. The
exceptions from the residency requirement for full-time officers and full-time
employees of the Village stated in this subsection shall terminate
automatically should any such employee or officer subsequently move from his or
her established residency location outside the Village in effect as of the
effective date hereof for any purpose other than immediately establishing a
permanent and full-time residency in the Village. Each such full-time employee
or officer shall, within thirty (30) days of the effective date hereof, submit
a written resignation to the Village; provided, that he or she voluntarily
resigns his or her employment or office with the Village effective immediately
upon any change in the grandfathered residency provided in this section, other
than for the purpose of the immediate establishment of a permanent and full-
time residency in the Village.
   J.   The residency requirements imposed by this section shall be suspended
with respect to any full-time treasurers, full-time assistant treasurers and
full-time ticket sellers working at the Allstate Arena and the Rosemont Theatre
who: 1) as of the effective date hereof, had been continuously employed in such
capacity for a period of not less than one year as the employees of an
independent contractor performing contractual services for the Village under a
multi-year agreement prior to the effective date hereof; and 2) who were
subsequently transferred to direct employment with the Village to continue
performing such services as Village employees.
(Ord. 78-1-18A, 1-18-1978; Ord. 2003-4-2L, 4-2-2003; Ord. 2005-1-12L, 1-12-
2005; Ord. 2013-6-12E, 6-12-2013; Ord. 2014-2-12F, 2-12-2014; Ord. 2021-9-13D,
9-13-2021)
1-9-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
The Village President and Village Finance Director shall be required to execute
a bond with security to be approved by the Corporate Authorities, as provided
by law, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of their
respective offices. Such bonds shall be filed with the Village Clerk. The
premium for such bonds shall be paid by the Village.
(Ord. 82-5-19, 5-19-1982)
1-9-3: APPOINTMENT OF PREVIOUSLY ELECTED OFFICIALS TO APPOINTIVE POSITIONS:
Any elector within the Village who is otherwise qualified to hold an appointed
Municipal office or employment may accept or be appointed to such Municipal
office or employment by the Village President as hereinafter provided in spite
of the fact that his service in such Municipal appointed office or employment
shall commence or continue during a portion of the term of office as a member
of the Board of Trustees for which he was elected and in which he would have
served but for his resignation. In the event the Village President desires to
appoint a former Village Trustee to an appointive office or employment within
the Village during the unexpired portion of the term of office for which the
Trustee was elected, the appointment must be approved by the vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the remaining members of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 75-5-7G, 5-7-1975)
ARTICLE A:  FINANCE DIRECTOR
Section
1-9A-1:   Office Created; Appointment; Oath
1-9A-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; OATH:
There shall be the office of Finance Director. The Finance Director shall be
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. Before entering upon the duties of his office, he shall take the
statutory oath.
(1971 Code § 2-37)
ARTICLE B: VILLAGE COLLECTOR
Section
1-9B-1:   Office Created; Appointment
1-9B-2:   Salary
1-9B-3:   Duties
1-9B-4:   Village Clerk May Serve As; Compensation
1-9B-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
The office of Village Collector shall be and hereby is created. The Village
Collector shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 89-3-1G, 3-1-1989)
1-9B-2: SALARY:
The salary for the Village Collector shall be as set forth in the Village
Salary Schedule.
(Ord. 89-3-1G, 3-1-1989)
1-9B-3: DUTIES:
The Village Collector shall perform such duties as provided by law, as may be
provided by the ordinances of the Village and as may be assigned by the Village
President.
(Ord. 89-3-1G, 3-1-1989)
1-9B-4: VILLAGE CLERK MAY SERVE AS; COMPENSATION:
The Village Clerk may be appointed to the office of Village Collector. Where
the same person holds the elective office of Village Clerk and the appointive
office of Village Collector, such person shall receive the compensation
provided for each of these offices.
(Ord. 89-3-1G, 3-1-1989)
ARTICLE C: VILLAGE ATTORNEY
Section
1-9C-1:   Office Created; Appointment
1-9C-2:   Compensation
1-9C-3:   Powers And Duties
1-9C-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There shall be the office of Village Attorney, such attorney to be appointed by
the President, with the advice of the Board of Trustees, in the same manner and
form as that of appointments of other appointive officers of the Village.
(1971 Code § 2-42)
1-9C-2: COMPENSATION:
The Village Attorney shall receive such compensation for his ordinary and
routine services as may be set from time to time by the Board of Trustees, and
he shall receive additional compensation for services rendered in connection
with special assessment and for condemnation proceedings, litigated matters,
general obligation bond issues, revenue bond issues, the preparation and
drafting of involved ordinances or resolutions, the revising of ordinances or
the preparation of a code of ordinances, or other matter requiring an unusual
amount of time or services.
(1971 Code § 2-44)
1-9C-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Village Attorney shall act as Attorney for the Village in
connection with all legal matters pertaining thereto, including attendance at
regular and special meetings of the President and Board of Trustees when
requested to do so, preparation and drafting of ordinances and resolutions,
rendering services in litigated matters, general obligation bond issues, revise
ordinances and act as attorney in connection with all special assessment and
condemnation proceedings to be instituted by the Village.
   B.   The Village Attorney shall consult with and advise any officer or
representative of the Village in connection with Municipal problems and matters
and shall render other legal services when requested so to do by the Board of
Trustees, or any officer or representative of the Village.
   C.   The Village Attorney shall have complete charge of any proceeding or
legal matter referred to him, subject to the control and direction of the Board
of Trustees.
   D.   The Village Attorney is authorized to enter his appearance in and to
take charge of all proceedings now pending or which may hereafter be pending,
including special assessment and/or condemnation proceedings, in which the
Village is a party, in all courts of record in the State of Illinois, and
before all commissions, boards or judicial bodies.
(1971 Code § 2-43)
ARTICLE D: DIRECTOR OF THE HEALTH AND LICENSING DEPARTMENT
Section
1-9D-1:   Office Created; Appointment
1-9D-2:   Qualifications
1-9D-3:   Compensation
1-9D-4:   Duties And Responsibilities
1-9D-5:   Enforcement Authority
1-9D-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
The office of Director of the Health and Licensing Department is hereby
created. The Village President shall appoint the Director, subject to the
advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2002-12-4H, 12-4-2002)
1-9D-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The person appointed to serve as Director of the Health and Licensing
Department must be licensed as an Environmental Health Inspector as provided by
and in accordance with “An Act Regulating the Occupation of Environmental
Health Practitioners (225 ILCS 37/5 et seq.)” and shall possess all other
licenses which may be required in order to perform the duties of Director.
(Ord. 2002-12-4H, 12-4-2002)
1-9D-3: COMPENSATION:
The salary and other compensation to be paid to the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department shall be established from time to time by the Corporate
Authorities of the Village.
(Ord. 2002-12-4H, 12-4-2002)
1-9D-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The duties and responsibilities of the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Enforce the Village ordinances, rules and regulations that are intended
to maintain or protect the public health including, but not limited to,
ordinances, rules and regulations which relate to sanitation; the storage,
preparation and sale of food and beverages; garbage and trash storage and
disposal; and rodent control.
   B.   Enforce the Village ordinances, rules and regulations that are intended
to prohibit the creation or maintenance of conditions that constitute public
nuisances.
   C.   Enforce the Village ordinances, rules and regulations that provide for
the licensing and regulating of businesses in the Village, except to the extent
that such enforcement has been assigned by ordinance or by the Village
President to another Village department or officer.
   D.   Enforce rules and regulations promulgated by the Illinois Department of
Public Health to the extent that the Village has the authority to enforce such
rules and regulations.
   E.   Conduct inspections of public and private property for the purpose of
determining whether there are violations of applicable ordinances, rules or
regulations of the Village relating to the maintenance and protection of the
public health, the prohibition of nuisances, the regulation of businesses, and
for the purpose of determining whether there are violations of the rules and
regulations of the Illinois Department of Public Health which the Village has
the authority to enforce.
   F.   Make recommendations to the Corporate Authorities relating to the
adoption and revision of ordinances, codes, rules and regulations that are
intended to maintain and protect the public health or prevent the maintenance
or creation of conditions that constitute public nuisances.
   G.   Undertake programs intended to educate the public regarding public
health matters, and where a public health hazard or other problem is found to
exist in the Village, to undertake programs designed to educate the public
regarding the existence of the hazard or other problem and the steps that can
be taken to protect against the hazard or other problem.
   H.   Such other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned or designated
by the Village President or the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
(Ord. 2002-12-4H, 12-4-2002)
1-9D-5: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall have the authority
to:
   A.   Issue citations and sign complaints on behalf of the Village for
violation of Village ordinances, codes, rules and regulations relating to the
maintenance or protection of the public health, the prohibition of nuisances,
the licensing and regulation of businesses, or which otherwise relate to the
performance of his duties and responsibilities.
   B.   Issue citations and sign complaints on behalf of the Village for
violation of those rules and regulations of the Illinois Department of Public
Health which the Village has the authority to enforce.
   C.   Apply for warrants whenever necessary in order to be able to conduct an
inspection of private property.
(Ord. 2002-12-4H, 12-4-2002)
CHAPTER 10: VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
Section
1-10A-1:   Department Created; Composition
1-10A-2:   Director Of Public Works
1-10A-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There shall be the Department of Public Works, an administrative department of
the Village. The department shall consist of a Director of Public Works and
such assistants and employees as may be provided by ordinance.
(1971 Code § 2-51)
1-10A-2: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
   A.   Appointment: The President and the Board of Trustees shall appoint the
Director of Public Works who shall observe, obey and carry out the orders and
directions of the President and the Board of Trustees.
(1971 Code § 22-12)
   B.   Compensation: The Director of Public Works shall receive such
compensation as the Board may from time to time designate.
(1971 Code § 2-54)
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The Director of Public Works shall have charge of and superintend
the repairing of all public improvements and shall have power, subject to this
Code and the ordinances of the Village, to regulate and control the manner of
using streets, alleys, highways. and public places, and shall cause the prompt
repairing of streets, alleys, highways, and public places wherever such
repairing shall become necessary.
      2.   The Director shall have special charge and superintendence of all
streets, alleys, lanes and highways of the Village and of all walks and
crosswalks, subject to the direction and control of the Board of Trustees.
(1971 Code § 2-53)
   D.   Supplies: The Village Clerk shall furnish the Director of Public Works
with the necessary stationery and application blanks for the proper conduct of
his office.
(1971 Code § 2-55)
ARTICLE B: ROSEMONT CONVENTION AND TOURISM BUREAU
Section
1-10B-1:   Declared A Village Department
1-10B-2:   Purpose And Function
1-10B-3:   General Manager Of Bureau
1-10B-1: DECLARED A VILLAGE DEPARTMENT:
The Rosemont Convention and Tourism Bureau is hereby declared to be a
department of the Village.
(Ord. 84-11-7B, 11-7-1984)
1-10B-2: PURPOSE AND FUNCTION:
The purpose and function of the Rosemont Convention and Tourism Bureau is to
promote the use of the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center and to promote,
facilitate and enhance convention business, tourism and other forms of commerce
within the Village.
(Ord. 84-11-7B, 11-7-1984)
1-10B-3: GENERAL MANAGER OF BUREAU:
The Rosemont Convention and Tourism Bureau has been and shall be administered
by a General Manager who shall be appointed by the Village President, with the
advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. The General Manager shall
administer and operate the Rosemont Convention and Tourism Bureau under the
direction and supervision of the Executive Director of the Donald E. Stephens
Convention Center and the Village President.
(Ord. 84-11-7B, 11-7-1984)
CHAPTER 11: ETHICS
Section:
1-11-1:   Definitions
1-11-2:   Prohibited Political Activities
1-11-3:   Gift Ban
1-11-4:   Violations; Penalties
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any Federal, State, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action;
2) relating to collective bargaining; or 3) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
“regular election”, as defined in section 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/
1-3).
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, COMPENSATED
TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate, in whole or in part, for time worked in excess of the minimum
work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the Village of Rosemont, whether on a full-time
or part-time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of the Village with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The Village of Rosemont.
EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS: Modified compensation or benefit terms; compensated time
off; or change of title, job duties; or location of office or employment. An
employment benefit may also include favorable treatment in determining whether
to bring any disciplinary or similar action or favorable treatment during the
course of any disciplinary or similar action or other performance review.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment; b) service credit towards pension benefits; and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the Village of Rosemont.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office with respect
to the Village of Rosemont that is created by statute or ordinance, regardless
of whether the officer is compensated for service in his or her official
capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action; b) relating to collective bargaining; or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or the County Clerk under
section 9-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or the County
Clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer; or 2) by an employee; or
3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the office; or 2) with
an employee; or 3) with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer; or 2) by an employee;
or 3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee;
   E.   Is registered or required to be registered with the Secretary of State
under the Lobbyist Registration Act, except that an entity not otherwise a
prohibited source does not become a prohibited source merely because a
registered lobbyist is one of its members or serves on the board of directors;
or
   F.   Is an agent of, a spouse of, or an immediate family member who is
living with a PROHIBITED SOURCE.
(Ord. 2004-5-5C, 5-5-2004)
1-11-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No employee or officer holding an appointive office shall intentionally
perform any prohibited political activity during any "compensated time", as
defined herein. No officer or employee shall intentionally use any property or
resources of the Village in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer or employee’s duties; 2) as a condition of employment; or
3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time
off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   No officer or employee shall be awarded any additional compensation or
employee benefit, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time
off, continued employment, or otherwise, in consideration for the employee's
participation in any prohibited political activity.
   E.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   F.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position, the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by Federal funds, and that is subject to the Federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 2004-5-5C, 5-5-2004)
1-11-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Prohibitions: Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any “prohibited source”, as
defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
subsection.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The prohibitions and restrictions in subsection A of this section
are not applicable to the following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the Election
Code; or 2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss Village business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiancè or fianceè.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether, to the actual knowledge of the
recipient, the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purposes of this subsection B1h, “catered”
means food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are
delivered by any means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee, if the
benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position or
employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to others
in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this subsection B1j, “intra-governmental gift” means any gift given to an
officer or employee from another officer or employee, and “inter-governmental
gift” means any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee
of another governmental entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee does not violate
subsection A of this section if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action
to return a gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an
amount equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now
or hereafter amended, renumbered, or succeeded.
(Ord. 2004-5-5C, 5-5-2004)
1-11-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-11-2 of this chapter may be punishable by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of subsection
1-11-3A of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the Village Public Safety Department, the
State's Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punishable by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-11-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by the Village
Attorney by filing in the Circuit Court an information, or sworn complaint,
charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules
of criminal procedure. Conviction of a violation of section 1-11-2 of this
chapter shall require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a
reasonable doubt. A violation of subsection
1-11-3A of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by the
Village Attorney.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-11-2 or subsection
1-11-3A of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Ord. 2004-5-5C, 5-5-2004)
CHAPTER 12: ELECTIONS
Section:
1-12-1:   State Regulations Apply
1-12-2:   Time Of Holding Elections
1-12-3:   Costs
1-12-1: STATE REGULATIONS APPLY:
Elections for Village officers shall be held at the time and in the manner
prescribed by State Statute under the applicable provisions of the Illinois
Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., and as amended from time to time.
(1971 Code § 2-5)
1-12-2: TIME OF HOLDING ELECTIONS:
The Village election shall be held pursuant to sections 5/2A-1.1 and 5/2A-1.1a
of the Illinois Election Code (10 ILCS 5/12A-1.1 and 5/12A-1.1a), and as
amended from time to time.
(1971 Code § 2-6)
1-12-3: COSTS:
The costs of holding elections shall be apportioned equally between the
political subdivisions participating in the elections.
(1971 Code § 2-7)
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1: BOARD OF PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSIONERS
Section
2-1-1:   Board Created; Membership; Chair
2-1-2:   Qualifications
2-1-3:   Appointments And Terms
2-1-4:   Oath, Removal And Compensation
2-1-5:   Attorney For Board
2-1-6:   Secretary Of Board
2-1-7:   Failure To Attend Meetings; Vacancies
2-1-8:   Appointments By Board
2-1-9:   Rules And Regulations
2-1-10:   Additional Powers And Duties
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; CHAIR:
There is hereby created the Board of Public Safety Commissioners which,
effective as of February 1, 2021, will consist of three (3) members, appointed
by the Village President, by and with the approval of the Village Board of
Trustees. The Village President shall appoint one of the members of the Board
of Public Safety Commissioners as the Chair. The concurring vote of two (2)
members of the Board of Public Safety Commissioners shall be necessary to take
any action.
(Ord. 2014-2-12G, 2-12-2014; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 2018-10-10C, 10-10-2018; Ord.
2021-2-8C, 2-8-2021)
2-1-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
Each member of the board shall possess the qualifications required by State
Statute; except, that: a) a person shall be eligible for appointment to the
board if he either resides or works within the Village; b) holding another
Village office other than sworn full time public safety officer shall not bar a
person from membership; and c) relation to an elected official shall not bar a
person from membership.
(Ord. 95-4-5F, 4-5-1995)
2-1-3: APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS:
   A.   The Village President shall appoint two (2) members of the Board of
Public Safety Commissioners to serve for terms which shall expire on December
31, 2023 and one (1) member of the Board of Public Safety Commissioners to
serve for a term which shall expire on December 31, 2021. Thereafter, all
members of the Board of Public Safety Commissioners shall be appointed for a
term of four (4) years, commencing as of January 1, subject to earlier removal
of the appointing authority.
   B.   The terms of a member appointed on or after February 1, 2021 shall
continue beyond the expiration of their appointed term until a replacement has
been appointed and has qualified.
   C.   The terms of office of all members of the Zoning Board of Appeals
serving prior to February 1, 2021 shall end on January 31, 2021.
(Ord. 2014-2-12G, 2-12-2014; Ord. 2018-10-10C, 10-10-2018; 2019 Code; Ord.
2021-2-8C, 2-8-2021)
2-1-4: OATH, REMOVAL AND COMPENSATION:
   A.   Each member of the board shall take an oath (or affirmation) of office
and shall be subject to removal from office as provided by statute.
(Ord. 95-4-5F, 4-5-1995)
   B.   The members of the board shall be compensated as determined by the
Corporate Authorities.
(1971 Code § 2-99)
2-1-5: ATTORNEY FOR BOARD:
   A.   The Village Attorney shall serve as counsel for the Board and shall
represent the Board at any hearing on charges against officers of the Public
Safety Department, unless such attorney represents the person making such
charges, in which event the Board will retain and appoint a separate attorney.
   B.   To the extent the rules of the Board and any other previously enacted
ordinance, rule or regulation of the Village may be inconsistent with the
provisions of this section, the provisions of this section shall govern and
control.
(Ord. 2018-10-10B, 10-10-2018)
2-1-6: SECRETARY OF BOARD:
   A.   The board may employ a secretary at such compensation as may be
approved by the Village Board in the appropriation ordinance or otherwise; or
the board may designate one of its own members to act as secretary, with or
without additional compensation; and if the secretary is to be compensated, the
amount thereof shall be fixed by the Village Board.
   B.   The secretary shall keep the minutes of the board's proceedings, shall
be custodian of all papers pertaining to the business of the board, shall keep
a record of all examinations held and shall perform such other duties as the
board may prescribe.
(1971 Code § 2-98)
2-1-7: FAILURE TO ATTEND MEETINGS; VACANCIES:
   A.   If any person appointed to be a member of the Board of Public Safety
Commissioners fails to attend meetings of the board on three (3) consecutive
occasions, he shall be considered to have resigned his office as member of the
board unless such person received the prior approval of the Village President
to miss one or more of the meetings.
   B.   In the event a person appointed to be a member of the board is
considered to have resigned pursuant to subsection A of this section, then a
vacancy shall be created in the office to which such person was appointed, and
the Village President, may appoint another person to fill such vacancy.
(Ord. 85-7-3G, 7-3-1985)
2-1-8: APPOINTMENTS BY BOARD:
   A.   The board shall appoint all officers and members of the Department of
Public Safety except the Chief and Deputy Chiefs of the various bureaus of the
department, clerks and cadets who shall be appointed by the President and may
be removed or replaced by the President.
   B.   All appointments by the board to the Department of Public Safety, other
than that of the lowest rank, shall be from the rank next below that to which
the appointment is made.
   C.   The board shall conduct and hold entrance and promotion examinations
for the Department of Public Safety in the same manner as such examinations
would be conducted for police officers and firefighters in accordance with
State statute.
   D.   The board shall issue certificates of appointment in the same manner as
such certificates had been issued to police officers and firefighters.
   E.   1.   The board shall prepare, post and maintain a register of eligible
persons successfully passing all examinations for original appointments and for
promotional appointments for the Department of Public Safety. Any such register
of eligibles shall be in effect only for a period of two (2) years from and
after the date of its final posting, and no promotional or original
appointments shall be made from said register of eligibles after the expiration
of said two (2) year period. Except, the Lieutenant's Promotional List
initially dated April 11, 2022 shall be valid and in effect for promotional
appointments to the position of Lieutenant in the Department of Public Safety
for a period of three (3) years from and after the date of its final posting,
and no promotional appointment shall be made from said Lieutenant's Promotional
List after the expiration of said three (3) year period.
      2.   The two (2) year time period provided in subsection E1 of this
section shall be applicable to the existing registers of eligibles maintained
by the Board of Public Safety Commissioners; provided, that the adoption of
this subsection shall not affect or invalidate any appointments from such
registers of eligibles which were made prior to the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 75-9-17A, 9-17-1975; amd. Ord. 77-12-7C, 12-7-1977; Ord. 2024-5-13A, 5-
13-2024)
2-1-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The board shall make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to
provide for the appointment, promotion, suspension, demotion and removal of the
members of the Department of Public Safety, and from time to time may make such
changes in the rules and regulations as may be required. The board shall have
the power to suspend for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days to demote one
rank or to remove. The board shall make no rules regarding the Chief, Deputy or
Assistant Chiefs of the Department of Public Safety.
   B.   1.   All these rules and changes therein shall be printed immediately
for distribution. The board shall give notice:
         a.   Of the places where the printed rules may be obtained; and
         b.   Of the date, not less than ten (10) days subsequent to the time
of publication, when the rules or changes therein shall go into operation.
      2.   This notice shall be published in one or more newspapers published
in Rosemont.
(1971 Code § 2-96)
   C.   The rules of the board shall apply only to the conduct of examinations
for original appointments, for promotions, and to the conduct of hearings on
charges brought against a member of the Department of Public Safety. No such
rule shall be made by the board to govern the operation of the Department of
Public Safety or the conduct of its members.
(1971 Code § 2-97)
2-1-10: ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The board shall have such other and further powers as are contained in
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et seq., and as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 74-3-9, 3-9-1974; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The board shall possess the powers granted by State Statutes to suspend
and discharge public safety officers and, in addition, shall possess the power,
after a hearing, to demote a public safety officer one grade or rank.
   C.   The board, in rules and regulations drafted in conformity with this
chapter, may exercise such other powers as shall be inherent in an
administrative body of a home rule municipality and which are necessary to
carry out its functions.
   D.   The exercise of such additional powers, however, shall not conflict
with any provision of the ordinances of the Village.
(Ord. 74-3-9, 3-9-1974)
CHAPTER 2: 9-1-1 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
Section
2-2-1:   Board Created; Membership; Chair
2-2-2:   Appointments And Terms
2-2-3:   Composition
2-2-4:   Removals
2-2-5:   Powers And Duties
2-2-6:   Disposition Of Monies; Expenditures
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; CHAIR:
There is hereby created the 9-1-1 Emergency Telephone System Board which shall
consist of five (5) members. The Chair of the board shall be appointed by the
Village President from among the members of the board.
(Ord. 2014-2-12G, 2-12-2014; amd. 2019 Code)
2-2-2: APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS:
   A.   Initially, three (3) members of the board shall be appointed by the
Village President for a term of four (4) years and two (2) members for a term
of two (2) years. Thereafter, all members shall be appointed by the Village
President for a term of four (4) years, commencing January 1, subject to
earlier removal by the Village President.
(Ord. 2014-2-12G, 2-12-2014; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The term of an incumbent member’s appointment shall continue following
expiration of the member’s appointed term of office and until a replacement has
been appointed and has qualified.
   C.   The terms of office of all members of the board shall end on the latter
of the first regular meeting of the Village Board of Trustees occurring in
January of each year or on the date their respective successors have been
appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 2014-2-12G, 2-12-2014)
2-2-3: COMPOSITION:
At least three (3) members of the board shall be representatives of 9-1-
1 public safety agencies including, but not limited to, police departments,
fire departments, emergency medical services providers and emergency services
and disaster agencies, and shall be appointed on the basis of their ability or
experience. Not less than one member of the board shall be a public member who
is a resident of the local exchange service territory included in the 9-1-
1 coverage area. Elected officials are eligible to serve on the board.
(Ord. 2014-2-12G, 2-12-2014)
2-2-4: REMOVALS:
Members may be removed at any time by a vote of the members of the Corporate
Authorities elected, for misconduct, official misconduct or neglect of office.
(Ord. 92-12-2A, 12-2-1992)
2-2-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the board shall include the following:
   A.   Planning a 9-1-1 system.
   B.   Coordinating and supervising the implementation, upgrading or
maintenance of the system, including the establishment of equipment
specifications and coding systems.
   C.   Receiving monies from the surcharge imposed by ordinance (see title 3,
chapter 11, article B of this Code) and from any other source, for deposit into
the Emergency Telephone System Fund.
   D.   Authorizing all disbursements from the fund.
   E.   Hiring, on a temporary basis, any staff necessary for the
implementation or upgrade of the system, but only after authorization by the
Village President.
(Ord. 92-12-2A, 12-2-1992)
2-2-6:   DISPOSITION OF MONIES; EXPENDITURES:
   A.   All monies received by the ETS Board pursuant to a surcharge imposed by
ordinance shall be deposited into an Emergency Telephone System Fund. The
Finance Director shall be custodian of the fund. All interest accruing on the
fund shall remain in the fund.
   B.   No expenditures may be made from such fund except upon the direction of
the ETS Board by resolution passed by a majority of all members of the ETS
Board. Expenditures may be made only to pay for the costs associated with the
following:
      1.   The design of the emergency telephone system.
      2.   The coding of an initial Master Street Address Guide data base and
update and maintenance thereof.
      3.   The repayment of any monies advanced for the implementation of the
system.
      4.   The charges for automatic number identification and automatic
location identification equipment, and maintenance, replacement and update
thereof.
      5.   The nonrecurring charges related to installation of the emergency
telephone system and the ongoing network charges.
      6.   Other products and services necessary for the implementation,
upgrade and maintenance of the system and any other purpose related to the
operation of the system, including costs attributable directly to the
construction, leasing, or maintenance of any buildings or facilities or costs
of personnel attributable directly to the operation of the system. Costs
attributable directly to the operation of an system do not include the costs of
public safety agency personnel who are and equipment that is dispatched in
response to an emergency call.
(Ord. 92-12-2A, 12-2-1992)
CHAPTER 3: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
Section
2-3-1:   Chamber Created; Purpose
2-3-2:   Executive Director
2-3-3:   Board Of Directors
2-3-4:   Powers
2-3-5:   Membership Program
2-3-1: CHAMBER CREATED; PURPOSE:
The Chamber of Commerce of the Village is hereby created for the purpose of:
   A.   Enhancing and promoting commercial and business development within the
Village;
   B.   Publicizing opportunities for business and commercial development
within the Village;
   C.   Publicizing businesses located within the Village;
   D.   Publicizing commercial and professional activities which occur within
the Village;
   E.   Assisting businesses which are located within the Village;
   F.   Enhancing communication between the local business community and the
Village government; and
   G.   Engaging in other activities intended to attract new businesses and
commercial development to the Village and to maintain the business activity and
commercial development that exists within the Village.
(Ord. 92-4-1J, 4-1-1992)
2-3-2: EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR:
The Chamber of Commerce shall have an Executive Director who shall be appointed
by the Village President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The
Executive Director shall be an employee of the Village. The Executive Director
shall supervise and administer the operations of the Chamber of Commerce.
(Ord. 92-4-1J, 4-1-1992)
2-3-3: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   The Chamber of Commerce shall have a Board of Directors which shall
have five (5) members and shall act in advisory capacity to the Executive
Director.
   B.   The members of the Board of Directors shall be owners, officers or
employees of businesses located within the Village.
   C.   The Village President may designate a member of the Village Board of
Trustees to serve as an ex officio member of the Board of Directors.
   D.   The Board of Directors may adopt bylaws to govern the operation of the
commission; provided, that such bylaws shall not be inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter and shall be approved and subject to later
modification by the Executive Director of the Chamber.
(Ord. 96-7-3G, 7-3-1996)
2-3-4: POWERS:
The Chamber of Commerce shall have the power:
   A.   To undertake programs and other activities which are designed to
provide support for businesses which are located within the Village and
commercial and professional activities which occur within the Village.
   B.   To undertake programs and other activities which are intended to
enhance communication between the Village government and businesses and
commercial and professional activities located within the Village.
   C.   To undertake programs and other activities which are intended to
publicize or otherwise attract new businesses and new commercial and
professional activities to the Village.
   D.   To undertake such other programs and activities consistent with the
purposes set forth in section 2-4-1 of this chapter as the Executive Director,
acting on the advice of the Chamber’s Board of Directors deems appropriate.
(Ord. 92-4-1J, 4-1-1992)
2-3-5: MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM:
   A.   The Chamber of Commerce shall have the authority to establish a
membership program for businesses located within the Village and companies and
persons who engage in commercial and professional activities within the
Village.
   B.   The Chamber of Commerce may solicit businesses and persons who engage
in commercial and professional activities within the Village to become members
of the Chamber.
   C.   The Chamber of Commerce may charge members dues for the purpose of
supporting the activities of the commission and may limit participation in the
commission's activities to commission members.
(Ord. 92-4-1J, 4-1-1992)
CHAPTER 4: MUSEUM COMMISSION
Section
2-4-1:   Commission Established; Purpose
2-4-2:   Membership
2-4-3:   Powers And Duties
2-4-4:   Authority To Solicit And Accept Donations And Gifts
2-4-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby established the Village of Rosemont Museum Commission, (the
“Museum Commission”). The purpose of the Museum Commission is to cause a museum
to be established and operated within the Village for the preservation and
display of porcelain and wood works of art (the “Museum”) and to oversee the
operation and maintenance of the Museum and any and all works of art which
become part of the Museum’s collection.
(Ord. 84-11-17A, 11-17-1984)
2-4-2: MEMBERSHIP:
Those persons who are elected to serve as Village Trustees shall serve as
members of the Museum Commission ex officio during their terms of office as
Trustees. Such service shall be considered an additional official duty assigned
to those persons who are elected to the position of Village Trustee. The
Village President shall not be a member of the Museum Commission. Persons
appointed to serve as Village Trustees shall not be members of the Museum
Commission.
(Ord. 84-11-17A, 11-17-1984)
2-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Museum Commission shall have the power and duty to cause the museum
to be established and operated within the Village. The Hummel figurines and
plates, Anri wood carvings and similar objects given to the Village pursuant to
the agreement of gift, a copy of which is attached to ordinance 84-11-17A as
Exhibit A (the “agreement of gift”) will be placed on public display in the
museum in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement of gift.
The name of the museum shall contain the phrase “Donald E. Stephens”.
   B.   The Museum Commission shall have the power and duty to establish policy
for, provide for, and oversee the operation and maintenance of the museum and
any and all works of art which become part of the museum’s collection.
   C.   The Museum Commission shall have the power and duty to cause an annual
budget to be prepared for the establishment, operation and maintenance of the
museum and any and all works of art in the museum's collection.
   D.   The Museum Commission shall have the power and duty to take any and all
action necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement of
gift.
(Ord. 84-11-17A, 11-17-1984)
2-4-4: AUTHORITY TO SOLICIT AND ACCEPT DONATIONS AND GIFTS:
The Museum Commission is hereby authorized to solicit and accept on behalf of
the Village monetary donations which will be used to defray the cost of
operating and maintaining the museum. The Museum Commission is further
authorized to accept on behalf of the Village gifts of works of art which are
artistically and aesthetically compatible with the Hummel figurines and plates,
Anri wood carvings and other similar objects donated to the Village pursuant to
the agreement of gift; provided, that the terms and conditions of such gifts
are not any more restrictive than the terms and conditions contained in the
agreement of gift.
(Ord. 84-11-17A, 11-17-1984)
CHAPTER 5: PLAN COMMISSION
Section
   
2-5-1: Plan Commission Established
   
2-5-2: Duties
   
2-5-3: Plan Commission Status As An Advisory Body
   
2-5-4: Adoption Of A Plan
   
2-5-5: Impact Of The Adoption Of A Comprehensive Plan Or Any Portion Thereof;
Zoning
   
2-5-6: Meetings; Procedure
2-5-1: PLAN COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
A Plan Commission is hereby established for the Village of Rosemont. The
Village's Zoning Board of Appeals shall also serve as the Plan Commission for
the Village. All members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall also be members
of the Plan Commission. The Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall also be
the Chair of the Plan Commission. Any vacancy in the Zoning Board of Appeals by
resignation, removal or otherwise shall also create a vacancy on the Plan
Commission. All persons that are qualified to be on the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be qualified to be a member of the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2021-7-12A, 7-12-2021)
2-5-2: DUTIES:
The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties.
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the
municipality. The Plan Commission's recommendations may include: (1) the usage
and development of property; (2) requirements for streets, alleys, public
grounds, and other improvements; (3) standards of design for subdivisions and
for resubdivisions of land and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to
public improvements; (4) requirements governing the location, width, course,
and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service
facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks, playgrounds,
school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water
drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection
and treatment; (5) land suitable for annexation to the municipality; and (6)
changes and modifications to the Village's zoning ordinances.
   B.   To recommend corrections to and changes, from time to time, in the
Village's comprehensive plan, taking into account the actual development or
redevelopment of property within the Village and relevant areas outside the
corporate boundaries.
   C.   To consider and make recommendations concerning changes to any separate
geographical areas or functional components of any comprehensive plan already
in existence.
   D.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities, from time to
time, plans for specific improvements.
   E.   To make such other recommendations germane to the duties described in
this section.
(Ord. 2021-7-12A, 7-12-2021)
2-5-3: PLAN COMMISSION STATUS AS AN ADVISORY BODY:
The Plan Commission shall only serve as an advisory body to the Village's
corporate authorities. Any recommendation made by the Plan Commission shall
only be advisory and in and of itself shall not be construed to regulate,
control or have any impact on the use or development of any property.
(Ord. 2021-7-12A, 7-12-2021)
2-5-4: ADOPTION OF A PLAN:
A comprehensive plan, or any amendment to any geographical or functional
component of same shall not be adopted by the Village's corporate authorities
until notice and opportunity for public hearing have first been afforded. Upon
submission of a recommendation by the Plan Commission, or a proposed amendment
to an existing comprehensive plan or any geographical or functional component
thereof, the corporate authorities shall schedule a public hearing thereon and
give not less than fifteen (15) days' notice nor more than thirty (30) days'
notice of the proposed hearing, and the time and place thereof, by publication
in a newspaper of general circulation within the Village. The hearing shall be
informal, but all persons desiring to be heard in support or opposition to the
comprehensive plan or amendment shall be afforded such opportunity, and may
submit their statements, orally, in writing, or both. The hearing may be
recessed to another date if not concluded, if notice of the time and place
thereof is publicly announced at the hearing or is given by newspaper
publication not less than five (5) days prior to the recessed hearing.
Following the public hearing, the corporate authorities may by resolution: (1)
reject or adopt the comprehensive plan or any amendments to same recommended by
a Plan Commission; (2) adopt parts of a comprehensive plan recommended by a
Plan Commission without adopting the entire comprehensive plan as recommended;
(3) adopt portions of the any changes recommended by the Plan Commission to
either the entire comprehensive plan or any portion thereof; (4) adopt
amendments or modifications recommended by the Plan Commission for geographical
or functional components of a comprehensive plan already in existence; or (5)
otherwise modify or amend any recommendation, or any portion thereof, made by
the Plan Commission without requiring any further consideration or action by
the Plan Commission, and may adopt such modified changes made by the corporate
authorities to any portion of the Plan Commission's recommendation.
(Ord. 2021-7-12A, 7-12-2021)
2-5-5: IMPACT OF THE ADOPTION OF A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR ANY PORTION THEREOF;
ZONING:
The corporate authorities' adoption, amendment or modification of any
comprehensive plan for either the entirety of the Village or for any portion
thereof shall not be construed to regulate, control or have any impact on the
use or development of any property in any way, except to the extent that the
adopted comprehensive plan or any portion thereof has been implemented by
ordinances duly enacted by the corporate authorities. As the public has a due
process right to participate in the zoning and rezoning of any property and the
zoning determinations made with regard to the use of any property, uses of
property that may be directly or indirectly contemplated or inferred from any
comprehensive plan or any portion thereof adopted by the Village's corporate
authorities shall not be construed to regulate, control or have any impact on
the use or development of any property in any way, except to the extent that
the adopted comprehensive plan or any portion thereof has been implemented by
modifications to the Village's zoning ordinance duly enacted by the corporate
authorities. The provisions of this section shall apply to any adoption,
amendment or modification of any comprehensive plan for either the entirety of
the Village or for any portion thereof that has been approved by the Village's
corporate authorities prior to, or after, the approval of the ordinance adding
this chapter to the Village's Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-7-12A, 7-12-2021)
2-5-6: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE:
All meetings of the Plan Commission shall be held at the call of the Chair, at
such times as the Plan Commission may determine and open to the public. The
Chair, or in his/her absence, the Acting Chair, may administer oaths to
witnesses. The Village shall hire and designate a non-voting Secretary for the
Plan Commission. The Secretary shall take and prepare minutes for all
proceedings and keep a full and detailed record of the proceedings. The minutes
shall include the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact. A record of every determination and
recommendation of the Plan Commission and all documents submitted to the Plan
Commission shall be maintained by the Secretary. A majority vote of the full
number of members of the Plan Commission shall be required for the Plan
Commission to make any determination or to make any recommendation to the
Village's corporate authorities. The Plan Commission Secretary may make an
audio recording of any meeting to assist in the preparation of the minutes. The
Plan Commission may adopt additional rules of procedure not in conflict with
Illinois Statute or the Village ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-7-12A, 7-12-2021)
TITLE 3: FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1: TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Section
3-1-1:   Title
3-1-2:   Scope; Application Of Provisions
3-1-3:   Definitions
3-1-4:   Notice Requirements
3-1-5:   Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
3-1-6:   Application Of Tax Payments
3-1-7:   Certain Credits And Refunds
3-1-8:   Audit Procedure
3-1-9:   Appeals
3-1-10:   Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
3-1-11:   Installment Contracts
3-1-12:   Statute Of Limitations
3-1-13:   Voluntary Disclosure
3-1-14:   Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
3-1-15:   Review Of Liens
3-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the VILLAGE OF ROSEMONT
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the Village
procedures in connection with all of the Village locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the Village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with a provision in this chapter, the provision in this chapter
shall govern and control.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ACT: The Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act (50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.)
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The Village President and Board of Trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The Village Finance Officer. The Local Tax
Administrator is charged with the administration and collection of the locally
imposed and administered taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the
extent they are authorized by the Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local
Tax Administrator’s stead. The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority
to implement the terms of this chapter so as to give full effect to this
chapter. The manner of the exercise of such authority by the Local Tax
Administrator shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or
the provisions of the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the Village
that is collected or administered by the Village itself rather than an agency
or department of the State of Illinois. LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or
TAX does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the Property
Tax Code (35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.) or fees collected by the Village.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the Village locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the Village or provision of this Code
that imposes a locally imposed and administered tax. CONTROLLING TAX ORDINANCE
means the Village ordinance that imposes a particular locally imposed and
administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer or privilege taxes, includes a business or
entity required to collect and pay or remit the locally imposed and
administered tax to the Village.
VILLAGE: The Village of Rosemont, Illinois.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the Local
Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express U.S. mail, or by an overnight delivery service,
addressed to the persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
Village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   A.   Physically received by the Village on or before the due date; or
   B.   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable
U.S. mail postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the
Village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the interest due, if any, for the applicable period;
second, to the tax due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for
the applicable period.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: In the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared to have been invalidly enacted or is declared to
be unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Village shall not
refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid unless a written protest is made at
the time of payment. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid the
tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest payment of a tax at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the tax
under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations; Limitation On Issuance Of Credit Or Refund: Any
claim made by a taxpayer for a credit or refund arising from the payment to the
Village of a tax, other than the taxes which the Village imposes on the
privilege of renting a hotel room, or purchasing gasoline imposed by the
Village, must be received by the Village not more than four (4) years after the
end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made. Any claim made by
a taxpayer for a credit or refund arising from the payment of the taxes which
the Village imposes on the privilege of renting a hotel room, purchasing
gasoline imposed by the Village, must be received by the Village not more than
one year after the date the payment in error was made. The Village shall not
grant a creditor refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or
penalties to a person who has acted only as a collector of the tax, unless
there is in place a procedure that provides reasonable assurance that the
amount of the credit or refund shall be paid over to the person or persons who
actually paid the tax. The Village shall not grant a credit or refund of a tax
to a person who has not paid or remitted the amounts directly to the Village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and a canceled
check or receipt for the payment or other proof of payment;
         d.   If applicable, the taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an
amended or revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the Village.
      2.   Within twenty one (21) days of the receipt by the Local Tax
Administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator
shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit;
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor; and
      4.   A date and time not less than twenty one (21) days from the date of
the notice of audit on which the audit will begin to be conducted.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours. If the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer. Such request
shall be made not more than fourteen (14) days after the date of the notice of
the audit. The taxpayer may request that the audit be conducted on certain
dates and at certain times; provided, that such dates are not more than sixty
(60) days from the date of the notice of audit. The Village shall conduct the
audit on a date and at a time requested by the taxpayer, if such date and time
are reasonably convenient to both the Village and any persons retained by the
Village to conduct the audit. A date and time shall not be considered to be
reasonably convenient if conducting an audit on a particular date or at a
particular time will interfere with the ability of Village officers, employees
and agents to perform any other duties which they may have as a result of their
employment.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than twenty one (21) days nor
more than sixty (60) days from the date of the notice of audit, unless the
taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator agree to some other convenient time.
   C.   Taxpayer’s Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer’s business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the Village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the Village. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s
tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within fourteen
(14) days after the Village determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: A protestable notice of tax
due, a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax
issued by the Local Tax Administrator shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the Village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
Local Tax Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing shall include any written documents or other
documentary evidence that indicates that the Village determination or
assessment of tax due is unauthorized or otherwise erroneous. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt after the date the written notice of the
tax determination or tax liability was served on the taxpayer.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date that is not more than thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Local Tax Administrator of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the Local Tax
Administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing after the forty five (45) day period specified in
subsection B of this section has expired. In no event shall the time for filing
a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more
than one hundred twenty (120) days after the expiration of the forty five (45)
day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer has filed a timely written protest and petition
for hearing under this section, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a
hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except for good cause. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed forty five (45) days. The Local Tax Administrator shall have
the authority to determine whether and when to grant a continuance in the
reasonable exercise of the Local Tax Administrator's discretion.
      3.   At the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: A tax must be paid within the time set by the
controlling ordinance. In the event a determination has been made that a tax is
due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The Village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be one
and one-half percent (1.5%) per month or part thereof.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the Village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. If no return is filed after the issuance of a notice of
tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty
shall be assessed equal to thirty five percent (35%) of the total tax due for
the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be filed.
A late fling or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is
imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Ord. 2001-1-10D, 1-10-2001)
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The Local Tax Administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the Local Tax Administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to enter into an
installment contract on behalf of the Village with the taxpayer for the payment
of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax Administrator may
not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay
any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the Local Tax Administrator
that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have
fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or fails to
demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The Village, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
Village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
then the period within which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be
issued by the Village shall be six (6) years after the end of the calendar year
in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year
in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   D.   If a fraudulent tax return was filed by the taxpayer, there shall be no
limit on the time within which the Village can issue a notice of tax
determination or assessment for the period covered by the fraudulent return.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application, but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements including, but not limited to, publication in
pamphlet form. Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the
public upon request at the Village Clerk’s Office.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
3-1-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the Village expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 2000-12-6D, 12-6-2000)
CHAPTER 2: MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES AND FEES
Section
3-2-1:   Home Rule Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax
3-2-2:   Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-2-3:   Municipal Use Tax
3-2-4:   Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3-2-5:   Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
3-2-6:   Foreign Fire Insurance Companies Fee
3-2-1: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: Effective on and after September 1, 1990, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property, other than an item of tangible personal property titled or
registered with an agency of the government of the State of Illinois, at retail
in the Village. Until January 1, 1994, the rate of the tax shall be one percent
(1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business.
Effective on and after January 1, 1994, the rate of such tax shall be one and
one-forth percent (1.25%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business.
(Ord. 93-4-7F, 4-7-1993)
   B.   Exemptions From Tax: Effective on and after September 1, 1991, the tax
provided by subsection A of this section shall not be imposed on the sales of
food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been
prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics.
(Ord. 90-1-10D, 1-10-1990)
   C.   Collection Of Tax: The tax provided in subsection A of this section
shall be collected by the Illinois Department of Revenue as provided in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 and shall otherwise be subject to the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
(Ord. 90-1-10D, 1-10-1990; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-2: HOME RULE MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: Effective on and after September 1, 1990, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of making sales of
service. Until January 1, 1994, the rate of the tax shall be one percent (1%)
of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such
servicemen either in the form of personal property or in the form of real
estate as an incident to the service. Effective on and after January 1, 1994,
the rate of such tax shall be one and one-fourth percent (1.25%) of the selling
price of all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen either
in the form of personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to the service.
(Ord. 93-4-7E, 4-7-1993)
   B.   Exemptions From Tax: Effective on and after September 1, 1991, the tax
provided by subsection A of this section shall not be imposed on the sales of
food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been
prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics.
(Ord. 90-1-10C, 1-10-1990)
   C.   Collection Of Tax: The tax provided for in subsection A of this section
shall be collected by the Illinois Department of Revenue as provided in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5 and shall otherwise be subject to the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.
(Ord. 90-1-10C, 1-10-1990; amd. 2019 Code)
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A. Tax Imposed; Rate: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions
of section 8-11-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code upon the privilege of using in
the Municipality any item of tangible personal property which is purchased at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered at a location within
the corporate limits of the Village with an agency of the State Government. The
tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price of such
tangible property with “selling price” to have the meaning as defined in the
Use Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955 (35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.)
   B.   Collection And Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed herein shall be
collected by the Illinois Department of Revenue and shall be paid before the
title or certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
(Ord. 74-10-16, 10-16-1974)
3-2-4: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in
the business of renting automobiles in the Village at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-7 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-7).
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
Village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, a report
to the State Department of Revenue required by section 3 of the Retailer’s
Occupation Tax, as amended (35 ILCS 120/3).
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
(Ord. 82-1-20, 1-20-1982)
3-2-5: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using
in the Village an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois,
and which is titled or registered with an agency of the government of the State
of Illinois in the Village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price
of such automobile, while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of section 8-11-8 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-8).
For the purposes of this Section "automobile" means every vehicle which is
self-propelled and includes but is not necessarily limited to:
      1.   Passenger vehicles, motorcycles, motor driven cycles, motor driven
scooters;
      2.   Pick-up trucks, sport utility vehicles (SUVs), and vehicles for
pulling or carrying freight or cargo; provided the pick-up truck, SUV or
vehicle for pulling or carrying freight or cargo has a Gross Vehicle Weight
Rating, as defined in Section 1-124.5 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/
1-124.5), of eight thousand pounds (8,000 lbs.) or less; and
      3.   Any other vehicle of the first division or second division as
defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-146.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The tax provided in this section shall be collected
from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is
given as being in the Village.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 82-1-20A, 1-20-1982; amd. Ord. 2024-4-8A, 4-8-2024)
3-2-6: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES FEE:
   A.   Foreign Fire Insurance Board: The Foreign Fire Insurance Board is
herein created within the Fire Division of the Department of Public Safety. The
Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall consist of seven (7) trustees; the
Superintendent of the Department of Public Safety, who shall hold office by
virtue of rank, and six (6) members, who shall be elected at large by the sworn
members of the Fire Division. If there is an insufficient number of candidates
to fill all these positions, the number of Board members may be reduced, but
not to fewer than three (3) trustees. All members of the Fire Division shall be
eligible to be elected as officers of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board. The
members of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall annually elect officers.
These officers shall be a chairman and a treasurer. The Foreign Fire Insurance
Board shall make all needful rules and regulations with respect to the Foreign
Fire Insurance Board and the management of the money to be appropriated to it.
The officers of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall develop and maintain a
listing of those items that the Board feels are appropriate expenditures under
65 ILCS 5/11-10-1 and 5/11-10-2). The treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance
Board shall give a sufficient bond to the Village, the amount of which shall be
approved by the Village President, conditioned upon the faithful performance by
the treasurer of his duties under the ordinance and any rules and regulations
of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board. The treasurer of the Foreign Fire
Insurance Board shall receive the appropriated money and shall pay out the
money upon the order of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board for the maintenance,
use, and benefit of the Fire Division. The Fire Insurance Board shall keep its
funds on deposit with the Finance Officer, who shall use such funds as directed
by the Foreign Fire Insurance Board.
   B.   Tax Imposed:
      1.   Any corporation, company or association not incorporated under the
laws of the State, which is engaged in the Village in effecting fire insurance,
shall pay the Treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board, for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Division of the Village, a sum of
money equal in amount to two percent per annum of the gross receipts received
as premiums upon fire insurance policies by any and all agents of such
corporation, company, or association, during the year ending on July 1 in each
year, for any insurance effected, or agreed to be effected on property located
in the Village, by or with such corporation, company or association during such
year. This section shall not be applicable to receipts from contracts of marine
insurance, even though they include insurance against fire, where the premium
for the fire insurance is not separately specified. The tax may be collected by
and for the benefit if the Foreign Fire Insurance Board by the Illinois
Municipal League or any other entity that has contracted to provide such
service.
      2.   Every person acting in the Village, as agent, for or on behalf of
any corporation, company or association taxed under this chapter shall, on or
before July 15 of each and every year, render to the treasurer of the Foreign
Fire Insurance Board a full, true and just account verified by his oath, of all
premiums upon fire insurance policies which, during the year ending July 1
preceding such report, shall have been received by him, or by some other person
for him, on behalf of any such corporation, company, or association on property
located in the Village. Such agent shall also, at the time of rendering the
report, pay to the treasurer of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board the sum of
money for which company, corporation or association, represented by him is
chargeable, by virtue of the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   If this account is not rendered on or before July 15 of each year,
or if the sum due remains unpaid after that day, it shall be unlawful for any
corporation, company, or association, so in default, to transact any business
in the municipality or fire protection district until the sum due has been
fully paid. But, this provision shall not relieve any corporation, company, or
association from the payment of any loss upon any risk that may be taken in
violation of this requirement.
   C.   Disposition Of Proceeds: The treasurer of the Foreign Fire insurance
Board shall receive all monies collected under this chapter and deposit the
monies with the Finance Officer who shall then pay the monies out upon the
order of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board for the maintenance, use and benefit
of the Fire Division.
   D.   Manner Of Collection When Not Paid: The sum of money for which such
company, corporation or association taxed under this chapter is chargeable may
be recovered of it, or its agents or agent, by an action in the name of and for
the use of the Village.
(Ord. 2019-7-10, 7-10-2019)
CHAPTER 3: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES TAXES
ARTICLE A: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
Section
3-3A-1:   Definitions
3-3A-2:   Tax Imposed; Rate
3-3A-3:   Exemptions From Tax
3-3A-4:   Tax Is Additional
3-3A-5:   Tax Returns; Payment Of Tax
3-3A-6:   Erroneous Payments; Time Limit For Credit
3-3A-7:   Statute Of Limitations
3-3A-8:   Violation; Penalties
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the terms “gross receipts”, “person”, and “public
utility” shall have the definitions set forth in the provisions of section 8-
11-2(d) of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(d)), as now and as
hereafter amended.
(Ord. 97-9-3B, 9-3-1997; amd. 2019 Code)
3-3A-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   Effective as of October 1, 1997, a tax is imposed on all persons
engaged in the following occupations or privileges:
(Ord. 97-9-3B, 9-3-1997)
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the Village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom; provided, that the tax imposed pursuant to this
subsection A1 shall not apply with respect to gross receipts from the
distribution, supply, furnishing or sale of electricity where the use or
consumption of the electricity is subject to the tax imposed pursuant to
article C of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the Village, and not for resale, at a rate not to exceed five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom.
(Ord. 97-9-3B, 9-3-1997)
   B.   The tax provided in this section shall be based on the gross receipts
actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978)
3-3A-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No tax is imposed by this article with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business or privilege may
not, under the Constitution and Statutes of the United States, be made subject
to taxation by this State or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling
or transmitting gas, or electricity or using or consuming electricity acquired
in a purchase at retail be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
article for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act authorized by
section 8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-1), and as
hereafter amended.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. 2019 Code)
3-3A-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax imposed by this article shall be in addition to the payment of money or
value of products or services furnished to the Village by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978)
3-3A-5: TAX RETURNS; PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   On or before the last day of February of each year, each taxpayer shall
make a return to the Village Collector for the months of October, November and
December next following stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts during these months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require.
   B.   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the Village Collector, the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may,
if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978)
3-3A-6: ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS; TIME LIMIT FOR CREDIT:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978)
3-3A-7: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article
shall be commenced more than five (5) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978)
3-3A-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of
tax due.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978)
ARTICLE B: MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
Section
3-3B-1:   Definitions
3-3B-2:   Tax Imposed; Rates
3-3B-3:   Effective Date Of Tax
3-3B-4:   Tax Is Additional
3-3B-5:   Exemptions From Tax
3-3B-6:   Collection Of Tax
3-3B-7:   Tax Remittance And Return
3-3B-8:   Resales
3-3B-9:   Credits And Refunds; Time Limit
3-3B-10:   Books And Records
3-3B-11:   Violation; Penalties
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall be defined as follows:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the State or any of its political subdivisions, any
State university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSONS MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within the State of Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary or other
affiliate, an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission
facility, sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or
other representative operating within the State of Illinois under the authority
of the person or its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether
such place of business or agent or other representative is located in the State
of Illinois permanently or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or
other affiliate is licensed or qualified to do business in the State of
Illinois.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in section 8-11-2(d) of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(d)), directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
Village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATES:
   A.   Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, and any and
all other applicable authority, and subject to the provisions of this section,
a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired
in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
Village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser:
Amount Of Electricity Used Or Consumed Price Per Kilowatt Hour (Cents)
Amount Of Electricity Used Or Consumed  Price Per Kilowatt Hour (Cents)
For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours      0.554
For the next  48,000 kilowatt hours     0.363
For the next  50,000 kilowatt hours     0.327
For the next  400,000 kilowatt hours    0.318
For the next  500,000 kilowatt hours    0.309
For the next  2,000,000 kilowatt hours  0.291
For the next  2,000,000 kilowatt hours  0.286
For the next  5,000,000 kilowatt hours  0.282
For the next  10,000,000 kilowatt hours 0.277
In excess of 20,000,000 kilowatt hours  0.273
 
   B.   The tax rates set forth in subsection A of this section are
proportional to the rates enumerated in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, as modified by Public Act 90-561 and do not exceed the rates
which the Village is authorized to impose pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the
Illinois Municipal Code as modified by Public Act 90-561.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-3: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, the rates set forth
in subsection
3-3B-2A of this article shall be effective: a) on August 1, 1999, for
residential customers; and b) for nonresidential customers, on the earlier of:
a) the last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or b) the date of the first
bill issued pursuant to section 16-104 of the Illinois Public Utilities Act
(220 ILCS 5/16-104).
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax imposed pursuant to subsection
3-3B-2A of this article is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue
measures imposed by the Village, the State of Illinois or any other political
subdivision of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the tax imposed by
subsection
3-3B-2A of this article shall not be imposed if and to the extent that
imposition or collection of the tax would violate the Constitution or Statutes
of the United States or the Constitution or an applicable statute of the State
of Illinois.
   B.   The tax imposed by subsection
3-3B-2A of this article shall not be imposed with respect to any purchase at
retail of electricity by the Village.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-6: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of section
3-3B-8 of this article regarding the delivery of electricity to resellers, the
tax imposed under this article shall be collected from purchasers by the person
maintaining a place of business in the State of Illinois who delivers
electricity to such purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of the
purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and is
recoverable at the same time and in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity.
   B.   Any tax required to be collected by this article, and any tax in fact
collected, shall constitute a debt owed the Village by the person delivering
the electricity; provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be
allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the charges
for which are written off as uncollectible; and provided further, that if such
charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to
remit such tax as provided in section
3-3B-7 of this article.
   C.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser
by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized, as provided in section 8-11-2
(c) of the Illinois Municipal Code, to add to such gross charge an amount equal
to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the Village upon request. For purposes of this article, any partial payment
of a billed amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed
to be for the delivery of electricity.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-7: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Each person required by section 3-3B-6 of this article to collect the
tax imposed pursuant to subsection
3-3B-2A of this article shall file a return with the Village on the last day of
the month following each month covered during which the tax imposed by said
subsection
3-3B-2A is collected or is required to be collected under this article. The
return shall state:
      1.   The person’s name.
      2.   The address of the person's principal place of business in the State
of Illinois or residence if the person filing the return is a natural person.
      3.   The month for which the return is being filed.
      4.   The total number of kilowatt hours of electricity used or consumed
in each of the categories set forth in subsection 3-3B-2A of this article for
which the person was required to collect payment of the tax imposed by said
subsection
3-3B-2A from purchasers during the month covered by the return, and if
different, the total number of kilowatt hours of electricity used or consumed
in each of the categories set forth in subsection
3-3B-2A of this article for which the person in fact collected payment from
purchasers of the tax imposed by said subsection
3-3B-2A.
      5.   The amount of the tax imposed by subsection
3-3B-2A of this article which was collected and the amount of the tax being
remitted to the Village with the return.
      6.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Village may
require.
   B.   Each person filing a return provided in this section shall, at the time
the return is filed, remit and pay to the Village the amount of the tax imposed
pursuant to subsection
3-3B-2A of this article which such person collected during the month for which
the return is being filed. Such person shall also remit and pay to the Village,
at the time the return is filed, any other amounts of the tax imposed pursuant
to subsection
3-3B-2A of this article which, as of the end of the month for which the return
is being filed, otherwise constituted a debt owed to the Village by the person
pursuant to subsection
3-3B-6B of this article.
   C.   The Village Finance Officer may prescribe the form of the return or
authorize the use of a form for the return required to be filed by this
section.
   D.   If the person delivering electricity to a purchaser fails to collect
the tax imposed pursuant to subsection
3-3B-2A of this article from the purchaser, the purchaser shall file a
purchaser’s tax return with the Village containing the information set forth in
subsections A1, A2 and A3 of this section. The purchaser’s tax return shall
also state the amount of electricity used or consumed during the month for
which the return is being filed according to the categories set forth in
subsection
3-3B-2A of this article and the amount of the tax imposed on the electricity
used or consumed by the purchaser during the month for which the return is
being filed. Payment of the amount of the tax imposed shall be made to the
Village at the time the purchaser’s tax return is filed. The purchaser’s tax
return shall be filed no later than the last day of the month following the
month for which the return is being made.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-8: RESALES:
   A.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in the Village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the Village and
furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity, and certifies
to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially nontaxable as a
sale for resale.
   B.   If a person who receives electricity in the Village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the Village for
a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it is not liable
for the tax imposed by this article on any purchases of electricity and shall
furnish such additional information as the Village may reasonably require.
   C.   Upon approval of the application, the Village shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
   D.   The Village may cancel the resale number of any person if the person
fails to pay any tax payable under this article for electricity used or
consumed by the person, or if the number: 1) was obtained through
misrepresentation; or 2) is no longer necessary because the person has
discontinued making resales.
   E.   1. If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or consumption
and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by this article
directly to the Village pursuant to this article on the amount of electricity
that the reseller uses or consumes, and shall collect and remit the tax
pursuant to this article on the amount of electricity delivered by the reseller
to a purchaser.
      2.   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an active
resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section shall be
excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity
delivered to the reseller; provided, that the person reports to the Village the
total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller and such other
information that the Village may reasonably require.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-9: CREDITS AND REFUNDS; TIME LIMIT:
Notwithstanding any other provision in this article, in order to permit sound
fiscal planning and budgeting by the Village, no person shall be entitled to a
refund of, or overpayment credit for, a tax imposed under this article unless
the persons files a claim for refund or credit within one year.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-10: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every person required by section 3-3B-6 of this article to collect the tax
imposed by subsection
3-3B-2A of this article, and each purchaser required by subsection
3-3B-7D of this article to file a purchaser’s tax return shall keep accurate
books and records of its business or activity, including contemporaneous books
and records denoting the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise,
to any tax liability under this article. The books and records shall be subject
to and available for inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
3-3B-11: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who fails to file a return and remit payment of the tax
imposed pursuant to subsection
3-3B-2A of this article, as required by section
3-3B7C-7 of this article, or who makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully
violates any other provisions of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense and, in addition thereto, shall be liable in a civil action for
the amount of the tax due.
   B.   Each day that a violation continues to exist or occur shall constitute
a separate offense for which a separate fine may be imposed.
   C.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any additional
or further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 99-5-5B, 5-5-1999)
ARTICLE C: MUNICIPAL NATURAL GAS USE TAX
Section
3-3C-1:   Short Title
3-3C-2:   Definitions
3-3C-3:   Tax Imposed; Rate; Regulations
3-3C-4:   Contract For Collection Of Tax
3-3C-5:   Books And Records
3-3C-6:   Administration And Enforcement Rules And Regulations
3-3C-7:   Interest, Fines And Penalties
3-3C-1: SHORT TITLE:
The tax imposed by this article shall be known as the VILLAGE OF ROSEMONT
MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the Village of Rosemont, the State of Illinois, or any other municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2005-12-7D, 12-7-2005)
3-3C-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of
any court.
PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT: The Public Utilities Act, as amended (220 ILCS 5/1-101 et
seq.)
PUBLIC UTILITY: As defined in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act.
RETAIL PURCHASER: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term RETAILER means any
person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas.
(Ord. 2005-12-7D, 12-7-2005)
3-3C-3: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by this article, a tax is imposed on the
privilege of using or consuming gas in the Village that is purchased in a sale
at retail. The tax shall be at the rate of five cents ($0.05) per therm.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this article shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
   C.   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser’s premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to section
3-3C-4 of this article on or before the payment due date of the public
utility's bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the Village Collector
on or before the fifteenth day of the second month following the month in which
the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public utility has been
designated to collect the tax pursuant to section
3-3C-4 of this article or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a
public utility so designated.
   D.   Nothing in this article shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the Constitutions of the United
States or State of Illinois, may not be made the subject of taxation by the
Village.
   E.   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this article with respect to the use or consumption of the gas,
but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the Finance Director on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   F.   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after February 1, 2006.
   G.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this article, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be: 1) credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; or 2) subject to a refund if no such tax is due or to become
due; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior
to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited or refunded.
   H.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
article shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount.
   I.   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the Village by a retail
purchaser properly subject to a tax imposed by the Village or any other
municipality with respect to the sale at retail of such gas including, but not
limited to, the tax imposed upon the seller of gas pursuant to the Village
municipal utility tax ordinance, article A of this chapter, as amended from
time to time, shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. 2006-1-11, 1-11-2006)
Editor’s note:
   This section is effective retroactive to January 1, 2006
3-3C-4: CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
The Village President and the Village Finance Officer are each authorized to
enter into a contract for collection of the tax imposed by this article with
any public utility providing gas service in the Village. The contract shall
include and substantially conform with the following provisions:
   A.   The public utility will collect the tax from retail purchasers as an
independent contractor;
   B.   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the Village Finance
Officer no more often than once each month;
   C.   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax collections a
service fee equal to three percent (3%) of the amounts collected and timely
remitted to the Village Finance Officer;
   D.   The public utility shall not be responsible to the Village for any tax
not actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
   E.   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon.
(Ord. 2005-12-7D, 12-7-2005)
3-3C-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including original source
documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability or exemption under this
article. All such books and records shall, at all times during business hours,
be subject to and available for inspection by the Village.
(Ord. 2006-1-11, 1-11-2006)
3-3C-6: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Village Finance Officer is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce
reasonable rules and regulations pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of this article; provided, that such rules and regulations shall
not conflict with the provisions of any contract that the Village may have
entered into with a public utility for the collection of the tax imposed by
this article.
(Ord. 2006-1-11, 1-11-2006)
3-3C-7: INTEREST, FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   If any tax due under this article which is required to be paid directly
to the Village Collector under subsection 3-3C-3C of this article is not paid
when due, the retail purchaser, in addition to the amount due, shall also be
liable to pay interest to the Village on the unpaid amount of the tax that
remains unpaid at a rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) for each one month
period or part thereof.
   B.   Any retail purchaser required to pay the tax imposed by this article
who wilfully fails to pay such tax when due shall, in addition to the amount of
tax due and any applicable fines and interest, be subject to a penalty in the
amount of twenty five percent (25%) of the principal amount of the tax that was
not paid when due.
   C.   If any retail purchaser violates the provisions of this article, such
retail purchaser shall, upon conviction or other adjudication of the violation,
be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day
or part thereof that a violation continues shall be considered to be a separate
violation.
(Ord. 2005-12-7D, 12-7-2005)
CHAPTER 4: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
Section
3-4-1:   Tax Imposed
3-4-1: TAX IMPOSED:
There is hereby imposed a simplified Municipal telecommunications tax pursuant
to 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 636/5-1 et seq. Copies of said tax are on file
in the Office of the Village Clerk for public use and inspection.
(2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5: HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX
Section
3-5-1:   Definitions
3-5-2:   Tax Imposed; Rate; Payment And Collection
3-5-3:   Contents And Inspections Of Books And Records
3-5-4:   Transmittal Of Tax Returns And Revenue By Owner; Delinquency
3-5-5:   Enforcement Of Payment
3-5-6:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses; Hearing
3-5-7:   Violations; Penalties
3-5-8:   Disposition Of Proceeds Of Tax And Fines
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, whenever any of the following words or terms
are used herein, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
HOTEL ROOM OR MOTEL ROOM: A room within a structure offered for rental and
containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental with or without
an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single hotel or motel room. The
number of hotel or motel rooms within a suite shall be computed on the basis of
those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
A "HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOM WITH KITCHEN FACILITIES" means a hotel or motel room
that allows for the preparation of meals and includes one or more of the
following:
   A.   An oven;
   B.   A stove top;
   C.   A refrigerator/freezer with a total capacity of more than five (5)
cubic feet;
   D.   Cabinets intended for the storage of food items; and
   E.   A counter, table or other flat surface intended to be used for the
preparation of meals.
OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the operation
of a hotel or motel room or receiving the consideration for the rental of a
hotel or motel room.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative, syndicate,
association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business trust,
institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation, district or
other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator,
user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other representative
acting either for himself or for any other person in any capacity, or any other
entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine,
feminine, singular or plural is included in any circumstances.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-11-13A, 11-13-2023; Ord. 2024-11-18F,
4-8-2024)
3-5-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; PAYMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of
renting a hotel or motel room within the Village a tax of seven percent (7.0%)
of the room rental rate (not including taxes or other non-room rental charges
added to the hotel bill) for each such hotel or motel room rented for every
twenty four (24) hour period or any fraction thereof; provided, however, that
this tax shall not be imposed upon any person subject to the tax as set forth
in Section
3-5-2(B). The tax, as provided in this Section
3-5-2(A), shall also not be levied and imposed upon an airline or employer that
books a block of two (2) or more hotel or motel rooms for a period of not less
than sixty (60) days and then provides the block of two (2) or more hotel or
motel rooms for a period of not less than sixty (60) consecutive days for use
by their employees.
   B.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of
renting a hotel or motel room within the same building in the Village for a
period of thirty (30) or more consecutive days, a tax at the rate of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each thirty (30)-day period and any prorated
fraction thereof. The tax, as provided in this Section 3-5-2(B), shall not be
levied and imposed if an employer books one (1) or more hotel or motel rooms
with kitchen facilities for a period of not less than thirty (30) days and then
provides the booked room(s) for a period of not less than thirty (30)
consecutive days for occupancy by employees of the employer. The tax imposed by
this Section
3-5-2(8) shall also not apply to:
      1.   Employees of the United States or the State of Illinois; or
      2.   Persons occupying the hotel or motel room or rooms as the result of
damage sustained to their customary owned or rented full-time residence located
within Illinois which renders it uninhabitable as a result of a fire, flood,
tornado or other casualty or natural disaster; or
      3.   Persons occupying the hotel or motel room for a period of not more
than six (6) months while the primary residence they own is undergoing
substantial renovation.
   C.   The tax, as provided in Sections
3-5-2(A) and
3-5-2(B), shall not be levied and imposed upon a professional athlete that
rents a hotel or motel room for a consecutive period that is less than three
hundred and sixty-five (365) days.
   D.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is to be
borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel
room, such person hereinafter referred to as "renter".
   E.   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or motel to
secure the tax from the renter of the hotel or motel room and to pay to the
Village the tax under procedures prescribed by the Village Finance Officer, or
as otherwise provided in this article.
   F.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this article shall
secure the tax from the renter at the time he collects the rental payment for
the hotel or motel room. Upon the invoice receipt or other statement or
memorandum of the rent given to the renter at the time of payment, the amount
due under the tax provided in this article shall be stated separately on the
documents.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2003-12-3D, 12-3-2003; Ord. 2023-11-13A,
11-13-2023; Ord. 2024-11-18F, 4-8-2024)
3-5-3: CONTENTS AND INSPECTIONS OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Village Finance Officer or his/her authorized
representative, shall at all times have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing:
      1.   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented and the period for each
rental. including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel room where such
shall occur; and
      2.   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the period of
each rental.
   B.   No person shall prevent, hinder, or interfere with the Village Finance
Officer or his/her authorized representative in the discharge of his/her duties
in the performance of this article.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-11-13A, 11-13-2023)
3-5-4: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX RETURNS AND REVENUE BY OWNER; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   1.   The owner or owners of each hotel or motel room within the Village
shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel
and motel room during each calendar month upon forms prescribed by the Village
Finance Officer. The return shall be due on or before the tenth day of the next
calendar month.
      2.   All reporting periods shall be full calendar months as provided in
subsection A1 of this section. At the time of filing such tax returns, the
owner shall pay to the Village Finance Officer all taxes due for the period to
which the tax return applies.
   B.   Each owner of a hotel or motel who collects the tax shall be entitled
to retain three fourths percent (0.75%) of the amount actually collected to
cover the cost of collecting and remitting the tax in a timely manner.
   C.   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid or remitted when due, a penalty
at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per thirty (30) day period, or
portion thereof, from the date of delinquency shall be added and paid to the
Village. In addition, the owner of a hotel or motel who fails to remit to the
Village any tax when due, shall not be entitled to retain any part of such tax
pursuant to subsection B of this section.
(Ord. 92-2-5A, 2-5-1992; amd. Ord. 2023-11-13A, 11-13-2023)
3-5-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the Village
Attorney shall, upon the request of the Village Finance Officer, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of the
Village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-11-13A, 11-13-2023)
3-5-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; HEARING:
   A.   If the President, after hearing held by or for him, shall find that any
person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this article, he may
suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such tax evader. The owner shall
have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, to be held not less than five
(5) days after he is notified of the time and place of the hearing. The notice
shall be addressed to the owner at his last known place of business.
   B.   Pending notice, hearing, and finding, any license which the owner may
possess may be temporarily suspended. Any suspension or revocation of any
license shall not release or discharge the owner from his civil liability for
the payment of the tax nor from prosecution for such offense.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-11-13A, 11-13-2023)
3-5-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting,
or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this article, except when otherwise specifically provided,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first offense and not less than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the
second and each subsequent offense in any one hundred eighty (180) day period.
All actions seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed and subject to
the Village's Administrative Hearing System established in
Article 4A of Title 1 of this Code.
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which said person shall continue any such violation or permit any such
violation to exist after notification thereof.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-11-13A, 11-13-2023)
3-5-8: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this article,
including penalties, shall be paid into the Treasury of the Village.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-11-13A, 11-13-2023)
CHAPTER 6: PARKING TAXES
ARTICLE A: PARKING LOT AND GARAGE OPERATIONS TAXES
Section
   
3-6A-1: Definitions
   
3-6A-2: Taxes Imposed; Rates; Exemptions; Payment And Collection
   
3-6A-3: Airport Parking Area
   
3-6A-4: Contents And Inspections Of Books And Records
   
3-6A-5: Transmittal Of Tax Returns And Revenues By Operator
   
3-6A-6 Parking Violation/Towing
   
3-6A-7: Enforcement Of Payment
   
3-6A-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses; Hearing
   
3-6A-9: Violations; Penalties
   
3-6A-10: Disposition Of Proceeds Of Taxes And Fines
   
3-6A-11:Publication Of Rules And Regulations
Cross-reference:
   See
title 4, chapter 15, article F  of this Code for parking lot and garage
regulations
3-6A-1:    DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words or terms
are used, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AIRPORT PARKING AREA: A parking area and/or portion of a parking area used by a
hotel or motel and intended for the overnight parking of any motor vehicle when
the operators of the motor vehicle is not entitled to rent, use or have access
a hotel/motel sleeping room.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled.
MOTOR VEHICLE DEAD STORAGE LOT OR DEAD STORAGE LOT: An area of land greater
than one thousand (1,000) square feet which is leased or rented to one person
or entity for the purpose of storing, when not in use, motor vehicles owned or
used as part of a business operated by such person or entity.
OPERATOR: Any person conducting the operation of a parking lot, garage, Airport
Parking Area or dead storage lot, as defined in this section, or receiving the
consideration for parking or storage of motor vehicles at such place.
PARKING LOT OR GARAGE: Any building, structure, premises, enclosure, or other
public place, whether enclosed or not, except a public way, within the Village
of Rosemont, where two (2) or more motor vehicles are stored, housed, or parked
for hire, charge, fee or other valuable consideration in a condition ready for
use, or where rent or compensation is paid to the owner, manager, or lessee of
the premises for the housing, storage, sheltering, keeping or maintaining of
such motor vehicles; provided,  however, that said terms shall not include
residential parking provided for single-family homes or multi-family dwellings
wherein an arrangement for such parking is provided on a rental basis, the
consideration therefor being set forth in the house or apartment lease, or in a
separate writing between a landlord and tenant, whether the parking charge is
payable to the landlord or to the operator of the parking lot or garage; and
provided further, however, that said terms shall not include motor vehicle dead
storage lots.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
3-6A-2:    TAXES IMPOSED; RATES; EXEMPTIONS; PAYMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Taxes Imposed; Rates:
      1.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of
parking a motor vehicle in or upon any parking lot or garage, as defined in
this article, in the Village a tax of two dollars ($2.00) for each such motor
vehicle parked in or on each parking lot or garage for every twenty four (24)
hour period, or any fraction thereof. If a motor vehicle is parked in or on a
parking lot or garage for which a charge is made on a weekly or monthly basis,
then the amount of tax shall be fourteen dollars ($14.00) per week or sixty
dollars ($60.00) per month. The parking privilege tax herein imposed applicable
for a period other than daily, weekly, or monthly, shall be computed by
multiplying the sum of two dollars ($2.00), fourteen dollars ($14.00) or sixty
dollars ($60.00),whichever amount is applicable, by the total number of days,
weeks or months in the particular period of time involved. The weekly tax of
fourteen dollars ($14.00) and the monthly tax of sixty dollars ($60.00) shall
not be increased or decreased on account of Saturdays, Sundays or legal
holidays falling within such weekly or monthly period of time, whether or not
the motor vehicle is actually parked in or on such parking lot or garage on
such days.
      2.   There is also hereby levied and imposed upon the use and privilege
of storing a motor vehicle in or upon any dead storage lot, as defined in this
article, in the Village a tax of two dollars ($2.00) per one thousand square
feet (1,000'), or any fraction thereof, per month, for land which is used as a
dead storage lot.
   B.   Liability For Payment: The ultimate incidence of and liability for
payment of said taxes is to be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of
occupying space within the parking lot or garage, said person hereinafter
referred to as "recipient".
   C.   Exemptions From Taxes: The taxes imposed by this article shall not
apply to residential off street parking provided for single-family homes or
multiple-family dwelling units, wherein an arrangement for such parking is
provided in the lease or in a separate writing, whether the parking charge is
payable to the landlord or to the operator of the parking lot or garage.
   D.   Taxes Are Additional; Payment: The taxes herein levied shall be paid in
addition to any and all other taxes. It shall be the duty of the Operator to
secure the taxes from the recipient of the parking privilege and to pay to the
Finance Director the taxes under procedures prescribed by the Finance Director,
and as otherwise provided in this article.
   E.   Collection Of Taxes: Every person required to collect the taxes levied
by this article shall secure said taxes from the recipient at the time he
collects the price, charge or rent to which it applies. If the recipient is
given any invoice, receipt or other statement or memorandum of the price,
charge or rent paid or payable, the taxes shall be stated, charged and shown
separately on said documents.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2000-12-6C, 12-6-2000; Ord. 2023-12-11B,
12-11-2023)
3-6A-3:    AIRPORT PARKING AREA:
The Airport Parking Area shall have a specifically defined boundaries and a
delineated number of parking spaces as approved by Village as part of a special
use permit to which ingress and egress is controlled by a gate or other method
that only allows access to the Airport Parking Area by motor vehicles only
during periods of time when the operators of the motor vehicle are not entitled
to rent, use or access a hotel/motel room. All Airport Parking Areas must be
established pursuant to a special use permit from the Village for the operation
of a commercial long term airport parking lot.
3-6A-4:    CONTENTS AND INSPECTIONS OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every operator to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Finance Director, or authorized representative,
shall at all times have full access during an audit conducted pursuant to
Chapter 1 of Title 3, "Tax Rights and Responsibilities" which records shall
include daily sheets showing:
      1.   The number of motor vehicles parking in or on each lot or garage,
segregated on a daily, weekly, monthly, or, in the case of dead storage lots,
the amount of land leased for said purpose; and
      2.   The actual parking lot, garage or dead storage lot tax receipts
collected from all transactions.
   B.   The Finance Director, or any person certified by him as his
representative, may enter the premises of any parking lot, garage, Airport
Parking Area, Hotel, or Motel for inspection and examination of books and
records for the proper administration of this article during an audit conducted
pursuant to Chapter 1 of Title 3, "Tax Rights and Responsibilities."
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the
Finance Director, or his duly authorized representative, in the discharge of
his duties in the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
3-6A-5:    TRANSMITTAL OF TAX RETURNS AND REVENUES BY OPERATOR:
Every Operator shall file tax returns with the Finance Director showing tax
receipts received with respect to each parking lot, garage, dead storage lot
and Airport Parking Area for a calendar month no later than the last day of the
following calendar month. Such tax returns shall utilize or be upon forms
prescribed by the Finance Director. At the time of filing a monthly tax return,
the operator shall pay to the Finance Director all taxes due for the calendar
month to which the tax return applies.
(Ord. 2000-12-6C, 12-6-2000; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
3-6A-6:    PARKING VIOLATION/TOWING:
Effective as of January 1, 2024, it shall be a violation of this code for any
operator of a hotel/motel, to allow motor vehicles to be parked in any area
other than an Airport Parking Area, on any day when the operator of the vehicle
does not have the authorization to use or have access to use any sleeping room
or other area within the hotel/motel. This section shall not apply to hotel/
motel employees, attendees at a conference/event held at the hotel/motel,
patrons of a restaurant located within the hotel/motel, and contractors
authorized to perform work at the hotel/motel. In addition to the penalties
provided for in Section 3-6A-7, the hotel/motel upon the posting of adequate
notices as required by law, may cause or request the towing of vehicles parked
in violation of this section.
(Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
3-6A-7:    ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the Village
Attorney shall, upon the request of the Finance Director, bring or cause to be
brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax in behalf of the Village in
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
3-6A-8:    SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; HEARING:
   A.   If the Village President, after hearing held by or for him, shall find
that any person has wilfully avoided payment of the taxes imposed by this
article, he may suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such tax evader.
The operator shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held
not less than five (5) days after notice of the time and place of the hearing,
addressed to him at his last known place of business.
   B.   Pending notice, hearing and finding, any Village garage license which
the owner may possess shall be temporarily suspended. Any suspension or
revocation of any license shall not release or discharge the operator of a
parking lot or garage from his civil liberty for the repayment of the taxes nor
from prosecution for such offense.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
3-6A-9:    VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting
or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this article, except when otherwise specifically provided,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first offense, and not less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for the second and each subsequent offense in any one hundred eighty (180) day
period; provided, however, that all actions seeking the imposition of fines
only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions and adjudicated under the
Village's Administrative adjudication system.
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such
violation to exist after notification thereof.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
3-6A-10:   DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF TAXES AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the taxes under this article,
including penalties, shall be paid into the Treasury of the Village and shall
be credited to and deposited in the corporate funds of the Village.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
3-6A-11:   PUBLICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Finance Director may make and publish, in pamphlet form, for distribution
to the public, rules and regulations appropriate to and in furtherance of the
purpose of this article.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11B, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 7: EATING ESTABLISHMENTS TAX
Section
3-7-1:   Definitions
3-7-2:   Tax Imposed; Rate; Payment, Collection And Exemptions
3-7-3:   Contents And Inspections Of Books And Records
3-7-4:   Transmittal Of Tax Return And Revenue By Owner; Delinquency
3-7-5:   Enforcement Of Payment
3-7-6:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses; Hearing
3-7-7:   Violations; Penalties
Cross-reference:
   See
title 4, chapter 20 , articles A through E of this Code for food and food
service establishments
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received, valued in money, whether received
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, property, and services at a
place for eating for food and beverages furnished at the place for eating which
are consumed at the place for eating. "Gross receipts" do not include amounts
paid for Federal, State and local taxes, including the tax levied by this
chapter, and do not include amounts paid as gratuities for the employees of the
place for eating.
OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the operation
of a place for eating.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, club, fraternal
organization, or a receiver, executor, trustee, conservator or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
PLACES FOR EATING: All premises located within the corporate limits of the
Village of Rosemont where food and/or beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises. "Places for eating" include, but are not limited to restaurants,
cocktail lounges, taverns, banquet facilities, hotel/motel room service, and
food courts or kiosks in an indoor shopping mall which provide food/beverages
that are ready to eat.
(Ord. 81-11-18B, 11-18-1981; amd. Ord. 2013-9-11A, 9-11-2013)
3-7-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; PAYMENT, COLLECTION AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon owners of places for eating a
tax at the rate of one percent (1%) of gross receipts received for food and
beverages furnished by the owner on or after January 1, 1982.
   B.   The owner of a place for eating may collect an amount from persons who
purchase food and beverages at the place for eating which shall reimburse the
owner for the tax imposed on the owner by this chapter.
   C.   The tax levied by this chapter shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges.
   D.   In the event that there is a sale of food and beverages on credit, an
owner shall not be liable for payment of the tax imposed by this chapter on
such a sale until he receives payment for the sale.
(Ord. 81-11-18B, 11-18-1981)
3-7-3: CONTENTS AND INSPECTIONS OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Finance Director, or their deputies or
representatives, shall at all times have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing the amount of gross receipts received during that
day.
   B.   The Finance Director or any person certified by either of them as their
deputy or representative, may enter the premises of any place for eating for
inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration of this chapter and to assure the enforcement of the
collection of the tax imposed.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the Finance Director, or their duly authorized deputies or
representatives, in the discharge of their duties in the performance of this
chapter.
(Ord. 81-11-18B, 11-18-1981)
3-7-4: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX RETURN AND REVENUE BY OWNER; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   The owner or owners of each place for eating shall file tax returns
showing the gross receipts received during each calendar month period upon
forms prescribed by the Village Finance Officer. Returns for each calendar
month shall be due on or before the last day of the next calendar month, i.e.,
the return for January shall be due on or before the last day of February; the
return for February shall be due on or before the last day of March, etc. At
the time of the filing of said tax returns, the owner shall pay to the Finance
Director all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   B.   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of one percent (1%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof, from the
day of delinquency shall be added and collected.
(Ord. 81-11-18B, 11-18-1981)
3-7-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay the tax imposed by this chapter, the
Village Attorney shall, upon request of the Village President, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of the
Village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 81-11-18B, 11-18-1981)
3-7-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; HEARING:
If the Village President, after a hearing held by or for him, shall find that
any owner has wilfully avoided the payment of any tax imposed by this chapter,
he may suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such tax evader. The
owner shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less
than seven (7) days after being mailed notice of the time when and the place
where the hearing is to be held, addressed to him at his last known place of
business. Any suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or
discharge the owner from his civil liability for the payment of the tax nor
from prosecution from such offense.
(Ord. 81-11-18B, 11-18-1981)
3-7-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying omitting, neglecting,
or refusing to comply with or unlawfully resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically
provided, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first offense, and not less than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in any one hundred eighty
(180) day period; provided, however, that all actions seeking the imposition of
fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions
of the Illinois Civil Practice Law (735 ILCS 5/2-101 et seq.)
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which a person shall continue any violation of this chapter or permit any
such violation to exist after notification thereof.
   C.   Any owner subjected to the penalties provided by this section shall not
be discharged or released from the payment of any tax.
(Ord. 81-11-25, 11-25-1981)
ARTICLE A: EATING ESTABLISHMENTS TAX - OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION
Section
3-7A-1:   Definitions
3-7A-2:   Tax Imposed; Rate; Payment, Collection And Exemptions
3-7A-3:   Contents And Inspections Of Books And Records
3-7A-4:   Transmittal Of Tax Return And Revenue By Owner; Delinquency
3-7A-5:   Enforcement Of Payment
3-7A-6:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses; Hearing
3-7A-7:   Violations; Penalties
3-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received, valued in money, whether received
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, property, and services at a
place for eating for food and/or beverages provided by take-out or delivery and
intended to be consumed at some place other than the place for eating. "Gross
receipts" do not include amounts paid for Federal, State and local taxes,
including the tax levied by this chapter, and do not include amounts paid as
gratuities for the employees of the place for eating.
OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the operation
of a place for eating.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, club, fraternal
organization, or a receiver, executor, trustee, conservator or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
PLACES FOR EATING: All premises located within the corporate limits of the
Village of Rosemont where food and/or beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises. "Places for eating" include, but are not limited to restaurants,
cocktail lounges, taverns, banquet facilities, hotel/motel room service, and
food courts or kiosks or other stores/locations in an indoor shopping mall
which provide food/beverages that are ready to eat. "Places for eating" do not
include grocery stores, gasoline stations, or other stores/locations not within
an indoor shopping mall that do not have a designated seating area for the
consumption of food and/or beverages on their premises.
(Ord. 2021-3-8A, 3-8-2021)
3-7A-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; PAYMENT, COLLECTION AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon owners of places for eating, as
defined in this chapter, a tax at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts (as defined in this chapter 7A) received for food and/or beverages
furnished by the owner on or after April 1, 2021.
   B.   The owner of a place for eating may collect an amount from persons who
purchase food and/or beverages at the place for eating which shall reimburse
the owner for the tax imposed on the owner by this chapter 7A.
   C.   The tax levied by this chapter 7A shall be paid in addition to any and
all other taxes and charges. Except, in order to avoid double taxation of the
same transaction, it is the intent of this chapter 7A to tax a transaction
under either chapter 7 of this title which applies to food and/or beverages
consumed on the premises or chapter 7A of this title which applies to food and/
or beverages consumed off the premises. If a sale of food and/or beverages may
in full or in part be subject to taxation under both this chapter 7A and
chapter 7 of this title 3, the owner may satisfy its obligations under both
chapter 7 and chapter 7A of title 3 by taxing the entire amount of the
transaction under either chapter 7 or chapter 7A of this title 3.
   D.   In the event that there is a sale of food and beverages on credit, an
owner shall not be liable for payment of the tax imposed by this chapter on
such a sale until he receives payment for the sale.
(Ord. 2021-3-8A, 3-8-2021)
3-7A-3: CONTENTS AND INSPECTIONS OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Finance Director, or their deputies or
representatives, shall at all times have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing the amount of gross receipts received during that
day.
   B.   The Finance Director or any person certified by either of them as their
deputy or representative, may enter the premises of any place for eating for
inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration of this chapter and to assure the enforcement of the
collection of the tax imposed.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the Finance Director, or their duly authorized deputies or
representatives, in the discharge of their duties in the performance of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2021-3-8A, 3-8-2021)
3-7A-4: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX RETURN AND REVENUE BY OWNER; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   The owner or owners of each place for eating shall file tax returns
showing the gross receipts received during each calendar month period upon
forms prescribed by the Village Finance Officer. Returns for each calendar
month shall be due on or before the last day of the next calendar month, the
return for January shall be due on or before the last day of February; the
return for February shall be due on or before the last day of March, and so on.
At the time of the filing of said tax returns, the owner shall pay to the
Finance Director all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   B.   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of one percent (1%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof, from the
day of delinquency shall be added and collected.
(Ord. 2021-3-8A, 3-8-2021)
3-7A-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay the tax imposed by this chapter, the
Village Attorney shall, upon request of the Village President, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of the
Village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-3-8A, 3-8-2021)
3-7A-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; HEARING:
If the Village President, or a Hearing Officer appointed to adjudicate claimed
violations under chapter 4A of title 1 of this Code ("Administrative Hearing
System"), after a hearing held by or for him or her, shall find that any owner
has willfully avoided the payment of any tax imposed by this chapter, he may
suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such tax evader. The owner shall
have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than seven
(7) days after being mailed notice of the time when and the place where the
hearing is to be held, addressed to him at his last known place of business.
Any suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or discharge the
owner from his civil liability for the payment of the tax nor from prosecution
from such offense.
(Ord. 2021-3-8A, 3-8-2021)
3-7A-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying omitting, neglecting,
or refusing to comply with or unlawfully resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically
provided, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first offense, and not less than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in any one hundred eighty
(180) day period; provided, however, that all actions seeking the imposition of
fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions
of the Illinois Civil Practice Law (735 ILCS 5/2-101 et seq.) or otherwise
adjudicated under chapter 4A of title 1 of this Code ("Administrative Hearing
System").
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which a person shall continue any violation of this chapter or permit any
such violation to exist after notification thereof.
   C.   Any owner subjected to the penalties provided by this section shall not
be discharged or released from the payment of any tax.
(Ord. 2021-3-8A, 3-8-2021)
CHAPTER 8: AMUSEMENT TAX
Section
3-8-1:   Definition
3-8-2:   Tax Imposed; Rate
3-8-3:   Exemptions, Deductions And Allowances
3-8-4:   Tax Returns And Payment
3-8-5:   Inspection Of Books And Records
3-8-6:   Enforcement Of Payment
3-8-7:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses; Hearing
3-8-8:   Violations; Penalties
Cross-reference:
   See
title 4, chapter 7, article A  of this Code for general amusement regulations
3-8-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term AMUSEMENT means:
   A.   Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance; motion
picture show; flower, poultry or animal show; and animal act, circus, rodeo,
athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment
including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing,
swimming, racing or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling,
billiards and pool.
   B.   Any entertainment offered for public participation including, without
being limited to, dancing, carnival, amusement park rides and games; and
bowling, billiards and pool games.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2022-2-14, 2-14-2022)
3-8-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   For all amusements held before January 1, 2024 and for all amusements
for which tickets go on sale prior to January 1, 2024, a tax is imposed in an
amount equal to four percent (4%) of the gross receipts from admission fees or
other charges, exclusive of Federal or State taxes, to witness or to
participate in such amusements. No person shall produce, present or conduct any
amusements, for gain or profit, without payment of the tax. Purchasers of
tickets for all sporting event amusements shall be subject to the four percent
(4%) amusement tax rate for:
      1.   The entirety of the sports team's 2023-2024 season through the end
of all games played for the 2023-24 season if the season began prior to January
1, 2024; or
      2.   The entirety of the sports teams 2024 season if the season did not
begin prior to January 1, 2024 and tickets were available for purchase prior to
January 1, 2024.
   B.   For all amusements that are not subject to Section 3-8-2(A), a tax is
imposed upon the privilege of viewing or participating in the amusement within
the Village of an amount equal to six percent (6%) of the gross receipts from
admission fees or other charges, exclusive of Federal or State taxes, to
witness or to participate in such amusements. The tax shall be collected by the
persons or entity producing, presenting or conducting any amusement. No person
shall produce, present or conduct any amusements, for gain or profit, without
collecting the payment of the tax.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2022-2-14, 2-14-2022; Ord. 2022-3-14, 3-14-
2022; Ord. 2023-12-11A, 12-11-2023)
3-8-3: EXEMPTIONS, DEDUCTIONS AND ALLOWANCES:
Exemptions From Tax: Military Training Allowance: A one percent (1%) military
training allowance from the tax imposed pursuant to section
3-8-2 of this chapter is hereby granted for participation in an indoor
simulated skydiving amusement. Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary
in section
3-8-2 of this chapter, the tax rate imposed by Section
3-8-3 shall be reduced by one percent (1%) for an indoor simulated skydiving
amusement.
(Ord. 2012-8-8D, 8-8-2012; amd. Ord. 2013-5-8, 5-8-2013; Ord. 2022-2-14, 2-14-
2022)
3-8-4: TAX RETURNS AND PAYMENT:
On or before the tenth day of each month following the end of each quarter in
the calendar year, each person/entity liable for the collection of the
amusement tax herein imposed shall make a report upon forms prescribed by the
Village Finance Officer and file it with the Finance Director stating the total
amount collected during the preceding quarter for admission fees or charges to
each amusement produced, presented, or conducted, exclusive of any tax imposed
on such admission fees/charges by the United States of America or the State. At
the time of the filing of said tax returns, the owner shall pay to the Finance
Director all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies. If, for
any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate of one percent
(1%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof, from the day of
delinquency shall be added and collected.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2022-2-14, 2-14-2022)
3-8-5: INSPECTION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The Finance Director, either personally or through his authorized agents, shall
have the right at all reasonable times to inspect and check the books and
records of any amusement or person/entity liable for the collection of such tax
insofar as they pertain to admissions.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2022-2-14, 2-14-2022)
3-8-6: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay the tax imposed by this chapter, the
Village Attorney shall, upon request of the Village President, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of the
Village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2022-2-14, 2-14-2022)
3-8-7: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; HEARING:
If the Village President, or a Hearing Officer appointed to adjudicate claimed
violations under
chapter 4A of title 1 of this Code ("Administrative Hearing System"), after a
hearing held by or for him or her, shall find that any person/entity willfully
avoided the collection and payment of the tax imposed by this chapter to the
Village, he/she may suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such person/
entity. The person/entity that failed to comply with this Chapter shall have an
opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than seven (7) days
after being mailed notice of the time when and the place where the hearing is
to be held, addressed to him at his last known place of business. Any
suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or discharge any
person/entity from his civil liability for the payment of the tax nor from
prosecution from such offense.
(Ord. 2022-2-14, 2-14-2022)
3-8-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying omitting, neglecting,
or refusing to comply with or unlawfully resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the
first offense, and not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the second and each subsequent
offense in any one hundred eighty (180) day period; provided, however, that all
actions seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal
actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois Civil Practice Law (735 ILCS
5/2-101 et seq.) or otherwise adjudicated under
chapter 4A of title 1 of this Code ("Administrative Hearing System").
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which a person shall continue any violation of this chapter or permit any
such violation to exist after notification thereof.
   C.   Any person/entity subjected to the penalties provided by this section
shall not be discharged or released from the payment of any tax. and any
interest or penalties imposed pursuant to either this Chapter or
Title 3, Chapter 1 of this Code titled, "Tax Rights and Responsibilities."
(Ord. 78-9-11, 9-11-1978; amd. Ord. 2022-2-14, 2-14-2022)
CHAPTER 9: GASOLINE TAX
Section
3-9-1:   Definitions
3-9-2:   Tax Imposed; Rate; Payment And Collection
3-9-3:   Contents And Inspections Of Books And Records
3-9-4:   Transmittal Of Tax Returns And Revenues By Owner; Delinquency
3-9-5:   Enforcement Of Payment
3-9-6:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses; Hearing
3-9-7:   Penalties
3-9-8:   Disposition Of Proceeds Of Tax And Fines
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, whenever any of the following words or terms
are used herein, they shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
GASOLINE: All volatile and combustible liquids produced, blended or compounded
for the purpose of, or which are suitable or practicable for, operating motor
vehicles. Among other things, GASOLINE includes fuel used in diesel engines.
OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the operation
of selling gasoline at retail within the Village.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative, syndicate,
association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business trust,
institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation, district or
other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator,
user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other representative,
acting either for himself or for any other person in any capacity, or any other
entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine,
feminine, singular or plural is included in any circumstances.
(Ord. 2013-7-10C, 7-10-2013)
3-9-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; PAYMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed upon the purchase of each gallon of
gasoline sold at retail within the Village a tax of two cents ($0.02).
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax is to
be borne by the person who purchases the gasoline, said person hereinafter
referred to as “purchaser”.
   C.   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every establishment
selling gasoline at retail to secure the tax from the purchaser and to pay to
the Village Finance Director the tax under procedures prescribed by the Village
Finance Director, or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   D.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall
secure said tax from the purchaser at the time he collects the purchase price
for the gasoline.
(Ord. 2013-7-10C, 7-10-2013)
3-9-3: CONTENTS AND INSPECTIONS OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Finance Director, or his deputy or representative
(authorized by him), shall at all times have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing the number of gallons of gasoline sold.
   B.   The Finance Director, or any person certified by him as his deputy or
representative, may enter the premises of any person selling gasoline at retail
to inspect and examine his books and records in order to effectuate the proper
administration of this chapter and to assure the enforcement of the collection
of the tax imposed.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the Finance Director, or his duly authorized deputy or representative, in
the discharge of his duties in the performance of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-7-10C, 7-10-2013)
3-9-4: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX RETURNS AND REVENUE BY OWNER; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   The owner or owners of each establishment selling gasoline at retail
within the Village shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with
respect to all gasoline sold during each quarter, commencing on and including
January 1 through March 31; April 1 through June 30; July 1 through September
30; and October 1 through December 31, upon forms prescribed by the Finance
Director. The returns shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of the
calendar month succeeding the end of each quarterly filing period. At the time
of filing said tax returns, the owner shall pay to the Finance Director all
taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   B.   Any owner of any establishment selling gasoline at retail who, for the
preceding quarterly period, has failed to file a proper return or pay the
proper amount of tax to the Finance Director may be required by the Finance
Director, in his discretion, to file subsequent returns and pay the tax herein
imposed on a monthly basis, in which case, payments of the tax shall be made to
the Finance Director on or before the fifteenth day of the month succeeding the
month for which the tax was due.
   C.   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, interest and penalties
shall be assessed and paid.
(Ord. 2013-7-10C, 7-10-2013)
3-9-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the Village
Attorney shall, upon the request of the Village Finance Officer, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the
Village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2013-7-10C, 7-10-2013)
3-9-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; HEARING:
If the Village President, after a hearing held by or for him, shall find that
any person has wilfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this chapter, he
may suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such tax evader. The owner
shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than
five (5) days after notice of the time and place of the hearing to be held,
addressed to him at his last known place of business. Any suspension or
revocation of any license shall not release or discharge the owner from his
civil liability for the payment of the tax nor from prosecution for such
offense.
(Ord. 2013-7-10C, 7-10-2013)
3-9-7: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically provided,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first offense, and not less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for the second and each subsequent offense in any one hundred eighty (180) day
period; provided, however, that all actions seeking the imposition of fines
only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the
Illinois Civil Practice Law (735 ILCS 5/2-101 et seq.) A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall
continue any such violation or permit any such violation to exist after
notification thereof.
(Ord. 2013-7-10C, 7-10-2013)
3-9-8: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into the Treasury of the Village.
(Ord. 2013-7-10C, 7-10-2013)
CHAPTER 10: VILLAGE FEE SCHEDULE
Section
3-10-1:   Fee Schedule
3-10-1: FEE SCHEDULE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or operate any business,
trade; or occupation named in this section without paying in advance the
license or other fee listed below. Such fees upon collection shall become part
of the corporate fund or such other fund as the Village Board shall determine.
Any renewal fee which is not received on or before the due date shall be
increased in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the license fee hereinafter
set forth, unless otherwise stated.
   A.   Liquor Licenses:
Liquor Licenses Certification Fee
Liquor Licenses Certification           Fee
Class A license                         $4,500 annually
Class B license                         $3,000 annually
Class B(1) license                      $3,000 annually
Class B(2) license                      $3,000 annually
Class B(3) license                      $1,000 annually
Class B(4) license                      $3,000 annually
Class C license                         $1,000 annually
Class D license                         $2,000 annually
Class E license                         $1,500 annually
Class E(1) license (without E(3)        $3,500 annually
license)
Class E(2) license                      $500 annually
Class E(3) license (includes required E $3,500 annually
(1) license)
Class F license                         $2,500 annually
Class G license                         $25 per day
Class I license                         $1,500 annually
Class I(1) license                      $1,500 annually
Class J license                         $100 per special circumstance
Class K license                         $3,500 annually
Class L license                         $3,000 annually
Class M license                         $500 annually in addition to the class
                                        fee for a Class A license
Class N license                         $50 per day, per location
Class N(1) license                      $500 annually
Class O license                         $500 annually in addition to the annual
                                        fee for a Class B license
Class P license                         $500 annually in addition to the fee
                                        for any other liquor license required
Class S license                         $50 per day, per location
Class W license                         $100 per each event
Class W(1) license                      $100 per each event
Class BYOB                              $250 annually
                                        $1,000 (fee is for both the Class VG
                                        and the video gaming establishment
Class VG license                        licenses issued by the Village and is
                                        in addition to the liquor license fees
                                        for the Class A, Class B, Class E(1),
                                        Class E(3), and Class L licenses)
Extended 4:00 A.M. liquor license       $500 annually, in addition to any other
                                        liquor license required by this Code
Liquor license application fee (does    $200
not apply to the Class VG license)
                                        $1,000 for the first year which
Liquor license application fee for a    includes all construction permits and
Class VG license and a video gaming     inspections for the gaming room; the
establishment license                   application fee for subsequent annual
                                        renewals is $500
 
   B.   Video Gaming Terminal Operators:
 
Video Gaming Terminal Operators                   Amount
Village terminal operator’s license application $500
fee
Annual tax for each video gaming terminal located $1,500 per each video gaming
in the Village                                    terminal
 
   C.   Business Licenses:
Business Licenses Classification Annual Fee (Unless Otherwise Noted)
Business Licenses Classification                Annual Fee (Unless Otherwise
                                                Noted)
Alarm system installation                       $100
Auctioneers without Illinois license            $100
Auctioneers with Illinois license               $0
Auction, per day                                $50
Bakery                                          $100
Bank                                            $100
Barber shop                                     $100
Bowling alley                                   $100 plus $50 for each lane
                                                greater than ten
Building contractor                             $100
Building subcontractor                          $50
Bus transport                                   $150
Cannabis – retail sale                        $250
Car rental agency                               $100
Car wash                                        $300
Catering service                                $300
Commercial offices – tenant certificate of    $50 (January 1 – June 30)
registration
Charitable solicitation                         $0
Chiropractor                                    $100
Cigarette and tobacco dealer – retail sale of $100
tobacco
Cleaning and dyeing                             $100
Cleaning service                                $100
Clothing/general merchandise                    $100
                                                Application fee: $150 per
                                                project (non-refundable)
                                                 
                                                Use of public safety or other
                                                village personnel (whether
                                                requested or not): $40 per
                                                hour, per village employee
                                                 
                                                Total/disruptive use of public
                                                building: $500 per day plus $70
                                                per hour for each hour thereof
                                                beyond regular operating hours
                                                 
                                                Partial/nondisruptive use of
                                                public building: $250 per day
Commercial filming and taping                   plus $35 per hour for each hour
                                                thereof beyond regular
                                                operating hours
                                                 
                                                Total closure of public street,
                                                park area, or right-of-way: $75
                                                per hour
                                                 
                                                Partial closure or obstruction
                                                of public street, park area, or
                                                right-of-way: $50 per hour
                                                 
                                                Usage of village vehicles/
                                                equipment: $50 per hour
                                                 
                                                $1,000 surety bond, per project
Cottage food                                    $50
Currency exchange                               $100
Day nursery (child care)                        $500
Dental office                                   $50
Drivers training                                Greater of $100 or $20 each
                                                vehicle
Equipment sales and repair                      $100
Employment/staffing agency                      $100
Entertainment/sports venue                      $300
Exterminator (see pest/insect control services) $100
Financial services                              $100
Fire extinguisher service                       $100
Fireworks display permit                        $500
Flammable liquids and hazardous chemical        $450
handling
Flea marker                                     $500
Florist                                         $100
Food vending ($0.50 or less)                    $20
Food vending ($0.50 or more)                    $50
Food – candy confectionary                    $100
Food – catering                               $300
Food – ice cream                              $100
Fork lift dealer                                $100
Funeral home                                    $200
Gas station                                     $300 per tank
Grocery store/deli                              $100
Gun show                                        $100
Hair/nail salon                                 $100
Hardware and paint store                        $100
Health care – in home                         $100
Heating, ventilating and air conditioning       $100
contractors
Hotel and motel (per room)                      $7
Indoor theatre                                  $500
Insurance non-broker                            $100
Laboratory                                      $100
Landscaping                                     $100
Laundromat                                      $100 plus $10 per each machine
                                                over ten machines
Laundry                                         $500
Mall – Food court/Kiosk                       $100
Machine shop                                    $100
Manufacturing                                   $100
Massage business license                        $300
Convention massage license                      $20
FOC massage license                             $100
Messenger service                               $100
Microblade artist license                       $100
Microblade business license                     $250
Mini mart                                       $100
Mobile food vending                             $100 each mobile food vehicle
Motor vehicle parts                             $100
Motor vehicle sales                             $500
Motor vehicle services                          $200
Motor vehicle storage                           $100
Motor vehicle towing                            $100
Non-profit                                      $0
Parking lot or garage                           $500
Peddlers/commercial solicitor                   $200
Personal training                               $100
Pest or insect control services (exterminator)  $100
Pharmacy                                        $100
Print shop or copying service                   $100
Retail/wholesale of goods (unless otherwise
licensed under this section), including         $100
temporary retailers
Restaurants                                      
1 to 200 seats                                  $100
201 to 350 seats                                $200
over 350 seats                                  $250
Sales and marketing                             $100
Scavenger                                       $1,000
Shuttle service                                 $100
Sightseeing service                             $200
Skydiving, includes indoor                      $100
Taxicab and limousine (no more than 60 taxicab  $500 (per company)
licenses shall be issued)                       $100 (per vehicle)
Taxi and limo dispatch                          $500
Temporary food vendor                           $25
Trade show contractor                           $100
Travel agency                                   $100
Valet parking service                           $100
Veterinary hospital                             $100
Waste disposal                                  $500
Wholesaler of goods and services                $100
 
   D.   Vehicle Licenses:
Vehicle Licenses Classification Annual Fee
Vehicle Licenses Classification                     Annual Fee
Passenger automobile                                $3
                                                    $10 (after February 15)
Motorcycles, motor bikes, mopeds                    $3
                                                    $10 (after February 15)
B plate                                             $30
D plate                                             $55
F through H plate                                   $75
24,001 pound and over or more than seven passengers $100
Recreational vehicle                                $75
 
   E.   Residential Rental Property:
 
Residential Rental Property Classification Annual Fee
Licensing fee                              $40 per unit
30 days past due                           Double amount due – $80 per unit
 
   F.   Miscellaneous Licenses:
Classification Annual Fee
Classification                      Annual Fee
Amusement machine                   $50 each
Animal license                      $4
Commercial establishment antenna/   $25 (per antenna/satellite)
satellite permit
Charitable solicitation permit      $25
Juke box                            $100
                                    $100 annually or $10 per day up to nine
Live entertainment permit           days (excluding live entertainment
                                    performed on village-owned property)
Pictures at Monument Park and Dunne Residents – free
Park                                Non-residents – $50 per 30 minutes
Raffle                              $5
Tent permit                         $50 plus $10 each day
 
   G.   Building Permits:
Building Permits Classification Fee
Building Permits Classification                                            Fee
                                                                           Residential:
                                                                           $25, single-family
                                                                           $75 plus $10 each dwelling unit up to 12 units, multi- family
                                                                            
                                                                           Non-residential:
                                                                           $200 per building with a floor area of 10,000 square feet or less
                                                                            
                                                                           $350 per building with a floor area between 10,000 square feet and 40,000
Advance water                                                              square feet
                                                                            
                                                                           $500 per building with a floor area between 40,000 square feet and 200,000
                                                                           square feet
                                                                            
                                                                           $750 per building with a floor area between 200,000 square feet and 400,000
                                                                           square feet
                                                                            
                                                                           $1,000 per building with a floor area of 400,000 square feet or more
                                                                           Residential: $75
                                                                            
                                                                           Commercial/retail:
                                                                           < 5,000 square feet: $1,090
                                                                           5,000-9,999 square feet: $1,260
                                                                           10,000-49,999 square feet: $1,705
                                                                           50,000+ square feet: $5,335
                                                                            
                                                                           Restaurant:
                                                                           < 5,000 square feet: $1,180
                                                                           5,000-9,999 square feet: $1,610
Alteration or remodeling                                                   10,000+ square feet: $2,670
                                                                            
                                                                           Industrial:
                                                                           < 5,000 square feet: $995
                                                                           5,000-9,999 square feet: $1,130
                                                                           10,000-49,999 square feet: $1,525
                                                                           50,000+ square feet: $2,650
                                                                            
                                                                           Office:
                                                                           < 5,000 square feet: $1,310
                                                                           5,000-9,999 square feet: $1,615
                                                                           10,000-49,999 square feet: $2,495
                                                                           50,000+ square feet: $4,605
                                                                           Less than five acres (plus actual recording fees): $320
                                                                            
                                                                           Five-9.99 acres (plus actual recording fees): $530
Application fees for preliminary and final plats                            
                                                                           10-49.99 acres (plus actual recording fees): $640
                                                                            
                                                                           More than 50 acres (plus actual recording fees): $750
                                                                           One and two-family multiple residence structure: $2,800
                                                                            
                                                                           Commercial or industrial:
                                                                           < 10,000 square feet: $4,750
Basic building fee                                                         10,000 – 49,999 square feet: $5,280
                                                                           50,000+ square feet: $7,940
                                                                            
                                                                           Accessory residential structure: $350
                                                                            
                                                                           Renewal: 25% of original fee
Building relocation                                                        $100 plus $0.35 per square foot of floor area
                                                                           < 10,000 square feet: $200
Certificate of occupancy (per certificate)                                 10,000 – 49,999 square feet: $365
                                                                           50,000+ square feet: $705
Curb cut                                                                   $525
Demolition                                                                 $50
Driveways                                                                  $25, single-family
                                                                           $100, industrial/commercial/multi-family
                                                                           Per inspection:
Electrical inspection                                                      Residential: $50
                                                                           Industrial/commercial: $100
Electrical permit                                                          Residential: $50
                                                                           Industrial/commercial: $100
                                                                           Standard fire alarm system: $25
                                                                           Emergency lighting system: $25
Electrical plans examination                                               Motor control center: $25
                                                                           Hospital complete: $25
                                                                           Theater complete: $25
                                                                           All others (per hour, one hour minimum): $30
                                                                           Plan review and approval: $60
Elevator inspection                                                        Inspection and certification: $60
                                                                           Semi-annual inspection: $40
                                                                           Code compliance re-inspection: $40
Engineering fees – costs incurred by the Village for outside engineering
review of plans, drawings and documents related to any request for any     Actual costs charged to the village by the reviewing engineers)
type of construction, building or development permit
Fence construction                                                         $25
                                                                           Material class 1 (petroleum products, group A): $50
                                                                           All others: $50
                                                                           Plan approval (per regulated material class handled): $50
                                                                           Keeping or storage: $50
Hazardous materials                                                        Usage: $50
                                                                           Manufacturing: $50
                                                                           Handling: $50
                                                                           Transporting: $50
                                                                           Disposal: $0.03
Plumbing                                                                   Per plumbing fixture or opening: $5 with $30 minimum
                                                                           Per inspection:
Plumbing inspection                                                        Residential: $50
                                                                           Industrial/commercial: $100
                                                                           $250 for each device tested
Plumbing inspection testing fee for cross-connection control device        $100 additional fee for the testing of a device in event that more than one
                                                                           retesting is required
Restoration of water service if disconnected pursuant to section 10-2A,    $250
cross connection control
                                                                           Connection to water mains:
                                                                           One inch service cock: $130
Plumbing work                                                              One and one-fourth inch service cock: $200
                                                                           One and one half inch service cock: $200
                                                                           Two inch service cock: $250
                                                                           Connection to sewer: $20
Pool/spa construction                                                      Residential: $50
                                                                           Industrial/commercial: 0.50% of construction cost
                                                                           Applicants shall reimburse the village for all charges incurred by the
Professional/consultant fees                                               Village as a result of professional/ consultant review of permit/plan
                                                                           documents, including, but not limited to, attorney and engineer fees
Public rights-of-way (construction in)                                     $20 per 100 linear feet, but no less than $100
                                                                           Retention of administrative and clerical fees: 20% original permit
                                                                            
Refund of permit fees                                                      Minimum: $10
                                                                           Maximum: $150
                                                                           (No refund of plan review fees)
Roofing permit                                                             Residential: $50
                                                                           Industrial/commercial: $100
                                                                           $50 per single-family residence
                                                                           $75 per multi-family residence plus $10 for each dwelling unit up to 12
                                                                           units
                                                                           $200 per industrial/commercial building with a floor area of 10,000 square
                                                                           feet or less
                                                                           $350 per industrial/commercial building with a floor area between 10,000
Sanitary sewer connection                                                  square feet and 40,000 square feet
                                                                           $500 per industrial/commercial building with a floor area between 40,000
                                                                           square feet and 200,000 square feet
                                                                           $750 per industrial/commercial building with a floor area between 200,000
                                                                           square feet and 400,000 square feet
                                                                           $1,000 per industrial/commercial building with a floor area of 400,000
                                                                           square feet or more
                                                                           Collocation of one small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
                                                                           existing wireless support structure: $650
                                                                            
Small wireless facility application fees                                   An application seeking the collocation of more than one small wireless
                                                                           facility on existing poles: $350 per each small wireless facility
                                                                            
                                                                           Collocation of a small wireless facility involving the installation of a new
                                                                           pole: $1,000
Small wireless facility provider annual rental fee on village utility pole $200 per year or actual, direct costs related to provider’s use of village
                                                                           utility pole if greater than $200
Soil erosion control measures                                              $0.03 (per 2,000 feet)
Street opening                                                             $530
                                                                           Single-family residence: $100 per connection
                                                                           Multi-family residence: $1,145 per connection
Storm sewer tap-in fee                                                     One bathroom apartments: $230 per connection
                                                                           Two bathroom apartments: $230 per connection
                                                                           Apartments with over two bathrooms: $380 per connection
                                                                           Three-fourths inch: $10
                                                                           One inch: $15
                                                                           One and one-half inch: $25
Water meter handling charge                                                Two inch disc: $35
                                                                           Two inch compound: $70
                                                                           Three inch compound: $90
                                                                           Four inch compound: $140
                                                                           Six inch compound: $190
                                                                           Single-family home/residential apartment/condominium unit: $5.35 per 1000
                                                                           gallons ($16.05 minimum per billing period)
Water rates (on and after July 1, 2020)                                    Commercial/industrial unit: $10.90 per 1000 gallons ($32.70 minimum per
                                                                           billing period)
                                                                           Non-profit, educational, religious, charitable governmental or similar unit:
                                                                           $5.35 per 1000 gallons ($16.05 minimum per billing period)
All new commercial and industrial accounts (on or after July 1, 2020)      Deposit equal to estimated average monthly charge for water as determined by
                                                                           Director of Public Works, but not exceeding $5,000
Water turn on fee                                                          $50
Water reactivation fee                                                     $50
Temporary water meter rental                                               $300
Non-sufficient funds for payment of any water bill                         $25
 
   H.   Inspection Fees:
 
Classification       Annual fee
                     $50 per building with a floor area of 10,000 square feet
                     or less
Fire alarm systems   $100 per building with a floor area between 10,000 square
                     feet and 50,000 square feet
                     $200 per building with a floor area of 50,000 square feet
                     or more
                     $50 per building with a floor area of 10,000 square feet
                     or less
Fire evacuation plan $100 per building with a floor area between 10,000 square
                     feet and 50,000 square feet
                     $200 per building with a floor area of 50,000 square feet
                     or more
                     One to 200 seats: $100
Food establishments  201 to 350 seats: $200
                     Over 350 seats: $250
 
   I.   Zoning Fees:
Classification Fee
Classification                           Fee
Amendment to planned unit developments   $500
Appeal                                   $100
Circuit court transcripts                Recording service rate
Condominium conversion                   $125 (per unit)
Condominium inspection                   $175 (per unit)
Continuances                             50% initial fee
Extension of zoning board approval       $50
Landscape reinspection fee (if more than $50
two required)
Non-single family residential variations $425
Planned unit development                 $500
Sign variation                           $220
Single-family residential variations     $110
                                         Amendment not involving new
                                         construction: $350
Site plan review                         New buildings 20,000 gsf or less: $500
                                         New buildings more than 20,000 gsf:
                                         $1,000
Special use and special use amendment    $425
Tear down and replacement plans          $100
Temporary use permit application fee     $100
Zoning hearing notification              $50
Zoning verification letter               $40
 
   J.   On-Premises Sign Permits:
Classification Fee
Classification                          Fee
Canopy sign                             $50
Illuminated/digital sign                $50 plus $2 per square foot of sign
                                        area
Illuminated/digital sign annual renewal $30 plus $2 per square foot of sign
with inspection                         area
Non-illuminated sign                    $35 plus $1 per square foot of sign
                                        area
Non-illuminated sign annual renewal     $20 plus $1 per square foot of sign
with inspection                         area
Temporary business                      $30 for 30 days
Construction and event signs            $60 per 60 days
Balloon/banner                          $30 for 30 days
                                        $60 per 60 days
 
   K.   Off-Premises Sign Permits:
Classification Fee
Classification                          Fee
Canopy sign                             $50
Illuminated/digital sign                $50 plus $2 per square foot of sign
                                        area
Illuminated/digital sign annual renewal $400
with inspection
Non-illuminated sign                    $35 plus $1 per square foot of sign
                                        area
Non-illuminated sign annual renewal     $350
with inspection
Temporary business                      $30 per 30 days
Construction and event signs            $60 per 60 days
Balloon/banner                          $30 per 30 days
                                        $60 per 60 days
 
   L.   Other Charges:
 
Classification                                                                    Fee
                                                                                  Basic life support:
                                                                                  Nonresident: $750 plus $12 per mile
Ambulance charges effective prior to January 1, 2022                              Advanced life support level 1:
                                                                                  Nonresident: $850 plus $12 per mile
                                                                                  Advanced life support level 2:
                                                                                  Nonresident: $1,000 plus $12 per mile
                                                                                  Basic life support:
                                                                                     Resident: $1,500 plus $12 per mile
                                                                                     Nonresident: $1,750 plus $12 per mile
Ambulance charges effective on and after January 1, 2022                          Advanced life support level 1:
   The Village shall have the discretion to waive any ambulance fee charged to    Resident: $1,500 plus $12 per mile
Rosemont resident that is not covered by private insurance, Medicare or Medicaid.    Nonresident: $1,750 plus $12 per mile
                                                                                  Advanced life support level 2:
                                                                                     Resident: $1,500 plus $12 per mile
                                                                                     Nonresident: $1,750 plus $12 per mile
                                                                                  Annual number of occurrences:
                                                                                  0-2:       $0
                                                                                  3       $110   
False alarm service charge (nonresidential)                                       4       $225
                                                                                  5       $335
                                                                                  6-9       $560
                                                                                  10 or more    $1,120
                                                                                  Annual number of occurrences:
                                                                                  0-2:          $0
False alarm service charge (residential)                                          3-5          $110
                                                                                  6-7          $225
                                                                                  8 or more       $335
Abandoned vehicle                                                                 $100
 
(Ord. 2017-11-8J, 11-8-2017; amd. Ord. 2018-4-11A, 4-11-2018; Ord. 2018-6-13B,
6-13-2018; 2019 Code; Ord. 2020-6-10B, 6-10-2020; Ord. 2022-1-10A, 1-10-2022;
Ord. 2022-2-14E, 2-14-2022; Ord. 2023-12-11E, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 11: ADDITIONAL FEES AND CHARGES
ARTICLE A: ROSEMONT THEATRE AND
ALLSTATE ARENA SERVICES FEE
Section
3-11A-1:   Fee Established; Exemption
3-11A-2:   Payment Of Fee
3-11A-3:   Waiver Of Fee; Sharing Revenues
3-11A-4:   Implementation Of Fee Approved By Village
3-11A-1: FEE ESTABLISHED; EXEMPTION:
For events occurring at the Rosemont Theatre and the Allstate Arena, a
facilities service fee surcharge in the amount of two dollars ($2.00) or as may
be changed subject to approval by the Corporate Authorities, shall be added to
the amount to be paid by the initial purchaser of a ticket to any event at the
Rosemont Theatre and the Allstate Arena for which tickets are made available
for sale to the general public. The facilities service charge shall be in
addition to the amount paid by the ticket purchaser for the privilege of
witnessing or participating in the event at the Rosemont Theatre and the
Allstate Arena and shall be paid in addition to any amounts included in the
purchase price of the ticket that are collected from the ticket purchaser to
cover taxes that may be due as a result of the sale of the ticket. The
facilities service fee shall not be imposed on any ticket which is not
initially sold for monetary consideration.
(Ord. 2009-1-7D, 1-7-2009, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2009)
3-11A-2: PAYMENT OF FEE:
Any amounts collected as a result of the imposition of the facilities service
fee provided in section
3-11A-1 of this article shall be paid to the Village and shall be paid to the
Village at the time of the settlement for the event for which a ticket is sold
or within not more than thirty (30) days after the date such event occurs,
whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 2009-1-7D, 1-7-2009, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2009)
3-11A-3: WAIVER OF FEE; SHARING REVENUES:
   A.   The Village Executive Director of Entertainment Facilities, with the
approval of the Village President, shall have the authority to waive the
imposition of the facilities service fee provided in section
3-11A-1 of this article for tickets sold to an event where the Executive
Director of Entertainment Facilities, in the reasonable exercise of his
discretion, determines that it is necessary to waive the imposition of the fee
in order to be able to induce the producer, promoter or owner of the event to
agree to have the event occur at the Rosemont Theatre or the Allstate Arena.
   B.   The Village Executive Director of Entertainment Facilities, with the
approval of the Village President, shall also have the authority to share all
or any portion of the revenue generated by the facilities service fee provided
in section
3-11A-1 of this article for tickets sold to an event with the producer,
promoter or owner of the event where the Executive Director of Entertainment
Facilities, in the reasonable exercise of his discretion, determines that it is
necessary to share such revenue in order to be able to induce the producer,
promoter or owner of the event to agree to have the event occur at the Rosemont
Theatre or the Allstate Arena.
(Ord. 2009-1-7D, 1-7-2009, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2009)
3-11A-4: IMPLEMENTATION OF FEE APPROVED BY VILLAGE:
The Corporate Authorities of the Village do hereby approve any and all actions
taken on behalf of the Village by the Village Executive Director of
Entertainment Facilities, the general manager of the Rosemont Theatre or the
Allstate Arena, or by any other officer, employee or independent contractor of
the Village to implement the imposition of the facilities services fee provided
in section
3-11A-1 of this article in a manner which is consistent with the provisions of
this article.
(Ord. 2009-1-7D, 1-7-2009, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2009)
ARTICLE B: 9-1-1 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE SURCHARGE
Section
3-11B-1:   Definitions
3-11B-2:   Surcharge Imposed
3-11B-3:   Effective Date Of Surcharge
3-11B-4:   Collector Reimbursement
3-11B-5:   Surcharge Remittance And Return
3-11B-6:   Credit For Erroneous Payments
3-11B-7:   Statute Of Limitations
3-11B-8:   Copy Of Provisions To Collector
3-11B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
NETWORK CONNECTION: The number of voice grade communication channels directly
between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier’s public switched network
without the intervention of any other telecommunications carrier's switched
network which would be required to carry the subscriber's interpremises
traffic, which connection is capable of providing access through the public
switched network to a 9-1-1 emergency telephone system.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of the primary use of the network connection or
connections. With respect to network connections provided for use with pay
telephone services for which there is no billed subscriber, the
telecommunications carrier providing the network connection shall be deemed to
be its own billed subscriber for purposes of applying the surcharge.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this State, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court
engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity or
otherwise, but does not include a cellular or other mobile communications
carrier.
(Ord. 2001-2-14J, 2-14-2001, eff. 5-1-2001)
3-11B-2: SURCHARGE IMPOSED:
The monthly surcharge imposed on subscribers of telecommunications carriers
with service addresses located within the corporate limits of the Village shall
be one dollar sixty five cents ($1.65) per month per “network connection”, as
herein defined.
(Ord. 2001-2-14J, 2-14-2001, eff. 5-1-2001)
3-11B-3: EFFECTIVE DATE OF SURCHARGE:
The surcharge as set forth in this article shall be effective on May 1, 2001.
(Ord. 2001-2-14J, 2-14-2001, eff. 5-1-2001)
3-11B-4: COLLECTOR REIMBURSEMENT:
Each telecommunications carrier is hereby authorized and instructed to deduct
three percent (3%) from the gross amount of surcharge collected prior to
remittance under subsection
3-11B-5A of this article in reimbursement for the expense of accounting and
collecting the surcharge.
(Ord. 2001-2-14J, 2-14-2001, eff. 5-1-2001)
3-11B-5: SURCHARGE REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Every telecommunications carrier shall remit to the Village Finance
Director the amount of surcharge collected for each calendar month within
thirty (30) days following expiration of each month to which the surcharge
applies, net of any network or other 9-1-1 system charge then due to the
particular telecommunications carrier as shown on an itemized bill and the
three percent (3%) accounting and collection charge described in section
3-11B-4 of this article. Funds remitted to the Village pursuant to this
subsection shall be deposited in the Village Emergency Telephone System Fund.
   B.   Simultaneously with a remittance described in subsection A of this
section, the telecommunications carrier shall make a return to the Village
Finance Director for the period to which the remittance applies stating as
follows:
      1.   The name of the telecommunications carrier.
      2.   The telecommunications carrier's principal place of business.
      3.   The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies.
      4.   The amount of surcharge collected.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require.
(Ord. 2001-2-14J, 2-14-2001, eff. 5-1-2001)
3-11B-6: CREDIT FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
If it shall appear that an amount of surcharge has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any
surcharge due, or to become due, under this article; provided, that no amounts
erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited. Ninety (90) days’ prior notice shall be given to
the Emergency Telephone System Board on any credit against a surcharge due.
(Ord. 2001-2-14J, 2-14-2001, eff. 5-1-2001)
3-11B-7: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of surcharge due under the provisions of this
article shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount.
(Ord. 2001-2-14J, 2-14-2001, eff. 5-1-2001)
3-11B-8: COPY OF PROVISIONS TO COLLECTOR:
The Village Clerk or Village Finance Director shall provide any
telecommunications carrier collecting the surcharge with a certified copy of
this article within thirty (30) days from its passage and approval by the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2001-2-14J, 2-14-2001, eff. 5-1-2001)
ARTICLE C: EMERGENCY SERVICES COSTS
Section
3-11C-1:   Reimbursement Of Village Costs
3-11C-2:   Emergency Medical Transportation Fees Outside Village
3-11C-1: REIMBURSEMENT OF VILLAGE COSTS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   EMERGENCY SERVICES: Services provided by or on behalf of the Village of
Rosemont that deal with a situation or circumstances that require immediate
action in order to protect the safety or health of persons or to preserve or
protect property.
   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR: A person who provides emergency services on behalf
of the Village of Rosemont pursuant to an agreement with the Village including,
but not limited to, vehicle towing services, building demolition services,
board-up services and toxic and hazardous material removal services.
   PERSON: Any natural person, association, corporation, or other entity which
receives emergency services provided by or on behalf of the Village of
Rosemont.
   B.   Reimbursement Required: Any person who receives emergency services from
the Village shall be required to pay the Village the costs the Village incurs:
      1.   For emergency services provided to the person on behalf of the
Village by an independent contractor;
      2.   For materials and commodities consumed in providing the emergency
services; and
      3.   For equipment utilized in the providing of the emergency services
other than costs attributable to ordinary wear and tear.
   C.   Statement Of Costs; Billing; Liability For Payment: The director of the
department of the Village which provides emergency services to a person shall
furnish to the Village Finance Director an itemized statement of the costs
incurred in providing the emergency services. The Finance Director shall then
bill the person to whom the emergency services were provided for the costs such
person is required to pay the Village under the provisions of subsection B of
this section. When emergency services are provided to preserve real or personal
property or are otherwise provided with respect to real or personal property,
the owner of the property shall be liable for paying to the Village the costs
incurred in providing such emergency services as provided in subsection B of
this section.
   D.   Lien Provisions: When emergency services are provided with respect to
real property, the cost of such services shall constitute a lien on the real
property in the amount which the owner of the real property is required to pay
the Village under the provisions of subsections B and C of this section. The
Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to file a notice of lien on
any real property with respect to which the Village has provided emergency
services where the owner does not pay the Village for the cost of such services
as required by this section within thirty (30) days from the date the Village
issues a bill for such services.
(Ord. 87-5-6B, 5-6-1987)
3-11C-2: EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION FEES OUTSIDE VILLAGE:
   A.   Fees Established: Persons shall be charged the fees for emergency
medical transportation services (or ambulance service) as set forth in the
Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1(L) of this Code. The levels of service are as defined by the Center for
Medicare and Medicaid Services of the United States Department of Health and
Human Services.
   B.   Rendition of Invoice; Payment of Fees: The Village Public Safety
Department, directly or through a third-party contractor, shall be responsible
for issuing invoices for any fees which may be due to the Village for emergency
medical transportation. Payment of a fee owed for emergency medical
transportation shall be due not more than thirty (30) days after the invoice
for the fee is issued.
   C.   Enforcement of Collection of Fee: The Village Public Safety Department
or designee shall have the authority to take or authorize any and all legal
action which may be required in order to collect the fees that are due the
Village for emergency medical transportation. The Village Public Safety
Department shall at all times have the discretion to waive any emergency
medical transportation fee charged to a resident of the Village of Rosemont to
the extent it not covered by private insurance, Medicare or Medicaid.
(Ord. 2018-4-11A, 4-11-2018; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 2022-1-10A, 1-10-2022)
ARTICLE D: PROPERTY ASSESSED CLEAN ENERGY (PACE) CHARGES
Section
3-11D-1:   Regulation Of PACE Charges
3-11D-2:   Violation
3-11D-1: REGULATION OF PACE CHARGES:
Any entity receiving funding by participation in the Village’s PACE program
shall be prohibited from describing any charge or amount for the repayment of
such PACE funding on any bill or invoice in any manner represents or infers
that the PACE charge is a tax, assessment, levy, or tariff required by the
Village or is in any manner a requirement imposed by the Village. It shall not
be a violation of this prohibition to describe a PACE charge on a bill or
invoice as a “PACE charge”, a “clean energy charge”, a “PACE clean energy
charge”, or such substantially similar description that does not state or infer
that such charge has been required or imposed by the Village.
(Ord. 2020-7-8, 7-8-2020)
3-11D-2: VIOLATION:
The failure to comply with section
3-11D-1 shall be violation of the Village Code, and after a hearing at which a
determination is made that such violation has occurred, result in the
imposition of a fine in an amount not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with each day a violation has
occurred being a separate and distinct offense. The Village, at its discretion,
may enforce any violation by an action seeking injunction relief requiring
compliance and/or a monetary fine in either the Circuit Court of Cook County or
the Village’s system for administrative adjudication.
(Ord. 2020-7-8, 7-8-2020)
CHAPTER 12: TEMPORARY DEFERMENT OF TAXES
DUE TO COVID 19
Section
3-12-1:   Temporary Deferment Of Taxes Due To Be Paid To The Village
3-12-2:   Continued Collection Of Taxes
3-12-3:   Taxes Collected On And After July 1, 2020
3-12-4:   Temporary Amendment
3-12-1:    TEMPORARY DEFERMENT OF TAXES DUE TO BE PAID TO THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Subject to strict compliance with each and every one of the conditions
set forth in this section, the payments due to the Village for the locally
imposed taxes identified below in this section that were required to be
collected in the months of March, April, May and June of calendar year 2020
shall be delayed and deferred. The Village’s locally imposed taxes to which
this section applies are:
      1.   The Village’s hotel and motel use tax as ratified and reapproved by
Ordinance 78-9-11 and amended by ordinances, including but not limited to
Ordinances 92-2-5A and 2003-12-3D.
      2.   The Village’s parking tax as ratified and reapproved by Ordinance
78-9-11 and amended by ordinances, including but not limited to Ordinance 2000-
12-6C.
      3.   The Village’s amusement tax, ratified and reapproved by Ordinance
78-9-11 and amended by ordinances, including but not limited to, Ordinances
2012-840 and 2013-5-8.
      4.   The Village’s gross receipts tax on places for eating adopted by
Ordinance 81-11-18B, as amended by ordinances, including but not limited to,
Ordinance 2013-9-11A.
   B.   The deferment or delay in the payment of the collected taxes to the
Village are only applicable if, and only if, the individual or entity
responsible for the collection of the taxes has satisfied each and every one of
the following conditions:
      1.   Condition 1: All tax returns required for the Village imposed hotel
tax, parking tax, amusement tax and gross receipts tax on places for eating for
the revenues received in February, 2020 have been filed with the Village on or
before April 30, 2020;
      2.   Condition 2: All taxes collected pursuant to the Village imposed
hotel tax, parking tax, amusement tax and gross receipts tax on places for
eating on the revenues received in February, 2020 have been paid to the Village
on or before April 30, 2020; and
      3.   Condition 3: All tax returns for the Village imposed hotel tax,
parking tax, amusement tax and gross receipts tax on places for eating have
been correctly and timely filed on or before July 31, 2020 for taxes collected
in the months of March 2020, April 2020, May 2020 and June 2020. Even if the
amount of the any tax collected for any of these months is zero, a return shall
be filed showing zero collections.
   C.   Those individuals or entities meeting each and every one of the
requirements of the above conditions shall pay the Village’s locally imposed
hotel tax, parking tax, amusement tax and gross receipts tax on places for
eating they were required to collect in the months of March, April, May, and
June of 2020 (the “deferred taxes:) to the Village on or before September 1,
2020. Any interest and penalties shall not begin to accrue on the deferred
taxes until after September 1, 2020.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 7-8-2020; amd. Ord. 2020-8-12B, 8-12-2020)
3-12-2: CONTINUED COLLECTION OF TAXES:
This chapter is not intended to, and shall not be interpreted as, waiving or
abating the imposition of, or the collection of, any of the Village’s locally
imposed hotel tax, parking tax, amusement tax or gross receipts tax on places
for eating. Any individual or entity that fails to meet each and every one of
the conditions that are necessary to receive a temporary deferral of their
payment of collected taxes to the Village pursuant to section
3-12-1 of this chapter shall remain subject to all interest, penalties, fees
and fines that are applicable for both the failure to file tax returns and the
failure to pay any collected taxes to the Village.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 7-8-2020)
3-12-3: TAXES COLLECTED ON AND AFTER JULY 1, 2020:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall in any manner impact the collection of
the Village’s motel tax, parking tax, amusement tax or gross receipts tax on
places for eating on or after July 1, 2020; or the payment of such collected
taxes to the Village.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 7-8-2020)
3-12-4: TEMPORARY AMENDMENT:
This chapter is intended to be a temporary amendment to the ordinances imposing
the Village’s hotel tax, parking tax, amusement tax and gross receipts tax on
places for eating that are identified in section
3-12-1 of this chapter, but only to the limited extent necessary to accomplish
the intent and purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 7-8-2020)
TITLE 4: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL LICENSE REGULATIONS
Section
4-1-1:   License Required; More Than One License
4-1-2:   Subjects Of License Authority
4-1-3:   Applications For Licenses
4-1-4 :   Investigation Or Inspection Of Applicants
4-1-5:   Approval Or Disapproval Of License
4-1-6:   Term Of License; Renewals
4-1-7:   Nontransferability Of License; Unlawful Use
4-1-8:   Posting License; Destruction Or Removal Prohibited
4-1-9:   Building And Premises Requirements
4-1-10:   Location Requirements
4-1-11:   Nuisance Conditions Prohibited
4-1-12:   Working Conditions
4-1-13:   Businesses Open To The Public
4-1-14:   Inspections And Analyses Samples
4-1-15:   Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Hearing
4-1-16:   Appeals
4-1-17:   Penalties And Enforcement
4-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; MORE THAN ONE LICENSE:
No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct, engage in, maintain, operate,
carry on or manage any business, occupation, activity or establishment, either
by himself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, for which a
license is required by this Code or by any Village ordinance, without first
having obtained a license for such business, occupation, activity or
establishment. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating this
subsection shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. Ord. 2023-12-11D, 12-11-2023)
4-1-2: SUBJECTS OF LICENSE AUTHORITY:
Whenever a license is required for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any
business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or
occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the requirement
if, by himself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner, he or it is
held forth as being engaged in the business, activity, or occupation, or if he
or it solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively, or if he or it
performs or attempts to perform any part of such business, activity, or
occupation in the Village.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Applications for all licenses shall be made to the Health and Licensing
Department in writing on a form provided for that purpose, except as otherwise
provided.
   B.   If the applicant is an individual (sole proprietorship), the
application shall contain his name, residence address and telephone number. If
the applicant is a partnership or other noncorporate business entity, the
application shall contain the name and address of each partner, principal or
member thereof. If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall
contain the name and address of each principal officer and the registered agent
thereof.
   C.   Each application also shall contain:
      1.   A designation of the type or kind of license or permit desired;
      2.   The location or proposed location of the place of business,
occupation or activity;
      3.   The applicable fee to be paid as provided in the Village Fee
Schedule, section 3-10-1 of this Code;
      4.   The number of the certificate of registration required under the
Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act (35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.), Service Occupation Tax
Act (35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.) and/or Use Tax Act (35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.), if
applicable; and
      5.   Such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance
of Village officials in the evaluation of such application, including proof of
any insurance policy or bond required by this Code.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-4: INVESTIGATION OR INSPECTION OF APPLICANTS:
   A.   Where this Code authorizes or necessitates an investigation or
inspection by any department or official of the Village before the issuance of
a license and requires the approval by such department or official regarding
the proper location or condition of the premises in which the business,
occupation or activity for which a license is applied is to be managed,
conducted, operated or carried on, or regarding the condition and nature of the
equipment and methods intended to be used by the applicant in such business,
occupation or activity, then the Health and Licensing Department shall transmit
to the appropriate official or department such information necessary for the
required investigation or inspection.
   B.   The designated official or department:
      1.   Shall make all necessary investigations and inspections, and the
results thereof shall be reported in writing to the Health and Licensing
Department; and
      2.   Shall indicate on the application a recommendation for the approval
or disapproval thereof.
   C.   Upon receipt of all related investigative and inspection reports, the
Health and Licensing Department shall forward such reports, together with the
application, to the Village President for final determination.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-5: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Approval And Issuance: If, after due consideration of the information
contained within the application and related investigative and inspection
reports, the Village President shall determine that the application is
satisfactory, he shall approve the application. Thereupon, the Health and
Licensing Department shall notify the applicant that his or its application is
approved, and the license shall be issued.
   B.   Disapproval: If, after due consideration of the information contained
within the application and related investigative and inspection reports, the
Village President shall determine that matters concerning the application are
unsatisfactory, he shall disapprove the application, indicating the reasons
therefor. Thereupon, the Health and Licensing Department shall notify the
applicant that his or its application has not been approved and that no license
will be issued.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
   A.   Each license shall indicate the term thereof. All annual licenses shall
be operative, and the license year for the Village shall commence on January 1
of each year. No license shall be granted for a period longer than one (1)
year. Except where otherwise provided herein, every license shall expire on
December 31 following the date of issuance.
   B.   The Health and Licensing Department shall endeavor to notify each
annual licensee of the expiration of time of the license held by the licensee
at least twenty one (21) days prior to such expiration date. Provided, however,
that a failure to make such notification or the licensee’s failure to receive
it shall not exclude the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license
or a renewal thereof.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided herein, each license may be renewed upon
proper application and payment of the required fee. The requirements and
procedures for granting and issuing a license renewal shall be the same as
provided in sections
4-1-1 through
4-1-5 of this chapter.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-7: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; UNLAWFUL USE:
   A.   No license may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used as
collateral or otherwise encumbered.
   B.   No person, firm or corporation shall use or display any license
certificate, tag, badge, or sticker which has been improperly acquired.
   C.   No person, firm or corporation shall alter, deface, forge, or
counterfeit any license, certificate, plate, tag, badge or sticker issued by
the Village.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-8: POSTING LICENSE; DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in
the Village to keep his license in a prominent place on the premises used for
such business at all times.
   B.   No person shall destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away without
the consent of the owner any license, certificate, plate or sticker which has
been issued by the Village, except if such license, certificate, plate or
sticker has been discontinued or the licensed premises has been abandoned.
Nothing herein shall prevent the Village President or his duly authorized
representative from removing any license, certificate, plate or sticker from
the possession of a former licensee, his premises, any vehicle or any machine
when said license has been revoked under the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-9:    BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any purpose or activity if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the Village and the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-10: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No license for the operation of a business, establishment, or activity
in the Village shall be construed to permit its operation in more than one
location in the Village. A separate license shall be required for each
location. For the purposes of this Code, the existence of a single location
shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or
accessory uses:
      1.   Shall be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel;
      2.   Shall be operated and managed by the same person or owner; and
      3.   Shall be an establishment with the same classification.
   B.   The location of any licensed business or occupation, other than the
sale of alcoholic liquors or the location of any permitted act, may be changed;
provided, that the Health and Licensing Department shall be given sufficient
notice of such intended change in location to determine the operation for which
the license is required conforms with all applicable ordinances and regulations
of the Village at its new location.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-11: NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Generally: No business or establishment, whether or not licensed, shall
be so conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact; and no
building, vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof shall be
used, kept, maintained, or operated in connection with any business or
establishment so as to occasion any nuisance, or so as to be dangerous to life
or detrimental to health.
   B.   Unsafe Or Unhealthful Businesses:
      1.   No building or structure utilized, constructed, or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary,
unsafe, or dangerous condition.
      2.   No substance, matter, or thing of any kind whatever, which shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in any work or labor performed in
the Village.
   C.    Refuse Collection And Disposal:
      1.    Containers:
         a.    The standard refuse container required by this Code shall be a
receptacle of not less than twenty (20) nor more than thirty two (32) gallons’
capacity, of impervious material and sturdy construction, with a tightfitting
cover, and equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate handling.
         b.   The occupant of every building, structure, or premises used or
maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall provide and
maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient number of refuse containers
for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating between collections.
         c.   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside any
building or structure must be kept in standard refuse containers unless another
type of container is approved by the Health and Licensing Department due to the
unusual nature of the refuse produced by the business.
      2.    Removal Of Refuse:
         a.   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every building,
structure, or premises used or maintained in connection with any business or
occupation to cause to be removed at his own cost and expense, at least once
each week, all refuse produced therein.
         b.   Every person owning or controlling any hotel, restaurant, café,
retail food establishment or other business or occupation where more than
thirty (30) gallons of refuse is normally produced weekly shall cause all
substances deposited in such containers to be removed as often as shall be
necessary including daily removal from his premises to ensure the healthful
environment surrounding such establishment. Such removal shall be at his own
expense.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-12: WORKING CONDITIONS:
   A.   Health Requirements: No owner, lessee, manager or superintendent of any
business or commercial establishment, or any room or part thereof, shall allow
such premises to be overcrowded or inadequate or faulty in respect to light,
ventilation, heat or cleanliness.
   B.   Sanitation: All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean
condition, free from the effluvia of a sewer, drain, or other nuisance; also,
as far as practicable, such premises shall be free from all gases, vapors,
dust, or otherwise which are injurious to health. Sufficient washroom
facilities for male and female employees shall be provided, and such facilities
shall be properly ventilated.
   C.   Heat Requirements: It shall be the duty of every person owning or
controlling the heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory, workshop,
retail business or other commercial establishment to maintain a temperature
when workers are present within such factory or workshop of not less than sixty
eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) without such undue restriction of ventilation
as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions therein; provided, however,
that this requirement shall not apply to any factory or workshop where the
business conducted therein is of such a nature that a lower temperature than
sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) is necessary or expedient for the work or
manufacturing process of such business.
   D.   Inspections: The appropriate Village officials shall visit or cause to
be visited all such places of employment in the Village as often as they shall
deem necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this section, and to
have such arrangements made as may be deemed necessary for the health and
safety of the employees.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-13: BUSINESSES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC:
All businesses or commercial establishments licensed under this Code which
invite the public generally into their establishments for the purpose of
conducting business or commercial activities shall be subject to the following
regulations in addition to all other applicable provisions of this Code:
   A.   Sanitation Facilities: All areas within the licensed premises where the
public may enter shall be kept in a safe and sanitary condition, and at least
one (1) restroom shall be provided for use by the business invitees of the
licensee.
   B.   Insurance Requirements: All such businesses shall purchase and maintain
at all times a public liability insurance policy in an amount determined by the
Village with a responsible insurer qualified to do business in Illinois, to
secure payment of any loss or damage to the public resulting from the operation
of the licensee’s business. Said insurance policy shall provide for the payment
and satisfaction of any final judgment rendered against the licensee and that
suit may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction upon such policy by
any person having claims arising from the operation of the licensee’s business.
Proof of such insurance policy shall be presented to the Director of the Health
and Licensing Department prior to the issuance or renewal of any annual license
to which this section applies.
   C.   Consumer Protection: All business or commercial establishments subject
to this section shall refrain from all deceptive trade practices as defined by
State or Federal law or regulation and shall comply with all applicable laws
and regulations regarding consumer protection and deceptive trade practices. In
the event of any such violation, the business license of the establishment may
be revoked pursuant to section 4-1-16 of this chapter.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-14: INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES SAMPLES:
   A.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for, or required by
ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of any ordinance or regulation of the Village, or to detect violations thereof,
it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to
admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee
of the Village who is duly authorized to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that such admission or entry is requested.
   B.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulations, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of the Village requesting the same sufficient samples of
such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Village
President may revoke, under the provisions of subsection
4-1-15A of this chapter, the license of any owner or operator of a licensed
business in the Village who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or
employee to make such inspection or to take an adequate sample of said
commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the
performance of his duties.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
   A.   When the conduct or operation of any business, occupation, activity or
establishment, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall constitute a nuisance in
fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, or where the holder of any license shall have refused to allow an
inspection of his premises or has refused to furnish a sample of his goods for
testing, the Village President shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business and the closing of the premises until the danger no
longer exists, and the suspension of any license or permit for a period not to
exceed ten (10) days.
   B.   Within eight (8) days after a license is suspended, the Village
President shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license should be revoked.
   C.   1. Licenses issued under the ordinances of the Village, unless
otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Village President after notice and
hearing as provided in subsections D and E of this section for any of the
following causes:
         a.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license.
         b.   Any violation by the licensee of ordinance provisions relating to
the license, the subject matter of the license or the premises occupied.
         c.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
where such conclusion indicates their inability to operate a safe, honest and
legitimate business operation within the Village.
         d.   Failure of the licensee to pay any fine or penalty or charge
owing to the Village.
         e.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized Village officer or employee while in the reasonable
performance of his duties in making such inspections, as provided in section
4-1-14 of this chapter.
      2.   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable ordinances of the Village.
   D.   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail (return
receipt requested) to the licensee at his last known address at least five (5)
days prior to the date set for the hearing. If the licensee shall request a
continuance in the date of the hearing, the ten (10) day suspension shall be in
effect until two (2) days after the final hearing date.
   E.   At the hearing, the Village Attorney shall present the complaint and
shall represent the Village. The licensee shall be permitted counsel and shall
have the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. The Village
President shall preside and shall render the decision.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
1-4-4  of this Code
4-1-16: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Village President in regard to the
denial of an application for a business license, as provided in subsection
4-1-5B of this chapter, or in connection with the revocation of a license, or
the closing of an establishment dangerous to the public, as provided in section
4-1-16 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the Board of
Trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Director of the Health
and Licensing Department within ten (10) days after notice of a denial of an
application or a revocation of a license, a written statement under oath
setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees shall
thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee in the same manner as
provided in section
4-1-16 of this chapter. The decision of the Board of Trustees on the appeal
shall be final.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-1-17: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Unless otherwise expressly provided, any person, firm or corporation
convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
   B.   Whenever a person, firm or corporation shall neglect or refuse to
procure any license required by this Code, or otherwise violates the terms of
this chapter, the Health and Licensing Department is authorized to cause
appropriate legal action and proceedings to be instituted to enforce the
license requirement.
   C.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall take all
necessary and appropriate action to compel compliance with the regulatory
provisions of this chapter. When necessary and expedient, he may call upon the
Chief of Public Safety to assist in such enforcement, and it shall be the duty
of the Chief of Public Safety to perform such enforcement acts as may be
required of him. The Director of the Health and Licensing Department, and each
of his license inspectors, shall be conservators of the peace with police
powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Code and other
Village ordinances relating to the licensing of businesses and occupations and
their regulations.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
4-2-1:   Definitions
4-2-2:   Local Liquor Control Commissioner Powers And Duties
4-2-3:   Licenses Required
4-2-4:   Ineligibility For License
4-2-5:   Effect Of Violations Of Tax Provisions
4-2-6:   Application For License
4-2-7:   Classification Of Licenses; Fees
4-2-7.5:   Retailer’s License
4-2-7.6:   Delivery Of Alcoholic Liquor - Effective January 1, 2022
4-2-7.7:   Delivery Of Alcoholic Liquor - Prior To January 1, 2022
4-2-7.8:   Prohibition On The Delivery Of Alcoholic Liquor By A Retail Licensee
In Any Manner Other Than Those Authorized By Sections 4-2-7.5, 4-2-7.6, And 4-
2-7.7 Of The Code Of Ordinances
4-2-8:   Payment Of Fees; Proration; Disposition
4-2-9:   Number Of Licenses
4-2-10:   Term Of License
4-2-11:   Nature Of License
4-2-12:   Posting License
4-2-13:   Interim Licenses
4-2-14:   BASSETT Training Required
4-2-15:   Additional Regulations For Certain Licensees
4-2-16:   Location Restrictions; Exceptions
4-2-17:   Access From Licensed Premises To Dwelling Quarters
4-2-18:   Sanitary Conditions
4-2-19:   Days And Hours Of Sales
4-2-20:   Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
4-2-21:   Minors
4-2-22:   Additional Prohibitions
4-2-23:   Examination Of Books And Records Of Applicants And Licensees
4-2-24:   Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-2-25:   Appeals To State
4-2-26:   Penalties
4-2-1:   DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases used in this chapter, not otherwise defined herein, shall
have the meanings accorded to such words or phrases in the Liquor Control Act
of 1934 (“act”), as amended (235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.).
ALCOHOLIC SPIRITS OR SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by
distillation, mixed with water or other substance in solution, and includes
brandy, rum, whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when
rectified, blended or other mixed with alcohol or other substances.
BYOB: The consumption of a customer’s beer or wine brought by the customer onto
the premises of a restaurant possessing a BYOB license issued pursuant to this
chapter for consumption by such customer and his or her guests on the premises
of the licensed restaurant as a complement to the consumption of a meal
purchased from the restaurant, subject to such further limits as may be adopted
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
DRINK: Except as otherwise provided in subsection 4-2-15C of this chapter,
which applies only to Class L licenses, DRINK, when used as a noun in this
chapter, shall mean a single serving of alcoholic spirits in a glass or other
container that holds not more than eight (8) ounces, a single serving of beer
in a glass bottle or other container, or a single serving of wine in a glass or
other container that holds not more than nine (9) ounces.
WINE OR VINOUS BEVERAGES: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation
of the natural contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including
such beverages fortified by the addition of alcohol or “spirits” as defined
herein.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2014-11-12F, 11-12-2014; Ord. 2018-2-
14R, 2-14-2018; Ord. 2025-1-13, 1-13-2025)
4-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in addition to those powers and duties
set out in this chapter, shall also have the following powers, functions and
duties with respect to licenses:
   A.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within
his jurisdiction.
   B.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time
upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions
of State law, this Code or Village ordinances or any rules or regulations
adopted by him or by the State Commission have been or are being violated, and
at such time to examine the premises of the licensee in connection therewith.
   C.   To receive complaint from any citizen within his jurisdiction that any
of the provisions of State law or this chapter have been or are being violated
and to act upon such complaints in the manner provided by law.
   D.   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under the
General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986 (805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq.) or
a foreign corporation functioning as a club in this State under a certificate
of authority issued under that act has violated this chapter by selling or
offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s license.
   E.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department.
   F.   To notify the Secretary of State of any convictions or dispositions of
court supervision for a violation of section 6-20 of the Liquor Control Act
(235 ILCS 5/6-20), or a similar provision of any Village ordinance.
   G.   To levy fines in accordance with section 7-5 of the Liquor Control Act
(235 ILCS 5/7-5) and to conduct all hearings in accordance with the procedural
requirements of the act.
   H.   To appoint a hearing officer to conduct any hearing that may be
required.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2 011)
4-2-3: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Local License: No person shall sell at retail or offer for sale at
retail in the Village any alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor
license issued by the Village President, in his capacity as Local Liquor
Control Commissioner of the Village.
   B.    State License: No licensee under this chapter shall operate a liquor
business without having obtained a retailer’s license issued by the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-4: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this section, no
license of any kind shall be issued to:
      1.    A person who is not of good character and reputation.
      2.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
      3.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or
State law unless the Liquor Control Commissioner determines that such person
has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering matters set forth in such person’s application and the
Commissioner’s investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation
shall be on the applicant. However, a person that is not otherwise disqualified
from holding a liquor license under subsection A4 of this section (conviction
for keeping a place of prostitution or juvenile prostitution), subsection A11
of this section (conviction of a liquor law violation) or any other provision
in this chapter or State Statute, shall be deemed to be sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust, and no hearing before the Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be required if the felony conviction occurred more
than twenty (20) years before the date of the liquor license application and
the person:
         a.   Is a shareholder or owner of not more than fifteen percent (15%)
of the corporation or limited liability company that is applying for the liquor
license; and
         b.   The corporation or limited liability company applying for the
license certifies in writing that the person that was convicted of the felony
is not involved in the management of the premises for which a liquor license is
being sought.
(Ord. 2015-10-14H, 10-14-2015)
      4.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution
or keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that
involves keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution
that involves keeping a place of prostitution; or a person who has been
convicted of pandering or other crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and
morality.
      5.   A person whose license issued under the State act or this chapter
has been revoked for cause.
      6.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
      7.   A copartnership if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership, would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the
Village.
      8.   A corporation or limited liability company if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the Village.
      9.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated
or organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign
limited liability company which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act
of 1983 (805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.) or the Limited Liability Company Act (805
ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.) to transact business in Illinois.
      10.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
      11.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or
State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of the State act, or has forfeited his bond to appear
in court to answer charges for any such violation.
      12.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
      13.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of the local
liquor control commission, the Village President, or any member of the
Village’s Board of Trustees; except, that a license may be granted to member of
the Village’s Board of Trustees in relation to a premises located within the
Village if: a) the sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is
incidental to the selling of food; b) the issuance of the license is approved
by the State Commission; c) the issuance of the license is in accordance with
all applicable local ordinances in effect where the premises is located; and d)
the Trustee granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor issues pending
before the Board of Trustees.
      14.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      15.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed
by any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as
proscribed by section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of, the Criminal Code of 1961 or the
Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/28-l (a)(3) through (a)(11); 5/28-1.1; 5/28-
3), or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory
provisions.
      16.   A person or entity to whom a Federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the Federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued
a license under the Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.) or
the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act (230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.).
      17.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in subsection (a) of section 6-21 of the
Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5/6-21(a)).
   B.   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the corporation
if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of Federal or
State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or
the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any financial gain to
the corporation and the corporation has terminated its relationship with each
director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder whose actions directly
contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The Liquor Control
Commissioner shall determine if all provisions of this subsection have been met
before any action on the corporation’s license is initiated.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-5: EFFECT OF VIOLATIONS OF TAX PROVISIONS:
In addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner may refuse the issuance or renewal of a retail license, or
suspend or revoke such license, for any of the following violations of any tax
act administered by the Illinois Department of Revenue:
   A.   Failure to make a tax return.
   B.   The filing of a fraudulent return.
   C.   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined to
be due.
   D.   Failure to keep books and records.
   E.   Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration.
   F.   Wilful violation of any rule or regulation of the Department of Revenue
relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Applications for licenses shall be made to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, in writing, on forms that can be obtained from the Director of
the Health and Licensing Department.
   B.   All corporations licensed under this chapter shall report to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner within thirty (30) days, all internal changes in
such corporation pertaining to officers and stockholders holding more than five
percent (5%) of such corporation’s stock.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES:
There shall be the following classes of licenses with an annual license fee as
indicated:
   A.   Class A License: A Class A license authorizes the retail sale on the
premises specified of alcoholic spirits by the drink for consumption on the
premises and beer or wine by the drink, pitcher, bottle or carafe for
consumption on the premises. The “premises” of all Class A licenses shall mean
a “hotel” as defined in section 1-3.25 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235
ILCS 5/1-3.25). A motel shall be deemed a hotel under this subsection. The
annual license fee for a Class A license shall be as set forth in the Village
Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1A of this Code. The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner is authorized to issue a Class A license to a hotel which is
proposed to be constructed or is under construction within the Village;
provided, that such license shall be subject to revocation in the event that a
certificate of occupancy is not issued for the premises for which the license
is issued within three (3) years after the initial issuance of the license.
   B.   Class B License: A Class B license authorizes the retail sale on the
premises specified of all alcoholic spirits by the drink for consumption on the
premises and beer or wine by the drink, pitcher, bottle or carafe for
consumption on the premises. The “premises” of all Class B licenses shall mean
a restaurant with or without a cocktail lounge. “Restaurant” shall mean that
definition as set forth in section 1-3.23 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934
(235 ILCS 5/3-1.23). The annual license fee for a Class B license shall be as
set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is authorized to
issue a Class B license to a restaurant which is proposed to be constructed or
is under construction within the Village; provided, that such license shall be
subject to revocation in the event that a certificate of occupancy is not
issued for the premises for which the license is issued within three (3) years
after the initial issuance of the license.
   C.   Class B(1) License: A Class B(1) license authorizes the retail sale on
the premises specified of alcoholic spirits by the drink for consumption on the
premises and beer or wine by the drink, pitcher, bottle or carafe for
consumption on the premises. The “premises” of all Class B(1) licenses shall
mean a cocktail lounge without a restaurant. The annual license fee for a Class
B(1) license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   D.   Class B(2) License: A Class B(2) license authorizes the retail sale on
the premises specified of beer and wine by the drink by a tenant within an
indoor retail shopping mall that exceeds four hundred thousand (400,000) square
feet for consumption on the premises. The “premises” for all Class B(2)
licenses shall mean a kiosk or other space leased by the tenant in the indoor
retail shopping mall. An application for a Class B(2) license shall be jointly
made by both the tenant that will be offering the retail sale of beer and/or
wine and the landlord that owns the indoor retail shopping mall. In addition to
meeting all requirements of this chapter for the issuance of a liquor license,
the co-applicants for a Class B(2) license shall include with their application
a written plan, signed and approved by both the tenant and the landlord, for
policing and monitoring the sale and consumption of alcohol within both the
tenant space and the entirety of the indoor retail shopping mall. A Class B(2)
license shall only be issued if the written plan that is signed by the tenant
and landlord is approved by the Liquor Control Commissioner. Any Class B(2)
license issued shall be contingent upon compliance with the written plan that
is signed by both the tenant and landlord and approved by the Liquor Control
Commissioner. Prior to getting a license, proof that the tenant and the
landlord are covered by dramshop insurance shall be provided. The failure to
comply with any provision of this subsection shall be a violation of this
chapter and subject the violator to all the penalties allowed by this chapter
and the Illinois Liquor Control Act up to and including the revocation of any
Class B(2) license that has been issued. The annual license fee for a Class B
(2) license shall be as set forth in the Village’s schedule of fees, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   E.   Class B(3) License: A Class B(3) license authorizes the holder of a
Class B License to sell sealed, unopened bottles of wine for consumption on or
off the premises. It shall be unlawful for any patron to leave the premises
with a partially consumed container of wine unless it is securely sealed by
restaurant personnel prior to the removal from the premises and placed in a
transparent one time use tamperproof bag, as required by state law and in
accordance with the Illinois Liquor Control Act. The license fee for each Class
B(3) license shall be set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   F.   Class B(4) License: A Class B(4) license authorizes the self-service
pouring of beer, wine and cider for consumption and related sealed package
sales of the beer, wine and cider served from an enclosed kiosk or tenant space
that is located within or adjacent to a food court within an indoor regional
shopping mall. The hours of operation of the kiosk/tenant space used for the
service and or package sales of beer, wine and cider shall be the same as the
hours of operation of the indoor regional shopping mall in which the kiosk/
tenant space is located. During all hours of operation the kiosk/tenant space
shall be manned by a BASSET certified individual that shall ensure that each
person receiving beer, wine or cider is of sufficient legal age to consume
alcohol. After confirming that each individual is legally able to consume
alcohol, each individual shall be given a card that will allow for the self-
service pouring of no more than thirty-two (32) ounces and only one container
with the emblem identifying the kiosk/tenant space. A customer may contain an
additional card only from the BASSET certified individual in charge of the
kiosk/tenant space. The container with the emblem shall: (1) be sufficient to
readily identify that it is being used for the consumption of beer, wine or
cider; (2) dissimilar to any other drinking container being used within the
indoor shopping mall; and (3) approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. The container provided for the self-service pouring of beer or
cider shall not hold more than sixteen (16) ounces. The container provided for
the self-service pouring of wine shall not exceed eight (8) ounces. A Class B
(4) license shall not be issued or renewed unless the applicant provides proof
of dramshop insurance. The failure to comply with all the requirements set
forth herein for a Class B(4) liquor license shall be a violation of this
chapter and subject the violator to all the penalties allowed by this chapter
and the Illinois Liquor Control Act up to and including license revocation. The
license fee for each Class B(4) license shall be as set forth in the Village
Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1A of this Code.
   G.   Class C License: A Class C license authorizes the retail sale on the
premises specified of alcoholic liquor in its original package, not for
consumption on the premises. The annual license fee for a Class C license shall
be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   H.   Class D License: A Class D license authorizes the retail sale, on the
premises specified, of alcoholic spirits by the drink for consumption on the
premises and beer or wine by the drink, pitcher, bottle or carafe for
consumption on the premises. This class of license shall only allow for retail
sale from a service bar to tables in a restaurant; provided, that the licensee
may be permitted to allow seating at such service bar, but such seating shall
not exceed ten (10) chairs or bar stools. The annual license fee for a Class D
license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1A
of this Code. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is authorized to issue a
Class D license to a restaurant which is proposed to be constructed or is under
construction within the Village; provided, that such license shall be subject
to revocation in the event that a certificate of occupancy is not issued for
the premises for which the license is issued within three (3) years after the
initial issuance of the license.
   I.   Class E License: A Class E license authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises at a government
owned stadium, recreational facility, or exposition center; beer or wine by the
drink, pitcher, bottle or carafe for consumption on the premises at a
government owned stadium, recreational facility, or exposition center;
alcoholic spirits by the bottle in private suites with a maximum occupancy of
not less than ten (10) and not more than forty (40) persons on the premises of
a government owned stadium; and alcoholic spirits by the bottle in banquet
areas on the premises of a government owned exposition center during events
that are not generally open to the public. The annual license fee for a Class E
license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   J.   Class E(1) (Entertainment District) License: A Class E(1) license
authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic spirits by the drink for consumption on
the premises and beer or wine by the drink, pitcher, bottle or carafe for
consumption on the premises. A Class E(1) license additionally authorizes the
retail sale of alcoholic spirits by the bottle for consumption within private
rooms that are not open to all members of the general public located within the
interior of the premises. The premises for a Class E(1) license shall be the
interior and any exterior patio or seating areas, if any, that are located
within The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District. Any exterior patio or
seating areas located within the premises shall be subject to the rules and
regulations that are set forth in subsection
4-2-15 B.1. of this chapter, as amended from time to time. A Class E(1) license
also authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor by the drink on the
licensed premises for consumption on the Village owned common outdoor area of
The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District pursuant to such rules and
regulations established for the consumption of alcohol in the Village owned
common area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District that are set forth
in subsection
4-2-15 B.2. of this chapter, as amended from time to time. The annual license
fee for a Class E(1) license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule,
subsection
3-10-1 A. of this Code. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is authorized to
issue a Class E(1) license to the lessee of a facility which is proposed to be
constructed or is under construction within The Park at Rosemont Entertainment
Districts; provided, that such license shall be subject to revocation in the
event that a certificate of occupancy is not issued for the premises for which
the license is issued within three (3) years after the initial issuance of the
license.
   K.   Class E(2) (Entertainment District Special Event) License: A Class E(2)
license authorizes a Class E(1) license holder to engage in the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by the drink from a serving area located on the Village owned
common outdoor area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District for
consumption within the outdoor area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment
District at such locations and subject to such restrictions and regulations as
deemed necessary by the Village for the special event. Prior to the issuance of
a Class E(2) license, the Class E(1) license holder must provide adequate proof
of dramshop insurance which names the Village and its officers and employees as
additional insureds with limits of insurance satisfactory to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner or his designee. If the proof of dramshop insurance
expires during the period the Class E(2) license is in effect, the license
holder shall submit updated proof that they have the insurance required. At all
times, it shall be the sole responsibility of the Class E(2) license holder to
maintain the insurance required during the entire period the Class E(2) license
is in effect. A Class E(2) license holder shall also comply with the rules and
regulations established for the consumption of alcohol in the Village owned
common area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District that are set forth
in subsection
4-2-15B2 of this chapter, as amended from time to time. The license fee for an
annual Class E(2) license shall be that set forth in the Village Fee Schedule,
subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   L.    Class E(3) (Entertainment District Brew Pub) License: A Class E(3)
license authorizes a Class E(1) license holder to additionally operate, on the
licensed premises, a “brew pub” as that term is defined in section 1-3.33 of
the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-3.33). The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner is authorized to issue a Class E(3) license for a premises which
is proposed to be constructed or is under construction within the Village;
provided, that: 1) such license shall be subject to revocation in the event
that a certificate of occupancy is not issued for the premises for which the
license is issued within three (3) years after the initial issuance of the
license; and 2) no sale of alcoholic beverages shall occur on the premises for
which the license is issued until a brew pub license is issued by the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission which covers the same premises.
   M.   Class F License: A Class F license authorizes the retail sale on the
premises specified of beer and wine only. The annual license fee for a Class F
license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   N.   Class G License: A Class G license authorizes the sale and dispensing
of alcoholic spirits by the drink and beer or wine by the drink, pitcher,
bottle or carafe for consumption only on premises owned or leased by the
Village or the Rosemont Park District. Such license shall be granted on a one
day basis and shall allow the sale and dispensing of alcoholic liquor only
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. The license fee for a Class G license shall be as set forth in the Village
Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. An applicant for a Class G license must submit with the
application proof satisfactory to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner that
the applicant has made arrangements to provide dramshop liability insurance
under or pursuant to section 6-21 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS
5/6-21). If the applicant is seeking the Class G license for the sale and
dispensing of alcoholic liquor on premises owned or leased by the Village, the
applicant must provide proof that the required dramshop liability insurance
policy names the Village as an additional insured.
   O.   Class I License: A Class I license authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor not for consumption on the premises, where the alcoholic
liquor is both delivered and served by the licensee incidental to the sale,
delivery and serving of food by the licensee. A Class I license shall permit a
licensee to deliver and serve alcoholic liquors on the same premises on not
more than five (5) days during any thirty (30) day period. Except, A Class I
licensee may deliver and serve alcoholic liquors incidental to the sale,
delivery and serving of food on the same premises for more than five (5) days
during any thirty (30) day period if the premises is a banquet hall, banquet
room or similar facility. All beer and wine that is served by a Class I liquor
license holder shall be served in a glass bottle or other container that holds
not more that sixteen (16) ounces; provided, that an open bottle containing not
more than two (2) liters of wine may be placed on a table where food is to be
served if the wine is intended to be consumed as part of a meal. All alcoholic
liquor, other than beer and wine, that is served by a Class I liquor license
holder shall be served in a glass or other container that holds not more than
eight (8) ounces. The license fee for a Class I license shall be as set forth
in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. If the holder of a Class I license delivers and serves
alcoholic liquor on premises that is located outside the corporate limits of
the Village, the license holder must comply with all ordinances and other laws
applicable to the delivery and serving of alcoholic liquor on such premises.
   P.   Class I(1) License: A Class I(1) license authorizes a holder of a Class
B license to serve alcoholic liquor where the alcoholic liquor is both
delivered and served by the licensee incidental to the catering of food by the
licensee. The serving size for beer shall not exceed twelve (12) ounces. The
serving size for wine and alcoholic beverages other than beer shall not exceed
eight (8) ounces. Except, open bottles or containers of wine containing not
more than one (1) liter of wine may be placed on a table where food is to be
served if the wine is intended to be consumed as part of a meal. The license
fee for a Class I(1) license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule,
subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. If the holder of a Class I(1) license delivers and serves
alcoholic liquor on premises that are located outside the corporate limits of
the Village of Rosemont, the license holder must comply with all ordinances and
other laws applicable to the delivery and serving of alcoholic liquor on such
premises.
   Q.   Class J License: A Class J license authorizes the holder of a Class A,
B, B(1), D, E, E(1) or K license to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises for which the Class A, B, B(1), D, E, E(1) or K license has been
issued during the hours when the sale of alcoholic liquor is otherwise
prohibited . A Class J license shall not be valid for more than one twenty-four
(24) hour period and only during the hours as set forth in the application for
the license as approved by the Liquor Commissioner. A Class J license shall not
allow for the sale of any alcoholic liquor between the hours of four o'clock
(4:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. A holder of a Class A, B, B(1), D, E,
E(1) or K license shall not be issued a Class J license more than five (5)
times during any calendar year. Effective as of January 1, 2024 and thereafter,
a Class J License shall only be issued for private ticketed events that are not
open to the public. The license fee for each Class J license shall be as set
forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   R.   Class K License: A Class K license authorizes the retail sale on the
premises specified of alcoholic spirits by the drink and beer or wine by the
drink, pitcher, bottle or carafe for consumption on the premises and the retail
sale of beer in its original package for consumption off of the premises. The
“premises” of a Class K license shall mean a “restaurant” as that term is
defined in section 1-3.23 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-3.23)
that is part of a “brew pub” as that term is defined in section 1-3.33 of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-3.33). The annual license fee for a
Class K license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is authorized to
issue a Class K license to a brew pub which is proposed to be constructed or is
under construction within the Village; provided, that: 1) such license shall be
subject to revocation in the event that a certificate of occupancy is not
issued for the premises for which the license is issued within three (3) years
after the initial issuance of the license; and 2) no sale of alcoholic
beverages shall for which the license is issued until a brew pub license is
issued by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission which covers the same
premises.
   S.   Class L License: A Class L license authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic spirits by the drink and beer or wine by the drink for consumption on
the premises pursuant to such rules and regulations that are set forth in
subsection
4-2-15C of this chapter, as amended from time to time. The “premises” of a
Class L license shall mean a movie or live performance theater that is not
owned/operated by the Village. The annual fee for a Class L license shall be as
set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is authorized to
issue a Class L license to a theater which is proposed to be constructed or is
under construction within the Village; provided, that such license shall be
subject to revocation in the event that a certificate of occupancy is not
issued for the premises for which the license is issued within two (2) years
after the initial issuance of the license.
   T.   Class M License: A Class M license authorizes the holder of a Class A
license to sell alcoholic spirits by the drink and beer or wine by the drink,
pitcher, bottle or carafe where the alcoholic spirits, beer and wine are both
delivered and served by the licensee on premises located outside the corporate
limits of the Village which are contiguous to the premises for which the Class
A license was issued. The annual fee for a Class M license shall be as set
forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is authorized to
issue a Class M license to a hotel where the premises on which the alcoholic
liquor is to be sold or delivered is under construction; provided, that such
license shall be subject to revocation in the event that a certificate of
occupancy is not issued for such premises within one year after the initial
issuance of the license.
   U.   Class N License: A Class N license authorizes the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on premises located in the Village for which a
license authorizing the sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor has not been
issued where the alcoholic liquor is both delivered and served by the licensee
incidental to the sale, delivery and serving of food by the licensee. A Class N
license shall permit a licensee to deliver and serve alcoholic liquor on the
same premises on not more than one day during any thirty (30) day period. All
beer and wine that is served by a Class N liquor license holder shall be served
in a glass bottle or other container that holds not more that sixteen (16)
ounces; provided, that an open bottle containing not more than two (2) liters
of wine may be placed on a table where food is to be served if the wine is
intended to be consumed as part of a meal. All alcoholic liquor, other than
beer and wine, that is served by a Class N liquor license holder shall be
served in a glass or other container that holds not more than eight (8) ounces.
The license fee for a Class N license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee
Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   V.   Class N(1) License: A Class N(1) license authorizes the retail service
of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the licensed premises in conjunction
with the serving of food by the licensee. The premises for which a Class N(1)
license is issued shall not have any other license authorizing the sale or
delivery of alcoholic liquor. The premises for which a Class N(1) license is
issued shall only serve alcoholic liquor during the hours between five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on no more than six (6) days per
calendar year and shall not be allowed to serve alcoholic liquor on more than
two (2) days during any calendar month. The Class N(1) licensee shall give the
Liquor Control Commissioner at least five (5) business days’ written notice of
the dates and times in which it intends to sell and/or serve alcoholic liquor
on the licensed premises. The premises of a Class N(1) license shall not be
open to the general public on the dates and times when alcoholic liquor is
being served as the sale and service of alcoholic liquor shall only be to those
that have been invited to be in attendance. During the dates and hours when
alcoholic liquor is allowed to be served on the premises, a Class N(1) licensee
shall also be allowed to sell unopened bottles and/or cases of wine and spirits
for off premises consumption to individuals invited to the premises. The holder
of a Class N(1) license shall be allowed to sell and ship bottles and cases of
alcoholic liquor to fulfill orders received through its Internet website in
accordance with all the requirements of State law. The annual fee for a Class N
(l) license shall be that set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-
10-1A of this Code.
   W.   Class O License: A Class O license authorizes the holder of a Class B
license to open and serve previously unopened bottles of wine that are brought
to the premises by a customer as part of the customer’s purchase of a meal. The
license fee for each Class O license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee
Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   X.   Class P License: A Class P license authorizes the holder of a Class A,
Class B, Class B(1), Class D, Class F, Class G, or Class K license to utilize
their respective liquor license in a patio or seating area that is not located
within the interior of the licensed premises. After January 1, 2012, the holder
of a Class A, Class B, Class B(1), Class D, Class F, Class G, or Class K liquor
license shall not utilize his respective liquor license in a patio or seating
area that is not located within the interior of the licensed premises unless he
also possesses a Class P license. A Class P license shall not be issued unless
the applicant submits an application which includes: 1) written documentation
from the landlord of a leased facility which consents and agrees to the
applicant’s use of the outdoor patio or seating area; 2) written proof that the
applicant’s dramshop coverage includes the outdoor patio and seating area; 3) a
dimensioned drawing showing: a) the location of the outdoor patio or seating
area and its relationship to the interior of the premises, and any adjacent
buildings, walkways, drive aisles and parking lots; b) that the patio or
outdoor area is not located within any applicable side, front or rear setback
area; c) a safe means of ingress and egress to and from the patio or outdoor
seating area from the interior of the premises; and d) the use of barricades,
railings or similar devices that are at least three feet (3') in height to
surround the patio or outdoor area and serve to hinder entry into the area
without the knowledge of the applicant or its employees. The license fee for a
Class P license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   Y.   Class S License: A Class S license authorizes the serving of alcoholic
beverages on the premises specified for the purpose of tasting or sampling
alcoholic beverages on the premises for a period not to exceed ten (10)
consecutive days. The "premises" of a Class S license shall mean a government
owned exposition center, stadium or the Village of Rosemont owned common area
of the Parkway Bank Entertainment District. The license fee for a Class S
license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. The holder of a Class S License shall comply with all the
requirements of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission's rules and regulations
for the tasting and sampling of alcoholic beverages, including, but not limited
to, any limitations in effect on the volume of the serving being sampled. An
applicant for a Class S license must submit with the application proof
satisfactory to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner that the applicant has
made arrangements to provide dramshop liability insurance which shall provide
coverage for any liability arising under or pursuant to section 6-21 of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/6-21). If the applicant is seeking a
Class S license for the serving of alcoholic liquor on premises owned or leased
by the Village, the applicant must provide proof that the required dramshop
liability insurance policy names the Village as an additional insured.
   Z.   Class W (Wine Tasting With Related Package Sales) : A Class W license
authorizes the holder of a Class B license to hold a wine tasting event at
which the Class B license holder may engage in the retail package sale of
bottles of the wine presented for tasting during the event. The wine tasting
event must be held on the premises for which the Class B License was granted
with the retail package sale of the wine presented for tasting only being
allowed during the period of the wine tasting event. A Class W license is a
temporary license that shall only be granted for a specific date and time
period, the duration of which shall not be for more than five (5) hours. The
license fee for a temporary Class W license shall be as set forth in the
Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   AA.   Class W(1) License (Special Event Wine Tasting With Related Package
Sales) : A Class W(1) license authorizes the holding of a wine tasting special
event on the premises specified and the retail sale of unopened bottles and/or
cases of wine presented for tasting. The wine tasting special event must be
held on the premises for which the Class W(1) license was granted at a time
that shall not be earlier than six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and shall not be later
than nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. The holder of a Class W(1) license shall not hold
more than six (6) wine tasting special events in a calendar year. The Class W
(1) license holder shall give the Village written notice of each date and time
he is holding a wine tasting special event at least ten (10) business days
prior to the date of the special wine tasting event. The written notice for
each event must include the date and time of the wine tasting special event,
identify the wines and vintages that will be presented for tasting at the event
and include a certificate showing that the Class W(1) licensee has dramshop
insurance coverage for the event which names the Village as an additional
insured. The conduct of the wine tasting special event shall comply with all
requirements of the Illinois Liquor Control Act and all the rules and
regulations of the Illinois Liquor Commission. The license fee for a Class W(1)
license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code.
   BB.   Class BYOB License: A Class BYOB license authorizes the holder to
allow the consumption of a customer’s beer or wine brought by the customer onto
the premises of a restaurant possessing a BYOB license for consumption by the
customer and his or her guests being of legal age on the premises of the
restaurant as a complement to the consumption of a meal purchased from the
restaurant. The consumption of BYOB beer or wine must be incidental and
complementary to the service of a meal, and only during the time that the
restaurant’s kitchen is open and offering full menu service. The licensee may
charge a corkage fee for opening a bottle of wine. Every container of wine
brought onto the premises by a patron must be opened by restaurant personnel.
It shall be unlawful for any patron to leave the premises with a partially
consumed container of wine unless it is securely sealed by restaurant personnel
prior to removal from the premises and placed in a transparent one time use
tamperproof bag, as required by State law and in accordance with the Illinois
Liquor Control Act.
   CC.   Class VG License: A Class VG license authorizes a holder of a Class A,
Class B, Class E(1), Class E(3) and Class L liquor license to conduct video
gaming upon receipt and compliance with a video gaming establishment license
received from the Village. The license fee for each class VG license shall be
set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code, and shall be in addition to the fee charged for the Class
A, Class B, Class E(1), Class E(3) and Class L liquor licenses. The Village
shall create a combined application for both the Class VG and video gaming
establishment license and charge a combined application fee as set forth in the
Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. The Village shall also charge a combined license fee as
set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1A of this Code. Class VG liquor licenses and a video gaming establishment
license shall be valid for a full twelve (12) month period beginning as of the
first day of the month the license was issued by the Village and may thereafter
be renewed upon compliance with the terms of all Village ordinances and the
payment of all applicable application and license fees.
(Ord. 2013-11-13D, 11-13-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-11-12F, 11-12-2014; Ord. 2016-8-
10P, 8-10-2016; Ord. 2017-10-11F, 10-11-2017; Ord. 2017-11-8H, 11-8-2017; Ord.
2018-9-12C, 9-12-2018; Ord. 2018-11-14C, 11-14-2018; 2019 Code; Ord. 2019-8-
14C, 8-14-2019; Ord. 2020-6-10A, 6-10-2020; Ord. 2021-3-8K, 3-8-2021; Ord.
2022-2-14E, 2-14-2022; Ord. 2024-1-8C, 1-8-2021; Ord. 2024-2-12, 2-12-2024)
4-2-7.5: RETAILER'S LICENSE:
Holders of a Village of Rosemont Liquor license authorizing the sale of any
alcoholic liquor at retail that also have received a retailer's license from
the Illinois Liquor Control Commission that is necessary to sell and transfer
cocktails, mixed drinks and single servings of wine shall have the ability to
sell and transfer cocktails, mixed drinks and single servings of wine as
provided in this Section
4-2-7.5 as follows:
   A.   In this Section:
COCKTAIL OR MIXED DRINK. Any beverage obtained by combining ingredients
alcoholic in nature, whether brewed, fermented, or distilled, with ingredients
non-alcoholic in nature, such as fruit juice, lemonade, cream, or a carbonated
beverage.
ORIGINAL CONTAINER. For the purposes of this Section only, a container that is:
      1.   Filled, sealed, and secured by a retail licensee's employee at the
retail licensee's location with a tamper-evident lid or cap; or
      2.   Filled and labeled by the manufacturer and secured by the
manufacturer's original unbroken seal.
SEALED CONTAINER. A rigid container that contains a mixed drink or a single
serving of wine, is new, has never been used, has a secured lid or cap designed
to prevent consumption without removal of the lid or cap, and is tamper-
evident. SEALED CONTAINER includes a manufacturer's original container as
defined in this subsection. SEALED CONTAINER does not include a container with
a lid with sipping holes or openings for straws or a container made of plastic,
paper, or polystyrene foam.
TAMPER-EVIDENT. A lid or cap that has been sealed with tamper-evident covers,
including, but not limited to, wax dip or heat shrink wrap.
   B.   A cocktail, mixed drink, or single serving of wine placed in a sealed
container by a retail licensee at the retail licensee's location or a
manufacturer's original container may be transferred and sold for off-premises
consumption if the following requirements are met:
      1.   the cocktail, mixed drink, or single serving of wine is transferred
within the licensed premises, by a curbside pickup, or by delivery by an
employee of the retail licensee who:
         a.   Has been trained in accordance with a Beverage Alcohol Sellers
and Servers Education and Training (BASSET) program pursuant to Section
4-2-14 at the time of the sale;
         b.   Is at least twenty-one (21) years of age; and
         c.   Upon delivery, verifies the age of the person to whom the
cocktail, mixed drink, or single serving of wine is being delivered;
      2.   If the employee delivering the cocktail, mixed drink, or single
serving of wine is not able to safely verify a person's age or level of
intoxication upon delivery, the employee shall cancel the sale of alcohol and
return the product to the retail license holder;
      3.   The sealed container is placed in the trunk of the vehicle or if
there is no trunk, in the vehicle's rear compartment that is not readily
accessible to the passenger area;
      4.   Except for a manufacturer's original container, a container filled
and sealed at a retail licensee's location shall be affixed with a label or tag
that contains the following information:
         a.   The cocktail or mixed drink ingredients, type, and name of the
alcohol;
         b.   The name, license number, and address of the retail licensee that
filled the original container and sold the product;
         c.   The volume of the cocktail, mixed drink, or single serving of
wine in the sealed container; and
         d.   The sealed container was filled less than seven (7) days before
the date of sale; and
      5.   A manufacturer's original container shall be affixed with a label or
tag that contains the name, license number, and address of the retail licensee
that sold the product.
   C.   Third-party delivery services are not permitted to deliver cocktails
and mixed drinks under this Section.
   D.   If there is an executive order of the Governor in effect during a
disaster, the employee delivering the mixed drink, cocktail, or single serving
of wine must comply with any requirements of that executive order, including,
but not limited to, wearing gloves and a mask and maintaining distancing
requirements when interacting with the public.
   E.   Delivery or carry out of a cocktail, mixed drink, or single serving of
wine is prohibited if:
      1.   A third party delivers the cocktail or mixed drink;
      2.   A container of a mixed drink, cocktail, or single serving of wine is
not tamper-evident and sealed;
      3.   A container of a mixed drink, cocktail, or single serving of wine is
transported in the passenger area of a vehicle;
      4.   A mixed drink, cocktail, or single serving of wine is delivered by a
person or to a person who is under the age of twenty-one (21); or
      5.   The person delivering a mixed drink, cocktail, or single serving of
wine fails to verify the age of the person to whom the mixed drink or cocktail
is being delivered.
   F.   Violations of this Section shall be subject to any applicable
penalties, including, but not limited to, the penalties specified under Section
11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   G.   This Section
4-2-7.5 is repealed on January 3, 2024.
(Ord. 2021-9-13C, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2021-11-8A, 11-8-2021)
4-2-7.6: DELIVERY OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR - EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2022:
   A.   Definitions. In this section
4-2-7.6 :
DELIVERY. The movement of alcoholic liquor in its original container purchased
from a licensed retailer to a consumer through the following methods:
         a.   Delivery within a licensed retailer's parking lot, including
curbside, for pickup by the consumer;
         b.   Delivery by an owner, officer, director, shareholder, or employer
of the licensed retailer; or
         c.   Delivery by a third-party contractor, independent contractor, or
agent with whom the licensed retailer has contracted to make deliveries of
alcoholic liquors.
Under the above Subsections a., b., or c., delivery shall not include the use
of common carriers.
   B.   Permitted Deliveries. On and after January 1, 2022, the holder of a
Village of Rosemont liquor license authorizing retail sales may make a delivery
of alcoholic liquor in its original container to the purchaser for use or
consumption provided that all of the following requirements are met:
      1.   The Village license holder shall also hold a retailer's license
issued by the State of Illinois that authorizes the delivery of liquor
allowable by this section.;
      2.   The delivery shall be made only within twelve (12) hours from the
time the alcoholic liquor leaves the licensed premises of the retailer for
delivery;
      3.   All the applicable requirements, conditions and limitations of 235
ILCS 5/6-16 are complied with including, but not limited to:
         a.   The prohibition against delivering or giving alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years;
         b.   The prohibition against delivering or giving alcoholic liquor to
any person that is intoxicated;
         c.   The requirement that a contract carrier or any agent or employee
of a contract carrier obtain a signature at the time of delivery acknowledging
receipt of the alcoholic liquor by an adult that is at least twenty-one (21)
years of age; and
         d.   The requirement that a contract carrier or any agent or employee
of a contract carrier delivering to a residential address obtain an
acknowledgement of the consignee and a signature at the time of delivery
acknowledging receipt of the alcoholic liquor by an adult that is at least
twenty-one (21) years of age;
      4.   If the delivery is made by a State of Illinois wine shippers'
licensee, the delivery shall also be in full compliance with all the applicable
requirements, conditions and limitations of 235 ILCS 5/6-29; and
      5.   The delivery is not in violation of 235 ILCS 5/6-29.1 which
prohibits certain shipments of alcoholic liquor from points outside of the
State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2021-9-13C, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2021-11-8A, 11-8-2021)
4-2-7.7: DELIVERY OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR - PRIOR TO JANUARY 1, 2022:
In accordance with Section 5/5-1(d) of the Illinois Liquor Control Act (235
ILCS 5/5-1(d)) in effect prior to January 1, 2022 which allows the delivery of
alcoholic liquor pursuant to any local law or ordinance subject to the
requirements, conditions and limitations of 235 ILCS 5/6-16, 5/6-29 and 5/6-
29.1, the holder of a Village of Rosemont liquor license authorizing retail
sales may, effective immediately make a delivery of alcoholic liquor in its
original container to the purchaser for use or consumption upon compliance with
all the same requirements, conditions and limitations set forth in Section
4-2-7.6. This section
4-2-7.7 shall be automatically repealed on January 1, 2022.
(Ord. 2021-9-13C, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2021-11-8A, 11-8-2021)
4-2-7.8: PROHIBITION ON THE DELIVERY OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY A RETAIL LICENSEE
IN ANY MANNER OTHER THAN THOSE AUTHORIZED BY SECTIONS 4-2-7.5, 4-2-7.6, AND 4-
2-7.7 OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES:
The holder of a Village of Rosemont liquor license authorizing sale at retail
may only deliver alcoholic liquor as may be authorized in Sections
4-2-7.5,
4-2-7.6 and
4-2-7.7 of the Village of Rosemont's Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-9-13C, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2021-11-8A, 11-8-2021)
4-2-8: PAYMENT OF FEES; PRORATION; DISPOSITION:
   A.   1.   The application fee and the license fee for each retail liquor
license must be paid in full to the Village at the time the application for
liquor license is filed and at each time renewal of a liquor license is
requested. Except, the license fee for new licensees shall be pro-rated by
quarter based upon the date of the initial application as follows:
         First quarter (January 1 through March 31): One hundred percent (100%)
of license fee.
         Second quarter (April 1 through June 30): Seventy five percent (75%)
of license fee.
         Third quarter (July 1 through September 30): Fifty percent (50%) of
license fee.
         Fourth quarter (October 1 through December 31): Twenty five percent
(25%) of license fee.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amounts owed for a new Class M or
a new Class O liquor license shall not be prorated.
   B.   Where an application for a Class A, B, D, or E(1) liquor license is
applied for at a time when the premises to which such application is applicable
is proposed to be constructed or is under construction, the payment of the
amount of the license fee shall be prorated as in subsection A1 of this section
based upon the date an occupancy permit is requested and paid as a condition to
the issuance of the occupancy permit.
   C.   In the event the license applied for is denied, the license fee shall
be returned to the applicant. If the license is granted, the license fee shall
be deposited in the General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have
been designated by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, the Liquor
Commissioner may pro-rate or rebate any liquor license fee when special or
extraordinary circumstances arise or as otherwise deemed advisable to promote
the development of property.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2021-1-11D, 1-11-2021; Ord. 2021-3-8K,
3-8-2021)
4-2-9: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Number Established: The maximum number of each liquor license
classification that may be issued or in effect at any one time shall not exceed
the number set forth below for each classification:
Class A    15 licenses
Class B    21 licenses
Class B(1) 0 license
Class B(2) 1 license
Class B(3) 2 license
Class B(4) 1 license
Class C    10 licenses
Class D    0 license
Class E    6 licenses
Class E(1) 9 licenses
Class E(2) 11 licenses
Class E(3) 1 license
Class F    2 licenses
Class G    Temporary license issued on a one day basis
Class I    2 license
Class I(1) 1 license
Class J    Temporary licenses - see Section
           4.2.7 - Class J licenses
Class K    0 license
Class L    1 license
Class M    1 license
Class N    Temporary license issued on a one day basis
Class N(1) 0 license
Class O    0 license
Class P    Patio license - see Section
           4.2.7 - Class P licenses
Class S    Temporary license issued on a one day basis
Class W    Temporary license issued on a one day basis
Class W(1) Temporary license issued on a one day basis
Class BYOB No limit
Class VG   3 licenses
In the event the holder of any of the above liquor license classifications has
their license/licenses revoked or fails to renew their license(s) or ceases
operations, the number of the allowable liquor licenses in each of the
categories held by such liquor license holder shall automatically be reduced
by one without any action required by the Village Board of Trustees. An
increase in the number of any liquor license classification can only occur
upon the approval of the Village of Rosemont Board of Trustees.
 
(Ord. 2018-2-14R, 2-14-2018; Ord. 2020-6-20A, 6-10-2020; Ord. 2021-11-8A, 11-8-
2021)
   B.   Reduction Of Number: Nothing in this chapter contained shall be
construed as limiting or defeating, in any way, the lawful right of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village to decrease the number of liquor licenses
to be issued or to decrease the number of licenses from time to time
outstanding.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2018-2-14R, 2-14-2018; Ord. 2020-6-20A,
6-10-2020; Ord. 2021-11-8A, 11-8-2021; Ord. 2024-2-12, 2-12-2024)
4-2-10: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each retail liquor license shall be issued on an annual basis covering the
period from January 1 to December 31.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-11: NATURE OF LICENSE:
   A.   A liquor license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for the
period ending as of December 31 of the year in which it was granted unless
sooner revoked as provided by law, and shall not constitute property nor shall
it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated.
   B.   A liquor licensee shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee may continue the business of the
sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise
the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the
death of such decedent or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of
such license, but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee.
(Ord. 2011-8-1OA, 8-10-2011)
4-2-12: POSTING LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause his license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-13: INTERIM LICENSES:
   A.   If the ownership or leasehold interest in the premises for which a
liquor license has been issued changes as a result of: 1) the sale of the
liquidated premises or leasehold interest; 2) the foreclosure of a mortgage; 3)
the filing of a bankruptcy petition or other petition seeking relief or any
other form of debtor’s relief; 4) as the result of an entry of a court order;
or 5) if the management of the premises for which a liquor license has been
issued is changed, then the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the
authority to issue an interim liquor license for the licensed premises for a
period not to exceed sixty (60) days, provided:
      1.   The interim liquor license is for the same class of license as had
previously been issued for the premises.
      2.   The new owner or manager has filed an application for a new liquor
license.
      3.   The new owner or manager has paid the applicable license fee to the
Village.
      4.   It appears, based on the information contained in the application
for a new liquor license, that the applicant will meet the requirements for the
issuance of a liquor license, and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is not
otherwise aware of any reason that the applicant will not meet the requirements
of this Code or any other applicable ordinance or law for the issuance of a
Village liquor license.
   B.   In the event that the interim liquor license expires and a regular
liquor license is not issued to the applicant for the premises, the applicant
shall not be entitled to a refund of all or any part of the license fee paid to
the Village.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-14: BASSETT TRAINING REQUIRED:
The manager of any premises licensed to sell or serve any alcoholic liquor, all
individuals engaged in the serving of any alcoholic liquor on any licensed
premises and all individuals that supervise any individuals that serve
alcoholic liquor on any licensed premises shall provide the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner with current valid certification that they have
successfully completed a beverage alcohol sellers and servers education and
training (BASSET) program licensed by the State of Illinois Liquor Control
Commission on or before the later of: a) January 1, 2012; b) ninety (90)
calendar days within the first date of their employment at a licensed premises;
or c) ninety (90) days after the receipt of an occupancy permit for a licensed
premises. Each person required to provide certification of their successful
completion of a beverage alcohol sellers and servers education and training
(BASSET) program shall be required to maintain and renew their certification
prior to its expiration date. Copies of all BASSET certificates shall be kept
on the licensed premises and shall be made available to Village employees upon
request.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-15: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR CERTAIN LICENSEES:
   A.   Partially Consumed Bottles Of Wine: Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter, any Class B, B(2), D, E(1) , K, or L licensee may permit a
patron to remove one partially consumed bottle of wine for off premises
consumption so long as there is compliance with the following conditions: 1)
the patron has purchased a meal or hors d’oeuvres and consumed a portion of the
bottle of wine with the meal or hors d’oeuvres on the licensed premises; and 2)
the partially consumed bottle of wine that is to be removed from the premises
pursuant to this subsection is recorked or capped to prevent spillage and
placed in a securely sealed one time use transparent tamperproof bag by the
licensee prior to removal from the premises; and 3) the licensee has provided a
dated and time-stamped receipt for the specific bottle of wine to the patron.
It shall be the absolute duty of the licensee to assure that the type of
“tamperproof” bag that is used is such that any removal or attempted removal of
the bottle from the bag will be obvious to any law enforcement officer. The
wine that is resealed in accordance with the provisions of this subsection and
not tampered with shall not be deemed an unsealed container for the purposes of
section 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-502).
(Ord. 2014-2-12N, 2-12-2014)
   B.    Class E(1) Licensees:
      1.   Exterior Patios And/Or Seating Areas: A Class E(1) license holder
that leases any exterior patio or seating area at which it serves any alcoholic
liquor and, to the extent applicable, all patrons of any exterior patio or
seating area, must comply with all of the following:
         a.   The exterior patio or seating area must be defined and separated
from the common area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District by fencing
which is not less than three feet (3') in height or other materials or methods
designed to prevent access to the area by individuals that are not customers of
the licensed premises.
         b.   The transfer of any alcoholic liquor over the fence or other
material or method used to define the exterior patio or seating area shall be
strictly prohibited.
         c.   Access to any nonemergency exits from the patio or seating area
shall only be through the interior of the premises or through no more than one
exterior access point that is monitored by employees of the premises that have
successfully completed a beverage alcohol sellers and servers education and
training (BASSET) program licensed by the State of Illinois Liquor Control
Commission.
      2.   Sale Of Alcoholic Liquor To Be Consumed In Common Area Of The Park
At Rosemont Entertainment District: A Class E(1) license holder that serves any
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the common area of The Park at Rosemont
Entertainment District and, to the extent applicable, all patrons purchasing or
consuming any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the common area of the Park
at Rosemont Entertainment District must comply with all of the following:
         a.   No person shall be allowed to consume any alcoholic liquor within
the common area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District unless that
alcoholic liquor is purchased from an authorized vendor with a Class E(1)
liquor license.
         b.   All beverages, including any alcoholic liquor, served by a Class
E(1) license holder for consumption in the common area of The Park at Rosemont
Entertainment District shall be in a plastic cup bearing the name, insignia or
other approved logo of the vendor of the drink. The plastic cups for any
alcoholic liquor shall be easily distinguishable from the plastic cups used for
beverages that do not contain any alcoholic liquor. The cups used by each
vendor shall also be easily distinguishable from the cups used by any other
vendor serving the common area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District.
All cups used for alcoholic liquor and other beverages shall be approved by the
Village.
         c.   No person shall be allowed to bring any beverage or alcoholic
liquor into the premises of any Class E(1) license holder unless it was
purchased upon the premises for which entry is sought. However, any Class E(1)
license holder may, in its discretion, adopt its own policy preventing anyone
from entering its leased premises with any alcoholic liquor or beverage.
         d.   No person shall leave The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District
with any alcoholic liquor or any other beverage.
         e.   No cans, bottles, or glass beverage containers shall be permitted
within the common area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District.
         f.   No more than two (2) drinks of any type of alcoholic liquor may
be served as part of any transaction to any individual for consumption on the
common area of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District.
         g.   The Village shall be authorized to further restrict and/or ban
the consumption of any alcoholic liquor or other beverages on the common area
of The Park at Rosemont Entertainment District for any event(s) held in the
common area if the Village, in its sole discretion, determines that: 1) the
consumption of any particular type or brand of beverage on the common area
would be inappropriate for the event being held; 2) the additional restrictions
are required as a result of any contractual agreement related to the event
being held; or 3) the public health, safety and welfare requires further
restrictions.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
   C.   Class L Licensees: A movie or live performance theater that holds a
Class L liquor license shall, in addition to complying with all State and
Village requirements for the sale of alcohol, also comply with each and every
one of the following restrictions:
      1.   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or served to individuals under
twenty one (21) years of age.
      2.   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or served to intoxicated
persons.
      3.   There must be a manager that is over age twenty one (21) on duty at
the
      premises of the Class L license holder at all times when alcohol is
available for sale .
(Ord. 2019-10-9A, 10-9-2019)
      4.   Any employee mixing and/or pouring alcohol must be twenty one (21)
years of age or older.
(Ord. 2019-10-9A, 10-9-2019)
      5.   There shall be no open spaces within theater auditoriums allowing
for patron standing or dancing during film showings or any performance. All
auditoriums must have fixed seats available for each patron with the exception
of open spaces reserved for patrons using wheelchairs.
      6.   Alcoholic beverages can only be sold or served to individuals that
have purchased a ticket to view a film showing or performance.
      7.   Fixed concession stands located outside of the auditorium must offer
food and nonalcoholic beverages for purchase at any time alcoholic beverages
are available for purchase.
      8.   The identification of any ticketed patron being sold or served an
alcoholic beverage must be checked before the sale or service of any alcoholic
beverage. The identification must be a current (not expired) state issued
picture identification or a current valid federally issued military
identification. The identification must establish that the patron purchasing or
being served alcohol is twenty one (21) years of age or older. The
identification shall be checked before the transfer of any alcoholic beverage
to the patron at the alcohol sales register. If the purchase/service of alcohol
is made through waitstaff, the waitstaff shall check the identification at the
time of ordering.
      9.   The manager on duty at the licensed premises and all individuals
engaged in the selling or serving of any alcoholic liquor on the licensed
premises shall provide the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with current valid
certification that they have successfully completed a beverage alcohol sellers
and servers education and training (BASSET) program licensed by the State of
Illinois Liquor Control Commission. Each person required to provide
certification of their successful completion of a beverage alcohol sellers and
servers education and training (BASSET) program shall be required to maintain
and renew its certification prior to its expiration date. The BASSET training
shall include instruction on the types of acceptable identification and on
determining the validity of identification (i.e., forged, altered, counterfeit
and expired).
      10.   Employees shall receive training on patron removal procedures for
any and all patrons that appear to be intoxicated or who are found or suspected
of violating this subsection. Records of training each employee receives shall
be maintained on the premises and made available to Village employees upon
request. Employees shall alert the on duty manager to evaluate any patron
exhibiting signs of intoxication if the sale/service of alcoholic beverages to
the patron must be stopped or if the patron must be removed from the premises.
      11.   Containers used to serve alcoholic drinks shall be clearly
distinguishable from those used to serve nonalcoholic beverages. All cups used
for alcoholic liquor and other beverages shall be approved by the Village in
advance.
      12.   A patron shall not be served more than two (2) drinks at a time.
For the purposes of this subsection only, a “drink” shall mean, regardless of
glass or container size, a single serving of alcoholic spirits which has no
more than three (3) ounces of spirits of one hundred (100) proof or less, a
single serving of beer which is not more than twenty four (24) ounces, or a
single serving of wine which is not more than eight (8) ounces. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the sale and service of bottles of wine shall also be permitted.
However, partially consumed bottles of wine may not be removed from the
auditorium where it was opened or consumed.
(Ord. 2019-10-9A, 10-9-2019)
      13.   If a patron appears underage and is in possession of an alcoholic
beverage container, an employee must ask to see the patron’s identification and
verify he can purchase and consume alcohol.
      14.   Any minor found with an alcoholic beverage will have the beverage
immediately removed, and the minor will be required to leave the premises. Any
person found to have given an alcoholic beverage to a minor will be required to
immediately leave the premises.
      15.   No alcoholic beverage will be sold or served before eleven o'clock
(11:00) A.M. No alcoholic beverage shall be sold or served one-half (1/2) hour
before the end of the last film/performance or after two o'clock (2:00) A.M.,
whichever is earlier.
      16.   Alcoholic beverages shall not be permitted beyond the exits of the
Class L premises. Signage shall be posted at each exit stating that no
alcoholic beverages may be permitted beyond the Class L premises.
      17.   Staff shall periodically visually monitor each auditorium for the
consumption of alcoholic beverages in violation of this subsection. A log sheet
showing the dates and times monitoring was accomplished and the identity of the
person performing the monitoring shall be made and maintained for and shall be
turned over to Village employees upon request.
(Ord. 2019-10-9A, 10-9-2019)
      18.   A record shall be maintained of all on site incidents requiring
removal of a patron from the premises or calls to law enforcement related to
the consumption of alcohol on the premises. These records shall be provided to
Village employees upon request and shall include the date and time of the
incident, the identity of the patron involved, if it can be determined, and a
description of the incident and the employees involved.
(Ord. 2018-2-14R, 2-14-2018)
4-2-16: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100) of any church, school, other than an
institution of higher learning, hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons
or for veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval station;
provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels or motels offering
restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or restaurants, food shops or
other places where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business.
   B.   Subsection A of this section shall not prohibit the renewal of a
license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one
hundred feet (100) of any church or school where the church or school has been
established within such one hundred feet (100) since the issuance of the
original license. In the case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet
(100) shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship
services or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
   C.   Subsection A of this section shall not prohibit the issuance of a
retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a
restaurant if: 1) the primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale
of food where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the
applicant is a completely new owner of the restaurant; 2) the immediately prior
owner or operator of the premises where the restaurant is located operated the
premises as a restaurant and held a valid retail license authorizing the sale
of alcoholic liquor at the restaurant for at least part of the twenty four (24)
months before the change of ownership; and 3) the restaurant is located seventy
five feet (75) or more from a school.
   D.   This section shall not apply to any location within or upon the
premises of a hotel or motel.
   E.   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-17: ACCESS FROM LICENSED PREMISES TO DWELLING QUARTERS:
   A.   Except in the case of hotels and motels, no alcoholic liquor shall be
sold at retail upon any premises which has any access which leads directly from
such premises to any other portion of the same building or structure used for
dwelling or lodging purposes and which is permitted to be used or kept
accessible for use by the public.
   B.   This section shall not prevent any connection between such premises and
such other portion of the building or structure which is used only by the
licensee, his family and personal guests.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-18: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or
for the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition, and shall be kept and maintained in full compliance with
this Code, the Building Code, Fire Code, Health Code and other ordinances of
the Village regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale
of food for human consumption.
   B.   Employees:
      1.   No person shall employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is the carrier of,
any contagious, infectious or venereal disease.
      2.   No person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease
shall work in or about any premises, or engage in any way in the handling,
preparation or distribution of such liquor.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-19: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   Closing Hours:
      1.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class A license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      2.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class B, B(1), or O
license, shall sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      3.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class B(2) license,
shall sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the
hours seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Sunday and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on
Monday and between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock
(11:00) A.M. on all other days.
      4.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class C license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on Sunday and
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on
other days.
      5.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class D license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      6.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class E license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
      7.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class E(1) license,
shall sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      8.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class F license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Saturday and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on Sunday,
and on other days, between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. the following day.
      9.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class I license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      10.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class K license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      11.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class L license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
      12.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class M license, shall
deliver any alcoholic liquor to premises located outside the corporate limits
of the Village between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M.
      13.   No licensee under a Class N license shall deliver or serve any
alcoholic liquor between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      14.   No licensee hereunder, as a retailer under a Class S license, shall
sell or permit to be sold or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. the following day.
      15.   Effective on and after March 8, 2021, no recipient of a liquor
license shall receive any privilege which allows or permits the extension of
the time for selling alcoholic liquor until the hour of four o'clock (4:00)
A.M. Except, any liquor license holder that was previously granted the
privilege of remaining open and selling alcoholic liquor until the hour of four
o'clock (4:00) A.M. during the 2020 calendar year, shall, upon renewal of this
privilege for the 2021 calendar year, be allowed to continue to remain open and
sell alcoholic liquor until four o'clock (4:00) A.M. on December 31, 2021,
after which their privilege to remain open and sell alcoholic liquor until four
o'clock (4:00) A.M. shall expire and not be renewed. In the event any liquor
license holder advises the Village in writing of their intent to abandon their
privilege of selling alcoholic liquor until four o'clock (4:00) A.M. prior to
May 1, 2021, and ceases their practice of selling liquor until four o'clock (4:
00) A.M., the Village shall fully refund the five hundred dollar ($500.00) fee
previously paid by them for the extended four o'clock (4:00) A.M. hours.
      16.   No person shall keep open for business, or admit the public to any
premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail or served during the
hours within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited; provided, that in the
case of restaurants, motels and hotels, such establishments may keep open
during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to, given away or
consumed by the public during such hours.
   B.   Sunday Sales: Licensees under this chapter are authorized to sell
alcoholic liquor on Sunday in accordance with the authority granted by the type
of license they hold. However, the closing hours prescribed in subsection A of
this section shall apply to Sunday as well as the other days of the week.
   C.   Sales On Election Days: The sale at retail of alcoholic liquor shall be
allowed within the Village on the day of any National, State, County or
Municipal election, including primary elections, during the hours the polls are
open.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2013-10-16F, 10-16-2013; 2019 Code; Ord.
2021-3-8K, 3-8-2021)
4-2-20: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person,
except as provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-21: MINORS:
   A.   Providing To: No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining
alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another
person under the age of twenty one (21) years except in the performance of a
religious ceremony or service, and except, that a parent or guardian may allow
the consumption of alcoholic liquor by an underage person under such parent’s
or guardian’s direct supervision and approval in the privacy of a home.
   B.   Purchase Or Acceptance: Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age shall not, except as provided
in this section, purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have
alcoholic liquor in his possession; except, that persons under the age of
twenty one (21) may be in possession of alcoholic liquor while making a
delivery of an alcoholic liquor pursuant to the order of his parent or in
pursuance of his lawful employment.
   C.   Consumption By: The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years is forbidden; except, that the possession and
dispensing or consumption by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years under the direct
supervision and approval of the parents or parent or legal guardian of such
underage person in the privacy of a home is not prohibited.
   D.   Identification:
      1.   If a licensee, his agents or employees believes or has reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of
the nonage of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or
delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification
containing proof of age issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties.
      2.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
   E.   Employment: It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21)
years of age to draw, pour, mix or serve any alcoholic liquor in any licensed
premises. Except, a person under twenty one (21) years of age that is eighteen
(18) years of age or older may be in possession of alcoholic liquor on any
licensed premises while making a delivery of an alcoholic liquor pursuant to
his or her lawful employment.
   F.   Violations: No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have
possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-22: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Refilling Original Packages:
      1.   No person licensed under this chapter or his employee or agent shall
fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor
with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor.
      2.   No person shall have in his possession for sale at retail any
bottles, casks or other containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in
original packages.
   B.   Solicitations: No holder of a liquor license, his agent or employee,
shall allow, permit, or suffer to remain on his premises any person who shall
solicit for themselves or for others for prostitution, or solicit any patron to
purchase alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-23: EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS OF APPLICANTS AND LICENSEES:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner or his designee shall have the right to
examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license
or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or
suspension has been served, or any licensee against whom a citation proceeding
has been instituted by the State of Illinois Liquor Control Commission and to
examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any such applicant or
licensee or respondent, to hear testimony and take proof for his information in
the performance of his duties, and for such purpose, to issue subpoenas which
shall be effective in any part of this State. For the purpose of obtaining any
of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this
section, he may authorize his agent to act on his behalf. It shall be the duty
of every retail licensee to make books and records available upon reasonable
notice for the purpose of investigation and control by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner having jurisdiction over the licensee.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-24: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, in accordance with law and
the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended, revoke
or suspend any license issued by him if he determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of the act, this Code or any ordinance or
resolution enacted by the Corporate Authorities of the Village, or any
applicable rule or regulation established by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner or the State Commission which is not inconsistent with law.
   B.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, in accordance with law and
the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended, revoke a
license any time it is determined that any of the requirements of section
4-2-4 of this chapter are no longer met or any time the license holder has
ceased operations for a period of more than sixty (60) consecutive days at the
premises for which the license was issued.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-25: APPEALS TO STATE:
Any appeal of a decision of the Village Liquor Control Commissioner to the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission that is allowed by State law shall be
limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings before the
Village Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
4-2-26: PENALTIES:
Any liquor license holder that violates any provision of this chapter shall not
be fined more than the maximum amount allowed by section 7-5 of the Liquor
Control Act, as amended (235 ILCS 5/7-5). Any person, other than a liquor
license holder, who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2011-8-10A, 8-10-2011)
CHAPTER 3: COMMERCIAL FILMING AND TAPING
Section
4-3-1:   Village Authority; Application For Permit; Inspections
4-3-2:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-3-3:   Insurance; Indemnification; Security
4-3-4:   Permit Fees And Other Costs
4-3-5:   Time Restrictions On Activities
4-3-6:   Report Of Vehicles And Equipment
4-3-7:   Village Control Over Public Streets, Buildings And Filming Activities
4-3-8:   Storage Or Parking Of Vehicles And Equipment
4-3-9:   Notification Of Affected Persons
4-3-10:   Village Recognition Required
4-3-11:   Termination Of Permit
4-3-12:   Conflicting Provisions
4-3-1: VILLAGE AUTHORITY; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The Village President may authorize the use of any street, right-of-
way, or public building, equipment or personnel for commercial uses in the
filming or taping of movies, television programs, commercials, or training
films and related activities.
   B.   In conjunction with the above uses, the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department shall require that all of the conditions and/or
remuneration as specified on the application be met as a prerequisite to that
use. The application must be filed with the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department within the following time lines:
      1.   Feature films: Fourteen (14) days prior to filming.
      2.   Episodic television and any commercial film that is not a feature
film or a commercial: Seven (7) days prior to filming.
      3.   Commercials: Three (3) days prior to filming.
   C.   The applicant shall agree to allow the Department of Public Safety to
inspect all structures and/or devices and equipment to be used in connection
with the filming and taping if required by the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
4-3-2: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall refer the application
to the Department of Public Safety and to the Building Department, as deemed
necessary, for investigation.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
4-3-3: INSURANCE; INDEMNIFICATION; SECURITY:
   A.   Liability Insurance: The applicant shall furnish the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department with a certificate of liability insurance
naming the Village, its agents, officials and employees as additional insureds
with respect to the particular commercial filming or taping activity for which
a permit is sought, in the general liability amount (and automobile liability
amount, if applicable) of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury
or death to any person or for damage to any property from any occurrence
arising out of or in any way related to the applicant within the Village. The
applicant shall also submit to the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department proof of the appropriate workers’ compensation and employers
Liability insurance in force with respect to employees of the applicant.
   B.   Indemnification: In addition to the insurance requirement, the
applicant shall enter into a hold harmless and indemnification agreement, on
the form as provided by the Director of the Health and Licensing Department to
hold the Village harmless, defend and indemnify the Village with respect to any
loss, judgment, damages, costs and expenses, settlement and compromises, claims
and causes of action of every kind or nature, arising out of or in connection
with the commercial filming or taping activities within the Village for which a
permit is issued.
   C.   Security: In addition to the other requirements of this section and
this chapter, the applicant shall, as a part of his application, deposit with
the Village Finance Director or a surety bond in an amount as required by the
Village as security for the payment of any damage which may result to any
public way, public park or public building by reason of the applicant’s use of
the same pursuant to a permit to be issued herein. Any part of said deposit not
needed or used to repair, replace or restore damage so occasioned to public
property by the applicant at the end of the permit period shall be returned to
the applicant within ten (10) days after the expiration date. The surety bond
is required before a permit can be issued.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
4-3-4: PERMIT FEES AND OTHER COSTS:
The applicant shall pay the permit fees and costs for use of public buildings
and areas, and Village personnel, vehicles and equipment as set forth in the
Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1B of this Code. The Director of the Health and Licensing Department may
waive part or all the fees for a nonprofit organization upon approval of the
Village President.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G,7-2-2008)
4-3-5: TIME RESTRICTIONS ON ACTIVITIES:
   A.    The Director of the Health and Licensing Department may restrict or
limit the time for filming or taping activities during rush hour traffic or
during periods when schools or churches are in session within the affected
area, or whenever, in his judgment, circumstances warrant such limitation. The
Director of the Health and Licensing Department and a representative of the
filming company shall agree to times during each day after which no filming or
other activity related to the filming shall occur. The filming company shall be
fined at a rate not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any filming or other related
activities that occur past the agreed upon time.
   B.   Unless the Village President authorizes otherwise, only one filming or
taping production shall be authorized in the Village on any given day. The
Village restricts the commercial filming of the exterior or interior of any
single private residence to less than ten (10) days per calendar year unless
the express written permission of the Village President is given.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
4-3-6: REPORT OF VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   The applicant shall provide a report listing the number of vehicles and
types of equipment to be used during the filming or taping, including the
proposed hours of use and the proposed parking locations. All such parking
locations shall be reviewed and approved by the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department prior to their use.
   B.   Every applicant shall pay the full daily rate for every metered or
permit parking space occupied by any vehicles and equipment.
   C.   Equipment nonessential to actual filming should be kept at a project
base camp which will be determined in conjunction with the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
4-3-7: VILLAGE CONTROL OVER PUBLIC STREETS, BUILDINGS AND FILMING ACTIVITIES:
   A.   The Village shall have full and complete control over the use of public
streets and buildings of the Village while being used for filming or taping
activities, as well as control over the hours of production and the general
location of the production.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter a “total disruptive use” of a public
building shall mean any use which completely interrupts all business conducted
within the public building. A “partial disruptive use” of a public building
shall mean any use which interrupts only a portion of the business conducted
within the public building.
   C.   The Village reserves the full and absolute right to prohibit all
filming or to order cessation of filming if determined to be detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare, and the applicant shall acknowledge its
understanding and agreement of these Municipal powers as part of the
application.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
4-3-8: STORAGE OR PARKING OF VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT:
No public or private vehicles or equipment shall be stored on any park area,
sidewalk or public way or parked on any street in violation of any parking
restrictions without the prior written permission of the Director of the Health
and Licensing Department.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
4-3-9: NOTIFICATION OF AFFECTED PERSONS:
The applicant will assume full responsibility for notifying residents, business
owners, or other affected individuals within the two hundred (200) yard area of
the proposed filming activity. The notification shall include a resident
acknowledgement document. Residents will sign off on this document stating that
they either approve or disapprove of the proposed activity and the hours
involved. Seventy five percent (75%) of residents within the two hundred (200)
yard area must give their approval before a project can commence.
(Ord. 2013-11-13D, 11-13-2013)
4-3-10: VILLAGE RECOGNITION REQUIRED:
The Village shall be duly recognized in the publication of any film, tape or
periodical, which includes therein, public buildings or public areas of the
Village.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
4-3-11: TERMINATION OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued herein may be terminated by the Village President in the
event of a violation of any of the conditions and requirements established by
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department pursuant to this chapter,
or of any traffic law or other Village regulation, or of a deviation in the
production schedule, number of vehicles, equipment location or any other
information furnished by the applicant with respect to the permit application.
(Ord. 2013-11-13D, 11-13-2013)
4-3-12: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In the event that there is a conflict between this chapter and chapter 4,
article A of this title, chapter 4, article A of this title shall govern and
control.
(Ord. 2008-7-2G, 7-2-2008)
CHAPTER 4: PHOTOGRAPHERS
Section
4-4-1:   Definition
4-4-2:   License Required; Application
4-4-3:   Sanitary And Safety Requirements
4-4-4:   Compliance With Fire Regulations; Inspections
4-4-5:   Exemptions From Provisions
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1B of this Code for license fee
4-4-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the word “photographer” means any person operating or
maintaining a photographic studio, a finishing or developing plant for
photographs exposed by persons owning or employed by the portrait photograph
business of taking photographs for any commercial purpose whatsoever, or
itinerant or transient photographs.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of a photographer without first
having obtained a license therefor.
   B.   An application for a license under this chapter shall be made in
conformity with the general requirements of this title relating to applications
for licenses.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-4-3: SANITARY AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every building, place or establishment in which the business of a
photographer is carried on shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   B.   All necessary measures shall be taken to safeguard properly the lives
and health of all persons employed in such establishments.
   C.   All necessary appliances and devices shall be installed to prevent the
emission of noxious fumes, odors, or dust, and provisions shall be made to
prevent the occlusion or obstruction of the drains or sewers through which the
sewage or wastes of such establishments are discharged.
   D.    Adequate and convenient washing and toilet facilities shall be
provided for employees and such establishments.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-4-4: COMPLIANCE WITH FIRE REGULATIONS; INSPECTIONS:
Every person conducting the business of a photographer shall comply with the
fire regulations of this Code. The Department of Public Safety shall
periodically inspect each such place of business to determine whether there is
compliance with such regulations.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-4-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to photographing for or
developing motion picture films.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE A: COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHERS IN CERTAIN PARKS
Section
4-4A-1:   Definition
4-4A-2:   Permit Required; Exemptions
4-4A-3:   Contents Of Permit
4-4A-4:   Permit Fee; Exemptions
4-4A-5:   Number Of Permits
4-4A-6:   Term Of Permit
4-4A-7:   Nontransferability Of Permit
4-4A-8:   Administration Of Provisions
4-4A-9:   Penalties
4-4A-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this article, the term “commercial photography” means the taking of
photographs, making of videotapes or other forms of visual recordings by a
photographer who charges a fee for his services, i.e, a “commercial
photographer”.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
4-4A-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of commercial photography in
Monument Park and/or Dunne Park or otherwise take a photograph or shoot a
videotape or film for any kind of remuneration without first having obtained a
Monument Park/Dunne Park photography permit (a “commercial photography
permit”); provided, however, where the person who hires and pays the
photographer’s fee or other remuneration is a resident of the Village, the
photographer shall not be required to obtain a commercial photography permit in
order to engage in commercial photography in said parks on a weekday unless the
weekday is also a holiday on which the offices of the Village are closed.
   B.   A single commercial photography permit may be issued to allow the
taking of photographs and the shooting of videotapes and film at both Monument
Park and Dunne Park.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
4-4A-3: CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
The permit shall specify the date and time period, when the permit holder may
take photographs or shoot videotapes and film at Monument Park and Dunne Park.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
4-4A-4: PERMIT FEE; EXEMPTIONS:
The fee for each commercial photography permit shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each photography session, i.e., “photo shoot”; provided, that no fee shall
be charged for a commercial photography permit where the person who hires the
commercial photographer and pays the photographer’s fee or other remuneration
is a resident of the Village and provides proof of Village residency at the
time application for the permit is made.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
4-4A-5: NUMBER OF PERMITS:
No more than two (2) commercial photography permits shall be issued to the same
commercial photographer on a single day.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
4-4A-6: TERM OF PERMIT:
A commercial photography permit shall only be valid for the date and time
period specified on the permit.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
4-4A-7: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT:
A commercial photography permit shall allow only the person or company who is
named on the permit to take photographs or shoot videotapes or film in Monument
Park and/or Dunne Park at the time specified on the permit. A commercial
photography permit may not be transferred or assigned.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
4-4A-8: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The Rosemont Park District shall be and hereby is authorized to issue the
commercial photography permits and collect the permit fee provided in this
article and otherwise administer the implementation of the provisions of this
article; provided, that the issuance of the permits, the collection of permit
fees and the administration of this article by the Rosemont Park District is
done in accordance with an intergovernmental agreement between the Rosemont
Park District and the Village of Rosemont.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
4-4A-9: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of this article or who shall
refuse, neglect or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this article
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) and not more than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for
each photography session that is conducted in violation of this article. In
addition, the Village shall have the right to refuse to issue a permit for a
period of ninety (90) days to any person who violates any provisions of this
article.
(Ord. 95-2-1K, 2-1-1995)
CHAPTER 5: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL REGULATIONS
Section
4-5-1:   Definitions
4-5-2:   License Required; Exceptions
4-5-3:   Applications For Initial And Renewal Licenses
4-5-4:   Inspections
4-5-5:   License And Inspection Fees
4-5-6:   Issuance Or Denial Of Licenses
4-5-7:   Term Of License; Proration Of Fee
4-5-8:   Nontransferability Of License
4-5-9:   Violations
4-5-10:   Revocation Of License; Hearing
4-5-11:   List Of Rental Units In Condominium And Homeowners Associations
4-5-12:   Crime Free Multi Housing Program Seminar
4-5-13:   Crime Free Lease Provisions Required
4-5-14:   Nuisance Properties
4-5-15:   Penalty
4-5-16:   Prosecution Of Violations; Injunctions
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
APPLICABLE ORDINANCES: Refers to all applicable Village of Rosemont ordinances
and codes including, but not limited to, the Village Zoning Ordinance, Building
Code, Property Maintenance Code, and Health and Safety Codes.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms containing cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities which is designed, occupied or intended for use by an individual or
one family or household; a house designed for occupancy is a dwelling unit.
Each apartment in a building which contains one or more apartments is a
separate dwelling unit.
LICENSEE: A person to whom a residential rental license has been issued.
OWNER: The following:
   A.   Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others has legal title
to any land or premises on which a rental dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house or rooming unit is located; or
   B.   Any person who acts as a manager or oversees the maintenance, operation
or rental of a rental dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit
for a legal title holder of the land or premises on which the rental dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit is located; or
   C.   Any person authorized to act as the agent of a legal title holder of
the land or premises on which the rental dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house
or rooming unit is located in connection with management or rental of the
rental dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit; or
   D.   Any person who is an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of
the estate of a legal title holder of the land or premises on which the rental
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit is located; or
   E.   Any person who is a mortgagee in possession, or has been appointed to
serve as the trustee, of the land or premises on which the rental dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit is located.
PERSON: A natural person, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust, unincorporated association and any other entity which
has the authority to enter into a contract under the laws of the State of
Illinois.
RENTAL DWELLING: Except as provided in this definition, a building in which
there is a single dwelling unit, where a rent in the form of a monetary payment
or the provision of services is received from or on behalf of one or more
occupants of the dwelling in return for the right to occupy the dwelling. A
dwelling occupied by an owner is not a rental dwelling for purposes of this
chapter. A rectory, parsonage or similar religious facility where living
quarters are provided for persons who perform religious services or provide
religious counseling and/or for persons who provide janitorial or maintenance
services in consideration for providing such services or counseling is not a
rental dwelling for purposes of this chapter. A dwelling owned by the Village
of Rosemont or another unit of local government or by the State of Illinois or
the United States of America is not a rental dwelling for purposes of this
chapter.
RENTAL DWELLING UNIT: A dwelling unit in a building which contains more than
one dwelling unit, other than a unit in which an owner resides, where a rent in
the form of a monetary payment or the provision of services is received from or
on behalf of one or more occupants of the dwelling unit in return for the right
to occupy or use such unit. A dwelling unit located in a building owned by the
Village of Rosemont or another unit of local government or by the State of
Illinois or the United States of America is not a rental dwelling unit for
purposes of this chapter.
ROOMING HOUSE: Except as provided in this definition, a building containing
more than one bedroom where rent in the form of a monetary payment or the
provision of services is received from or on behalf of one or more occupants of
the building in return for the right to occupy or use one or more of the
bedrooms in the building for sleeping purposes where such occupant or occupants
are required to share dining, cooking or bathroom facilities with persons who
occupy different rooms in the same building for sleeping purposes. A building
which is licensed by the Village as a hotel or motel is not a rooming house for
purposes of this chapter. A group home, daycare facility or medical care
facility which is licensed by the State of Illinois or has been issued a permit
by the State of Illinois is not a rooming house for purposes of this chapter.
ROOMING UNIT: Except as provided in this definition, any room or group of rooms
located in a building which form a single habitable unit used or intended to be
used for sleeping, but not for dining and/or cooking purposes, where rent in
the form of a monetary payment or the provision of services is received from or
on behalf of one or more occupants of the room or group of rooms in return for
the right to occupy or use the room or group of rooms for sleeping purposes. A
room located in a building which is licensed by the Village as a hotel or motel
is not a rooming unit for purposes of this chapter. A room located in a group
home, daycare facility or medical care facility which is licensed by the State
of Illinois or for which a permit has been issued to the owner by the State of
Illinois is not a rooming unit for purposes of this chapter. A room or group of
rooms in a rectory, parsonage or similar religious facility where living
quarters are provided for persons who perform religious services or provide
religious counseling or to persons who provide janitorial and maintenance
services in consideration for providing such services or counseling is not a
rental unit for purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   License Required: Except as provided in subsection B of this section,
no person shall lease or otherwise rent or offer to lease or otherwise rent
either: 1) a rental dwelling; 2) a rental dwelling unit; 3) a room in a rooming
house; or 4) a rooming unit, unless such person has been issued a valid
residential rental license by the Department of Public Safety for the rental
dwelling, rental dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit which is being
leased or rented or offered for lease or rental.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The license requirements contained in subsection A of this section
shall not apply where the owner is a natural person and a rental dwelling, a
rental dwelling unit, a rooming house or rooming unit is being leased or
otherwise rented to a parent, grandparent, child, stepchild, aunt, uncle,
niece, first cousin, nephew, parent-in-law, or grandchild of the owner.
      2.   The license requirements contained in subsection A of this section
shall not apply where the owner is a natural person and the. rental dwelling or
rental dwelling unit; 1) has been occupied by the owner within the past twelve
(12) month period; and 2) is being offered for sale or has been sold, pending
closing; provided, that such rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit shall not
be rented by the same owner for a continuous period of time that exceeds six
(6) months.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-3: APPLICATIONS FOR INITIAL AND RENEWAL LICENSES:
   A.   The owner of a rental dwelling, a rental dwelling unit, a room in a
rooming house or a rooming unit which is required to be licensed under this
chapter shall apply for the initial residential rental license and any
subsequent renewal of the residential rental license on a form provided by the
Department of Public Safety. The Department shall develop such forms and make
them available to the public.
   B.   The application for a residential rental license shall require the
applicant to disclose the names and addresses of all persons who are considered
to be owners under section 4-5-1 of this chapter, definition of “owner”, of the
premises for which the license is being applied.
   C.   If the owner does not reside or have an office in either Cook, Lake or
DuPage County, Illinois, the owner, on its application for a residential rental
license, shall designate an agent who resides or has an office in Cook County,
Illinois and who is authorized to receive service of any notices of violations
of the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   The owner, as part of its application for an initial residential rental
license, shall include an authorization which provides the Village with the
authority to enter onto the premises and inspect each rental dwelling, rental
dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit which is to be covered by the
license for which the application is being submitted on any nonholiday weekday
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. The
purpose of the inspection shall be to determine whether the premises is in
compliance with all applicable ordinances and any other applicable laws, rules
or regulations.
   E.   Applications for the renewal of a residential rental license must be
submitted no later than March 1 to renew a license that expires on the
following April 30.
   F.   The application for an initial or renewal residential rental license
must include the applicable license, fee. If the license is denied, the license
fee shall be returned to the applicant, unless a temporary license was issued
as provided in subsection 4-5-4A of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The Department of Public Safety, or its duly authorized agent, shall
conduct an inspection to determine whether the rental dwelling, rental dwelling
unit, rooming house or rooming unit for which an initial residential rental
license is sought is in compliance with all applicable ordinances and any other
applicable laws, rules or regulations, before issuing an initial residential
rental license; a temporary license for not more than ninety (90) days, may be
issued pending the completion of an inspection. In the event the first
inspection indicates that there are conditions on the premises of the rental
dwelling, rental dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit which violate
this chapter or any other applicable ordinance, law, rule or regulation, the
Department, or its designee, shall notify the applicant as to the steps which
must be taken in order to bring the premises into compliance with all
applicable ordinances and any other applicable laws, rules or regulations and
shall schedule a followup inspection to determine whether sufficient corrective
action has been taken to bring the premises into compliance with all applicable
ordinances and any other applicable laws, rules or regulations. Additional
followup inspections may be scheduled; provided, that if there are more than
two (2) followup inspections after the first inspection, the applicant shall be
assessed a noncompliance inspection service charge as established in subsection
4-5-5B of this chapter. A residential rental license shall not be issued for
any premises until all violations on the premises have been corrected; except,
that any temporary residential rental license may remain in effect until it is
due to expire.
   B.   The Department of Public Safety, or its duly authorized agent, is
hereby authorized and directed to inspect the premises of any rental dwelling,
rental dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit in response to a complaint
that there is a violation of this chapter or any other applicable ordinance,
law, rule or regulation. The Department has the authority to make periodic
inspections of any premises for which a residential rental license has been
issued for the purpose of determining whether the premises is in violation of
this chapter or any other applicable ordinance, law, rule or regulation. If the
owner or occupant of the premises to be inspected does not consent to the
inspection, the Department or its duly authorized agent, is authorized to apply
to the Circuit Court of Cook County for a warrant that will permit the
Department or its duly authorized agent, to enter onto the premises for the
purpose of making the inspection. In the event the inspection indicates that
there are conditions on the premises of the rental dwelling, rental dwelling
unit, rooming house or rooming unit which violate this chapter or any other
applicable ordinance, law, rule or regulation, the Department or its designee,
shall take action as provided in subsection 4-5-9A of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-5: LICENSE AND INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   The annual fee for a residential rental license which includes an
annual inspection are as provided in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1E of this Code.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The noncompliance inspection service charge shall be equal to fifty
percent (50%) of the applicable annual license fee.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-6: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL LICENSES:
   A.   The Department of Public Safety is authorized, upon application, to
issue initial residential rental licenses and to thereafter renew residential
rental licenses to the owners of rental dwellings, rental dwelling units,
rooming houses or rooming units; provided, that there is compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   No initial residential rental license shall be issued to an owner
unless the owner attends and successfully completes the Crime Free Multi
Housing Program seminar, administered by the Department of Public Safety, prior
to issuance of the license as provided in section
4-5-12 of this chapter. If the owner is not a natural person, then the Crime
Free Multi Housing Program seminar shall be attended by a corporate or
association officer if the owner is a corporation or unincorporated
association, an officer of a member of the joint venture, if the owner is a
joint venture, a partner if the owner is a partnership, or the manager if the
owner is a limited liability company or such other person who is approved in
writing prior to attendance at the Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar by
the Department.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-7: TERM OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEE:
A residential rental license shall be valid from its date of issuance until the
next April 30, unless the residential rental license is issued as a temporary
license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; provided, that if an
application for an initial residential rental license is submitted after
October 31, the license fee shall be one-half (1/2) the annual fee set forth in
the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1E of this Code.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007; amd. 2019 Code)
4-5-8: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A residential rental license is not transferable either as to location or as to
licensee. Each time there is any change in the ownership of a rental dwelling,
a rental dwelling unit, a rooming house or a rooming unit that is required to
be licensed under this chapter, the new owner must obtain a new residential
rental license. Every person holding a residential rental license shall give
notice in writing to the Department of Public Safety no later than the second
business day after conveying or otherwise transferring or relinquishing his
ownership interest in a rental dwelling, a rental dwelling unit, a room in a
rooming house or a rooming unit. Such notice shall include the name and address
of the new owner(s) of the rental dwelling, rental dwelling unit, rooming house
or rooming unit formerly owned by the person giving the notice.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-9: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   If the Department of Public Safety determines that a rental dwelling, a
rental dwelling unit, a rooming house or a rooming unit fails to meet the
requirements set forth in this chapter or otherwise is in violation of this
chapter or any applicable ordinance, law, rule or regulation, the Department
may either: 1) revoke any residential rental license covering the rental
dwelling, rental dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit as provided in
section
4-5-10 of this chapter; 2) initiate the prosecution or request the initiation
of the prosecution of the violation pursuant to section
4-5-16 of this chapter; or 3) issue a notice to the licensee describing the
violation and advising the licensee that the violation must be corrected. The
notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing.
      2.   Set forth the violation(s).
      3.   Describe the common area, dwelling, dwelling unit, area in a rooming
house, or rooming unit where the violations are alleged to exist or to have
been committed.
      4.   Specify a specific date for the correction of the violation(s) .
      5.   State that unless the violation(s) cited is corrected within the
time specified for correction of the alleged violation(s), the residential
rental license may be revoked and/or prosecution initiated for the purpose of
the imposition of a fine and/or obtaining injunctive relief.
      6.   Be served personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested,
upon the licensee if a residential rental license has been issued for the
premises on which the violation is located or occurred and, if no residential
rental license has been issued for the premises, then on an owner of the
premises.
   B.   If the violation is not corrected by the date specified in the notice
sent pursuant to subsection A of this section, then the Department of Public
Safety shall revoke the residential rental license for the premises as provided
in section
4-5-10 of this chapter or shall initiate enforcement proceedings to prosecute
the violation as provided in section
4-5-16 of this chapter; provided, that if the Department finds that the reason
the violation has not been corrected by the date specified in the notice is due
to circumstances beyond the control of the licensee, and that reasonable
progress has been made towards correcting the violation, the Department may
instead extend the date by which the violation must be corrected from the date
initially specified in the notice.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
   A.   The Department may revoke a residential rental license if the licensee
or the premises, or any part thereof, covered by the residential rental license
violates this chapter or any other applicable ordinance, law, rule or
regulation and has not been corrected as provided in section
4-5-9 of this chapter or the premises or any part thereof covered by the
residential rental license is in violation of section
4-5-14 of this chapter. In the event the Department determines that revocation
of a residential rental license is appropriate, he shall send a notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the licensee at the address
specified on the last residential rental license application filed by the
licensee unless the licensee has notified the Department in writing that
notices relating to the premises covered by the residential rental license are
to be sent to another address. The notice shall state the reason the
residential rental license is to be revoked and shall state that the revocation
shall become effective fifteen (15) days after the date the notice was mailed,
unless the licensee files a notice with the Department within the fifteen (15)
day period which requests that the Village President appoint a hearing officer
to hear evidence and make a report and recommendation to the Village President
as to whether the license should be revoked.
   B.   If a licensee timely files a notice with the Department of Public
Safety requesting that the Village President appoint a hearing officer to hear
evidence and to make a report and recommendation to the Village President as to
whether the residential rental license should be revoked, the revocation shall
not become effective until such time as the Village President issues a written
decision revoking the license.
   C.   If a licensee files a notice with the Department of Public Safety
requesting that the Village President appoint a hearing officer to hear
evidence and to make a report and recommendation to the Village President as to
whether the residential rental license should be revoked, the Village President
shall appoint a hearing officer. The hearing officer may be an employee of the
Village, but shall not be employed in the Department. The hearing officer shall
schedule a hearing at which the licensee and the Department shall be entitled
to present evidence as to whether the residential rental license should be
revoked. The hearing officer shall cause written notice of the hearing to be
given to the licensee and to the Department not less than seven (7) calendar
days prior to the date which the hearing is scheduled to begin. The licensee
and the Department shall each be entitled to be represented by an attorney at
the hearing. The rules of evidence applicable in courts of law shall not apply
to the hearing, but shall be probative as well as relevant, material and
germane.
   D.   Following the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall
submit a report to the Village President summarizing the evidence presented at
the hearing, making any determinations that may be required as to the
credibility of witnesses and making a recommendation as to whether the
residential rental license should be revoked.
   E.   The Village President shall, after the report is submitted by the
hearing officer, issue a written decision affirming or reversing the decision
of the Department of Public Safety to revoke the residential rental license.
   F.   A new application for an initial residential rental license for any
premises for which a prior residential rental license has been revoked may be
submitted, but no sooner than six (6) months after the effective date of the
revocation of the prior residential rental license. No residential rental
license shall be issued for any premises for which a prior residential rental
license was revoked unless the Department of Public Safety determines that all
of the conditions that led to the revocation of the prior residential rental
license have been corrected, and that there is a reasonable likelihood that
such conditions will not recur should a new residential rental license be
issued for the premises.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-11: LIST OF RENTAL UNITS IN CONDOMINIUM AND HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS:
During the month of February of each year, each condominium association and
each homeowners’ association which includes dwelling units located in the
Village shall provide the Department of Public Safety with a written list
identifying all dwelling units under the jurisdiction of the condominium
association or homeowners’ association which are being leased or otherwise
rented out by the owner of the dwelling unit. The list shall contain the name
and address of the owner of each dwelling unit under the jurisdiction of the
condominium association or homeowners’ association which is being leased.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-12: CRIME FREE MULTI HOUSING PROGRAM SEMINAR:
   A.   All applicants for an initial residential rental license shall attend
and satisfactorily complete a Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar
prior to being issued a residential rental license.
   B.   In the event an initial residential rental license cannot be issued
because there has not been a Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar
held during the time the application for the initial residential rental license
was being processed, a temporary initial residential rental license may be
issued or the duration of an existing temporary license extended to give the
applicant the opportunity to attend a Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program
seminar. If a temporary license is issued and the applicant attends and
satisfactorily completes the Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar
prior to the expiration of the temporary license, and all other requirements
for an initial residential rental license are met, then an initial residential
rental license shall be issued.
   C.   Each person who acts as the manager or rental agent for any premises
for which a residential rental license has been issued shall attend and
satisfactorily complete a Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar
within three (3) months after first becoming a manager or rental agent or
within six (6) months of the effective date hereof, whichever is the last to
occur. Each president (or equivalent officer) of a condominium association or
homeowners’ association which has jurisdiction over dwelling units shall attend
and satisfactorily complete a Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar
within three (3) months after first becoming the president (or equivalent
officer) of the condominium association or homeowners’ association or within
six (6) months of the effective date hereof, whichever is the last to occur.
   D.   A licensee shall be required to attend and satisfactorily complete a
Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar at least once every three (3)
years.
   E.   1.   A licensee may be required to reattend the Village Crime Free
Multi Housing Program seminar at any time if the Program’s Coordinator
recommends reattendance to the Department of Public Safety concurs in said
recommendation. The Department, in determining whether or not to have the
licensee reattend the Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar shall consider
the following factors:
         a.   Whether the property rented by the licensee is in danger of
becoming a nuisance residential rental property as defined in section
4-5-14 of this chapter; or
         b.   Whether criminal activity has been occurring on the premises for
which a residential rental license has been issued and the licensee has failed
to initiate eviction proceedings.
      2.   The failure of a licensee to attend and satisfactorily complete a
Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminar when directed to do so by the
Department of Public Safety as provided in this subsection shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   F.   The Chief of Public Safety shall designate a Village public safety
officer to serve as the Crime Free Multi Housing Coordinator. The Crime Free
Multi Housing Coordinator shall be responsible for scheduling and conducting
the Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program seminars. The Crime Free Multi
Housing Coordinator shall provide the Department of Public Safety with a list
of those persons who have attended the Village Crime Free Multi Housing Program
seminar, along with the date of attendance and verification that the licensee
has complied with this chapter and is eligible to obtain an initial residential
rental license, or renew a residential rental license.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-13: CRIME FREE LEASE PROVISIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   The leases for all premises covered by a residential rental license
shall be in writing and shall contain a crime free lease addendum or have a
clause in the lease similar to a crime free lease addendum. The Crime Free
Multi Housing Coordinator shall provide, at no cost, samples of the crime free
lease addendum and shall review any clauses within actual leases with the
Village Attorney to determine if. the clause is similar to the crime free lease
addendum.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, a crime free lease addendum is a
provision which makes it a violation of the lease for a lessee, an occupant of
the premises, a guest of the lessee or an occupant of the premises or any other
party on the premises with the permission or consent under the control of the
lessee or an occupant of the premises to engage in, facilitate or conspire to
commit criminal activity while on the leased premises. A crime free lease
addendum shall provide the lessor with the authority to evict the lessee in
accordance with the Illinois forcible entry and detainer statute (735 ILCS 5/9-
101 et seq.), if it is established by a preponderance of the evidence that a
violation of the crime free lease addendum has occurred.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-14: NUISANCE PROPERTIES:
It is hereby declared a public nuisance and a danger to the public safety,
health, welfare and morals of the Village and its residents for any person to
permit or allow any of the following:
   A.   The rental of a rental dwelling, a rental dwelling unit, a room in a
rooming house or a rooming unit to a tenant who allows any of the following
offenses to occur on the premises being rented or leased by the tenant: murder,
kidnaping, aggravated kidnaping, prostitution, solicitation of prostitution,
pandering, obscenity, child pornography, harmful materials, sale of obscene
publication, criminal housing management, possession of explosives, unlawful
use of weapons, sale of firearms, gambling, keeping a gambling place,
concealing a fugitive, violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act (720
ILCS 570/100 et seq.); violation of the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et
seq.); or commission of any two (2) or more offenses punishable by imprisonment
for a period of more than six (6) months under the laws of the State of
Illinois or the United States.
   B.   Rental of a residential unit, rental dwelling, a rental dwelling unit,
a room in a rooming house or a rooming unit to a tenant who allows any of the
following offenses to occur on the premises being rented by the tenant:
commission of four (4) or more Village ordinance violations in a six (6) month
period or an unreasonably high number of calls for public safety service
including, but not limited to, calls that may fall within the descriptions
listed in subsection A of this section that, when compared to other properties
in the Village of similar type, reasonably indicate that activity on the rented
premises is adversely affecting the health, safety, welfare or morals of other
persons residing in the area.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-15: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day on which a violation of this chapter
occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
4-5-16: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIONS:
Violations of this chapter are subject to prosecution under the Village
administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to
title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code, as now or hereafter amended. The
provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this chapter
including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, or before another administrative tribunal which has
jurisdiction to consider the violation. In the event that a person commits
repeated violations of this chapter, the Village may institute an action to
enjoin such person from committing further violations of this chapter. In the
event such action is instituted and an injunction is issued, the person whose
conduct is enjoined shall be required to compensate the Village for the
attorney fees and other costs incurred in obtaining the injunction.
(Ord. 2007-3-6H, 3-6-2007)
CHAPTER 6: TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ACCESSORIES DEALERS; VENDING MACHINES
Section
4-6-1:   Definitions
4-6-2:   Licenses Required; Exceptions
4-6-3:   Applications For Licenses; Approval Or Denial
4-6-4:   License Fees
4-6-5:   Sanitary And Health Requirements
4-6-6:   Responsibility For Violations
4-6-7:   Administrative Official; Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Fine In
Lieu
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
definitions ascribed to them in this section:
TOBACCO ACCESSORIES: Cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of
all types, cigarette rolling machines, and other items designed primarily for
the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products.
(Ord. 2008-7-2H, 7-2-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-6-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, deliver, or
to keep with the intention of selling at retail or delivering, tobacco products
or tobacco accessories within the Village without having first obtained a
tobacco dealer’s retail sale of tobacco license. Such license shall be in
addition to any other license required by this Code.
   B.   In addition, it shall be unlawful to permit smoking at an establishment
which also sells tobacco products, tobacco related products, or tobacco
accessories without having first obtained a tobacco dealer’s retail sale of
tobacco and smoking license. Such license shall be in addition to any other
license required by this Code.
   C.   A tobacco dealer’s retail sale of tobacco license shall not be required
if one makes no over the counter sales of cigarettes, cigars, or tobacco in any
form, but merely permits the sale of cigarettes from a vending machine located
on his premises which is properly licensed and for which license stickers have
been purchased as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-7-2H, 7-2-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-6-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
   A.   Tobacco Dealers:
      1.   Application for a tobacco dealer’s retail tobacco license and a
tobacco dealer’s retail sale of tobacco and smoking license shall be made in
conformity with the general requirements of this title relating to the
applications for licenses.
      2.   The original application shall be referred to the Department of
Public Safety for investigation and verification of the facts stated therein
and the business methods of the applicant. Unless the department shall find
that the applicant has been convicted of a felony or criminal offense related
to the sale or distribution of tobacco or alcohol to minors; or the sale of
controlled substances; or that the applicant has violated any law or ordinance
imposing any cigarette excise tax; or that the applicant has employed coercive
or illegal measures to promote the sale of any brands of cigarettes; or that
the applicant is not qualified under the provisions of this chapter, the
Department of Public Safety shall return the application to the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department with approval, otherwise the department shall
return the application with a statement of the reasons for refusing approval
thereof. If the applicant is a firm, corporation, partnership, or association,
the application shall not be approved if the department shall find that any
member, officer, director or manager of the firm, corporation, partnership or
association, or any stockholder owning more that five percent (5%) of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible for a certificate of registration if
he were the sole owner.
   B.   Vending Machines:
      1.   Application for a license for each vending machine shall be filed
with the Director of the Health and Licensing Department by the owner of the
vending machine, stating his name and address, the name of the make of such
machine and factory number thereof, the name of the person to be in control of
the vending machine, and the street address of the premises in which the
vending machine is to be used.
      2.   The original application shall be referred to the Department of
Public Safety for investigation and verification of the facts stated therein
and the business methods of the owner. Unless the department shall find that
the owner has been convicted of a felony or criminal offense related to the
sale or distribution of tobacco or alcohol to minors; or the sale of controlled
substances; or that he has violated any law or ordinance imposing any cigarette
excise tax; or that the place where said vending machine is to be used or the
person in control thereof has employed coercive or illegal measures to promote
the use of the vending machine; or to promote the sale of any brands of
cigarettes; or that the place where the vending machine is to be used or the
person in control thereof is not qualified under the provisions of this
chapter, the Department of Public Safety shall return the application to the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department with approval; otherwise, the
department shall return the application with a statement of the reasons for
refusing approval of the application. If the owner is a firm, corporation,
partnership, or association, the application shall not be approved if the
department shall find that any member, officer, director or manager of such
firm, corporation, partnership or association, or any stockholder owning more
that five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible
for a certificate of registration if he were the sole owner.
      3.   Upon approval of the application by the Department of Public Safety
and payment of the annual fee to the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department, as provided in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1B of this
Code, the Director shall issue a license sticker. The license sticker shall be
affixed to the vending machine so as to be clearly visible when in use.
(Ord. 2008-7-2H, 7-2-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-6-4: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee for a tobacco dealer’s retail tobacco license, tobacco dealer’s
retail sale of tobacco and smoking license, and cigarette vending machine
license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1B
of this Code.
(Ord. 2008-7-2H, 7-2-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-6-5: SANITARY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of all persons licensed hereunder, upon the demand
of the Director of the Health and Licensing Department to furnish for
inspection samples of all cigarettes, cigars or tobacco in any form sold or
offered for sale by them, and it shall be the duty of such persons to keep
their premises and buildings in a clean and sanitary condition.
   B.   No person shall expose for sale, sell or offer for sale to any person,
directly or indirectly, within the Village any cigarettes, cigars or tobacco
containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna, strychnia, cocaine or any
poisonous substance or controlled substance.
   C.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall inspect and
examine, or cause to be inspected and examined, as often as is deemed
necessary, all places where cigarettes, cigars, or tobacco in any form are
licensed to be sold at retail within the Village, and all such cigarettes,
cigars or tobacco in any form, to determine whether there is compliance with
all applicable laws of the State and provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 2008-7-2H, 7-2-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-6-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by an officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee. The licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or
omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Ord. 2008-7-2H, 7-2-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-6-7: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FEE IN
LIEU:
   A.   The Village President shall be charged with the administration of this
chapter. He may suspend or revoke any license issued under the provisions of
this chapter if he determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of this, chapter. In lieu of suspension or revocation of a license,
the Village President may instead levy a fine on the licensee. The fine imposed
shall not be less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day on which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   B.   No such license shall be suspended or revoked and no licensee shall be
fined except after seven (7) days’ written notice to the licensee affording the
licensee a public hearing before the Village President and giving the licensee
an opportunity to appear and defend against the charges contained in such
notice. The seven (7) day notice provision shall begin the day following
delivery by certified mail or by personal service.
   C.   The Village President shall, within seven (7) days after the hearing
and the imposition of a suspension, revocation, or fine, state in a written
order the reason for such determination. The written order shall also state: 1)
the duration of any suspension; 2) whether the license has been revoked; or 3)
the amount of any fine. A copy of the written order shall be served upon the
licensee within the same period.
   D.   Any licensee determined by the Village President to nave violated any
of the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the Village the costs of the
hearing before the Village President for such violation. The Village President
shall determine the costs incurred by the Village for the hearing including,
but not limited to: court reporter’s fees, the costs of transcripts of records,
attorney fees, the cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders and all
other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the Village or such lesser sum as the
Village President may allow.
   E.   The licensee shall pay the costs to the Village within thirty (30) days
of notification of the costs by the Village President. Failure to pay the costs
within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this chapter and may
be cause for license suspension or revocation, or the imposition of a fine.
   F.   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license
shall be granted to said licensee for a period of six (6) months thereafter to
conduct the business of selling “tobacco products” or “tobacco accessories”, as
defined in this chapter, within the premises described in the revoked license.
(Ord. 2008-7-2H, 7-2-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
CHAPTER 7: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
ARTICLE A: AMUSEMENTS AND AMUSEMENT DEVICES GENERALLY
Section
4-7A-1:   Definitions
4-7A-2:   Licenses Required
4-7A-3:   Application For License
4-7A-4:   Location Restrictions
4-7A-5:   Regulations
4-7A-6:   Amusement Machines
4-7A-7:   Insurances Required; Bond In Lieu
Cross-reference:
   See
title 3, chapter 8  of this Code for amusement tax
4-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words, for the purposes of
this article, shall have the meanings indicated in this section:
AMUSEMENT: 
   A.   Any amusement park, arcade, golf driving range, golf course, miniature
or otherwise, public skating rink (ice or roller), “go-kart” tracks, public
dance hall, pool or billiards hall, bowling alley or shooting gallery;
   B.   Any theater, indoor or outdoor, displaying film, television or live
dramatic performances; and
   C.   Any concert, athletic contest or exhibition, public picnic, circus,
carnival, or flower, animal or dog show.
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT MACHINE: Any mechanical amusement machine or device, the
operation of which is governed or controlled by the deposit of a coin or token
including, without being limited thereto, any such coin-controlled instrument
or device capable of producing any vocal or instrumental sounds.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-7A-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall own, promote, operate, conduct, control, manage,
produce, present, sponsor or permit, for gain or profit, any amusement without
first having obtained a license as hereinafter provided.
   B.   No person shall install, keep, maintain or use, or permit the
installation, keeping, maintenance or use, upon his premises of any automatic
amusement machine for which a license has not been issued.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-7A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a license shall be made in conformity with the
general requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses.
   B.   The application shall be signed by the owner or lessee of the property
in his own proper person or in his name by his duly authorized agent.
   C.   The application shall set forth a description of the property used or
intended for use as a public place of amusement, indicating the seating
capacity and the floor area or ground area of the place, and such other
information as the Director of the Health and Licensing Department may require.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-7A-4: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for any place within two hundred feet (200') of any
church, hospital, or building used exclusively for educational purposes, unless
the place to be licensed has been established as a public place of amusement
before the establishment of the church, hospital or educational institution.
The distance shall be measured from the nearest point of the premises for which
application for license has been made and the nearest point of the church,
hospital, or educational institution.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-7A-5: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Admission Price On Face Of Ticket: It is unlawful for any licensee to
sell or permit any person to sell any ticket of admission to the licensed
premises unless it has conspicuously printed upon its face the price of
admission.
   B.   False Advertising Prohibited: No licensee shall place, maintain, or
allow to be placed or maintained, in front of or in connection with any such
place any sign, picture, or other announcement which in any manner misstates or
misrepresents the picture or other amusements which are being shown in said
place, or which announces a picture or other form of amusement or entertainment
which is not, at the time such announcement is displayed, being shown and
exhibited in said place.
   C.   Billiard Or Pool Rooms:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person who has not reached the age of
eighteen (18) years, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian, to play
billiards or to be permitted to remain in a billiard room for any purpose, or
to play any coin-operated pool table; and it is unlawful for any person to
represent himself to have reached the age of eighteen (18) years in order to
obtain admission to such billiard room or to be permitted to remain therein, or
to play any coin-operated pool table, when such person is, in fact, under
eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   No person conducting or operating a billiard or pool room shall
allow or permit any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions
to be placed between the front windows and back or rear wall of such room. An
unobstructed view of the entire interior must be maintained at all times.
   D.   Ventilation In Dancing Establishments: In all rooms or halls in which
dancing is permitted, ventilation shall be provided as required in this Code.
   E.   Raffles, Lotteries, Gifts And Gambling Prohibited: It is unlawful for
any licensee to conduct, or permit any person to conduct, any raffle, lottery
or chance distribution of money, or article of value, or any gift enterprise,
or any form of gambling upon the licensed premises.
   F.   Supplying Water Required: The licensee of every public place of
amusement shall provide sufficient drinking water at each fountain required to
be installed by this Code.
   G.   Lighting: Every licensee under this article shall provide adequate
lighting within the establishment and in all areas adjacent thereto with
respect to usual and customary safety.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-7A-6: AMUSEMENT MACHINES:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate or maintain in the Village
any amusement machine without having obtained a license for each of such
amusement machines as provided in this article.
   B.   Application For License: Any person desiring to operate or maintain an
amusement machine within the Village shall make application for a license for
that purpose to the Director of the Health and Licensing Department, in which
application shall be set forth the full name of the applicant and the number of
machines for which the applicant desires licenses.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
   C.   Qualifications Of Licensee; Issuance Of License: The application shall
be accompanied by evidence that the applicant, if an individual, or the person
or persons in charge of the business, if a firm or corporation, is or are
responsible persons of good character and reputation having a residence or
business address in the Village, and if the Village President shall be
satisfied that such persons are of good character and reputation, he shall
cause a license or licenses to be issued upon the payment of the license fee as
set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1F of this Code, entry
reading “amusement device”.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
4-7A-7: INSURANCES REQUIRED; BOND IN LIEU:
   A.   Every applicant for a license under this article shall carry public
liability and property damage insurance and workers’ compensation insurance for
employees with responsible insurers authorized to transact insurance business
in the State of Illinois, to secure payment of any loss or damage resulting
from an occurrence arising out of or caused by the operation of the business
licensed herein.
   B.   The insurance shall provide for the payment and satisfaction of any
final judgment rendered against the owner or operator of a licensed business,
and that suit may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction upon such
policy by any person having claims arising from the operation of such business.
   C.   In lieu of any insurance policy or contract as cited in this section, a
surety bond or bonds of the corporate surety or sureties authorized to do
business under the laws of Illinois may be accepted for all or any part of such
insurance; provided, that each bond shall be conditioned for the payment and
satisfaction of any final judgment in conformity with the provisions set forth
in this section.
(Ord. 76-11-3A, 11-3-1976)
ARTICLE B: VIDEO GAMING
Section
4-7B-1:   Definitions
4-7B-2:   License Required; Prohibited Licensees
4-7B-3:   Video Gaming Establishment License Application
4-7B-4:   Video Gaming Establishment Licensing Requirements
4-7B-5:   Operational Duties; Video Gaming Establishment Licensees
4-7B-6:   Terminal Operator’s License Application
4-7B-7:   Terminal Operator Licensing Requirements
4-7B-8:   Operational Duties; Terminal Operator Licensees
4-7B-9:   Duration Of Licenses; Renewal
4-7B-10:   Video Gaming Terminal Tax
4-7B-11:   Loss Of Licenses
4-7B-12:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
4-7B-13:   Examination Of Applicants And Licensees
4-7B-14:   Monetary Violations; Fines
4-7B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT: The property located within the plat of the Rosemont
Entertainment District Subdivision recorded on May 2, 2007 as document no.
0712215139 in the office of the Cook County Recorder of Deeds.
LARGE TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT: The same definition as set forth in the Video
Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
TERMINAL OPERATOR: An individual, partnership, corporation, or limited
liability company that has been issued a Terminal Operator’s License by the
Illinois Gaming Board pursuant to the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
for the purpose of owning, servicing and maintaining video gaming terminals for
placement in a VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT.
TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT: The same definition as set forth in the Video Gaming
Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. for licensed truck stop establishment.
VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT: Any retail business located within the Village of
Rosemont that has each and every one of the following licenses: (1) a valid
Class A, Class B, Class E(1), Class B(3), or a Class L liquor license issued by
the Village of Rosemont; (2) a valid Class VG liquor license issued by the
Village of Rosemont; (3) a valid licensed establishment license issued by the
Illinois Gaming Board pursuant to the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.;
and (4) a video gaming license issued by the Village of Rosemont.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including
but not limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the
Illinois Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which
the player may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The
term does not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens
or is for amusement purposes only.
VIDEO GAMING CAFÉ: A business establishment whose primary or major focus is
video gaming where the service of alcohol and food is incidental to the
operation of video gaming.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; PROHIBITED LICENSEES:
   A.   No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall permit or allow any
video gaming terminal to be operated within the Village at any location unless
they have first been issued both a valid video gaming establishment license and
a Class VG liquor license by the Village and thereafter at all times remain in
full compliance with all licensing requirements and regulations. An applicant
seeking a video gaming establishment license and a Class VG liquor license for
more than one location shall submit separate applications for each location. No
terminal operator shall own, service, operate or maintain any video gaming
terminal within the Village at any location unless they have first been issued
a valid terminal operator’s license by the Village and thereafter at all times
remain in full compliance with all licensing requirements and regulations. A
separate application shall be submitted for each location where the terminal
operator intends to place any video gaming terminal. The applicant seeking a
video gaming establishment license, a Class VG liquor license or a terminal
operator’s license shall have the burden to prove, by clear and convincing
evidence, that they are entitled to such licenses in the Village.
   B.   Video gaming cafes, large track stop establishments and truck stop
establishments shall not be eligible for either: (1) a Village video gaming
establishment license; or (2) a Class VG liquor license.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-3: VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE APPLICATION:
The Village shall prepare a combined application form for a video gaming
establishment license and a Class VG liquor license that shall require
submission of the following information:
   A.   Identification of the applicant, its corporate status, address,
business name and location in the Village for which the licenses are sought and
any assumed name by which it is doing business at the location for which a
license is being sought;
   B.   The name and address of all individuals that are managers and members
or otherwise have any ownership interest in any limited liability company
seeking the licenses. The name and address of all individuals that are
officers, directors or have any ownership interest in any corporate entity for
which a license is being sought. The name and address of all individuals that
have any ownership in any partnership, limited partnership, joint venture or
any other type of entity for which a license is being sought;
   C.   The name and address of all individuals that have, or will have, the
responsibility for the management of the location for the licenses are being
sought;
   D.   The name and address of the primary point of contact for any
communication concerning the licenses applied for;
   E.   A true and correct copy of the full application form and all other
documents submitted to the Illinois Gaming Board for the location for which a
license is being sought;
   F.   A copy of all licenses and approvals given to the applicant by the
Illinois Gaming Board;
   G.   Proof of ownership or of a lease for the location for which the video
gaming establishment license and a Class VG liquor license are being sought;
   H.   Dimensioned construction plans for the interior room restricted to
persons of age twenty one (21) or older in which the video gaming terminals
will be located. These plans shall include:
      1.   A site plan clearly indicating the proposed location of all video
gaming terminals with clearly provided dimensioned distances to the locations
where individuals of age twenty one (21) or over will be continuously
monitoring the video gaming area any time it is in use. No barrier shall
visually obscure the gaming area from an employee of the location who is twenty
one (21) years of age or older.
      2.   Dimensioned construction plans showing that video gaming will be
located in a separate fully enclosed interior room that has partition walls
covering the full height of the area from the floor to the ceiling.
      3.   All partition walls shall include windows located between the
necessary vertical structural elements of the wall which are no lower than
three (3) feet off the floor and no higher than seven (7) feet off the floor.
The partition walls shall be fixed to the floor and the ceiling and shall not
be movable. The window areas of all partition walls shall not be open spaces
but shall have fully transparent glass or another fully transparent material.
Except, as long as an unobstructed view of the interior of the video gaming
area can be maintained at all limes, the wall against which the video gaming
terminals are to be located may not require any windows.
      4.   Any door or doors for the separate video gaming area shall be full
size and fully closable at all times. The interior portion of any door shall
have fully transparent glass or any other fully transparent material that does
not obstruct the view into the interior of the separate gaming area. The
transparent portion of any entry door into the video gaming area shall have
lettering restricting entry to only those age twenty one (21) or older. The
doors shall have the ability to be locked by the establishment at such times
that gaming will not be permitted.
      5.   The construction plans shall conclusively establish to Village’s
sole satisfaction that the view of each video gaming terminal and seating area
serving each video gaming terminal within the separate video gaming area will
not be obstructed and will be visible to an employee age twenty one (21) or
over at all times. The construction plans must be approved by the Village
before any construction can begin.
   I.   A dimensioned site plan of both the dining and kitchen areas for the
location for which a license is being sought;
   J.   A statement of any enforcement actions taken against the applicant and
each of its managers, members, officers, directors and owners by the Illinois
Gaming Board or any other body charged with the approval or regulation of any
type or form of gaming activity;
   K.   A sworn statement by the applicant and each of its managers, members,
officers, directors and owners stating that they have not had any involvement
or relationship as either a manager, member, officer, director or owner with
any entity that has had a license denied or revoked by either the Illinois
Gaming Board or any other body charged with the approval or regulation of any
type or form of gaming activity;
   L.   A copy of all documents related to any enforcement or investigatory
actions taken against the applicant and any of its managers, members, officers,
directors and owners by the Illinois Gaming Board or any other body charged
with the approval or regulation of any type or form of gaming activity and all
documents related to any final or non-final decision rendered;
   M.   A signed copy of the agreement between the entity applying for the
video gaming establishment and Class VG licenses and the terminal operator that
will be supplying the gaming machines for the location for which the licenses
are being sought;
   N.   Any documents and applications for a Class A, Class B, Class E(1),
Class E(3), or a Class L liquor license in the Village if the applicant does
not already possess one of these licenses;
   O.   Any additional documents, statements, affidavits or other proof of
compliance that may be reasonably required by the Village;
   P.   If an applicant has previously received a video gaming establishment
license and a Class VG license from the Village, the applicant may rely upon
the documentation previously submitted upon providing a sworn notarized
certification identifying:
      1.   The previous submittals being relied upon;
      2.   The extent to which the previously submitted information remains
true and correct; and
      3.   Any new information to the extent it has changed from the previous
submittal.
   Q.   A sworn notarized certification indicating all the information
submitted represents a true, and complete response to all the required
application information;
   R.   Payment of the non-refundable initial or renewal application fee for a
video gaining establishment license as set forth in the Village’s Fee Schedule;
and
   S.   All documentation, information, and sworn statements that may be
required to establish that the applicant is in strict compliance with all the
requirements of section
4-7B-4.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-4: VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
The Village shall issue a video gaming establishment license, a Class VG liquor
license or any renewal of such licenses only if the applicant establishes by
clear and convincing evidence that it meets every one of the following
requirements:
   A.   The applicant has a valid video gaming establishment license issued by
the Illinois Gaming Board in accordance with the provisions of the Video Gaming
Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., and is not in violation of the Video Gaming Act or
any Illinois Gaming Board rules or regulations;
   B.   The applicant has, or has been approved to receive, a valid Class A,
Class B, Class E(1), Class E(3), or a Class L liquor license issued by the
Village and is not in violation of the Illinois Liquor Code, the rules or
regulations of the Illinois Liquor Commission or any provisions of the
village’s liquor ordinances;
   C.   The location for which the application is made provides a full service
dinner menu for on-premises dining where the food is prepared at a kitchen
located within the premises for which the applicant is seeking a license;
   D.   The location for which the application is made does not receive more
than fifty percent (50%) of its gross revenues from video gaming. An applicant
that is seeking an initial license may satisfy this requirement by the
submission of a certified good faith estimate. For a renewal application, the
applicant shall satisfy this requirement by providing a sworn statement that
includes the actual gaming revenue received;
   E.   The applicant must be in good standing on all payments due the Village
and all taxes due. To be in good standing the applicant:
      1.   Shall not by in arrears on any amounts or payments owed to the
Village at the time of its application including, but not limited to, rent,
common area maintenance charges, water charges, promotional charges, permit/
inspection fees, fines, and penalties due the Village;
      2.   Must have paid and timely filed lax returns for all locally imposed
taxes, penalties and interest due for all relevant taxes imposed by the Village
to the extent relevant, including, but not limited to the Village’s:
         a.   Hotel tax;
         b.   Amusement tax;
      c.   Parking tax;
      d.   Tax on the gross receipts of places for eating; and
      e.   Any other current or future Village imposed tax:
      3.   Must be in compliance with the Village’s rules and regulations for
video gaming; and
      4.   Must have a valid Village business license.
   F.   The applicant has paid all liquor license fees and application fees
due;
   G.   The applicant has a use agreement with a terminal operator that has a
terminal operator’s license issued by the Illinois Gaming Board and a terminal
operator’s license issued by the Village for the location applied for by the
applicant. The agreement between the applicant seeking a video gaming
establishment license from the Village and the terminal operator shall be in
compliance with the Video Gaming Act, the Rules of the Illinois Gaming Board,
and all Village ordinances, and it shall specifically state:
      1.   That no inducement was offered or accepted regarding the placement
or operation of video gaming terminals in the establishment seeking a license;
and
      2.   A provision that releases the video gaming location from any
continuing contractual obligation to the terminal operator in the event that
the terminal operator has its license revoked or denied, has its renewal
denied, or surrenders its license.
   H.   The applicant’s full payment of the combined license fee due for a
Class VG and video gaming establishment license as set forth in the Village’s
Fee Schedule;
   I.   The application submitted by the applicant is complete in accordance
with the requirements of
4-7B-3 and free from any misstatements or inaccuracies; and
   J.   The required separate video gaming area is constructed and completed in
compliance with construction plans submitted with its application that have
been approved by the Village and are in accordance with all relevant building
codes. If the location for which the license is sought is a hotel or space
within a hotel structure, the separate segregated gaming room shall be located
within the area where food/liquor is served and shall not be located in the
hotel lobby.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-5: OPERATIONAL DUTIES; VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSEES:
The holder of any video gaming establishment license issued by the Village
shall at all times have the following obligations and duties:
   A.   The licensee shall comply with all provisions of the Illinois Video
Gaming Act and all rules, regulations and restrictions imposed by the Illinois
Gaming Board.
   B.   The operation of video gaming terminals shall not be permitted during
the hours alcoholic liquor sales are prohibited.
   C.   The video gaming terminals, shall only be located in the separate
segregated room constructed in accordance with plans and specifications that
were approved by the Village prior to the issuance of a video gaming
establishment license. The video gaming terminal area shall be restricted to
persons twenty one (21) years of age or older. The video gaming area shall at
all times be monitored by at least one employee who is over twenty one (21)
years of age. If video monitoring of the video gaming area is used, the video
monitoring shall only be in addition to, and not in lieu of direct monitoring
by at least one employee that is over age twenty one (21). A video gaming
establishment licensee shall have an affirmative duty to remove any minor form
the video gaming area. No barrier shall visually obscure the entrance to the
gaming area from an employee of the location who is twenty one (21) years of
age or over. If the location for which the license is sought is a hotel or
space within a hotel structure, the separate segregated gaming room shall be
located within the area where food/liquor is served and shall not be located in
the hotel lobby.
   D.   The total number of video gaming terminals located in the establishment
shall not exceed the maximum number allowed by the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS
40/1 et seq.
   E.   There shall be no exterior signage advertising the availability of
video gaming that is visible from any street, alley or public right-of-way
within the Village. Limited signage that is affirmatively required by the Video
Gaming Act or the Illinois Gaining Board shall be allowed, but only to the
minimum extent required by the Act or the Gaming Board.
   F.   The Village’s licensing personnel shall have access to the licensee’s
location for the purpose of determining compliance with the video gaming laws
and regulations and also for the purpose of performing any activities required
for the licensing and management of video gaming.
   G.   If the video gaming establishment licensee operates and maintains a
video camera surveillance system of the video gaming area, it shall retain the
video recordings produced therefrom for a minimum of thirty (30) days. Said
video recordings shall be subject to inspections by the Public Safety
Department upon request.
   H.   The video gaming establishment licensee shall have an affirmative duty
to at all times remain in compliance with all requirements necessary to receive
a Village video gaming establishment licensee and a Class VG liquor license and
shall immediately notify the Village of any occurrences or circumstances which
has resulted in any lack of compliance or any claim that the licensee is not in
compliance.
   I.   The video gaming establishment licensee shall immediately notify the
Village if it, or any of its managers, members, officers, directors or owners,
are the subject of any enforcement or investigatory actions taken by the
Illinois Gaming Board or any other body charged with the approval or regulation
of any type or form of gaming activity and provide the Village with all
relevant documents, including any every final or non-final decision rendered.
   J.   The video gaming establishment licensee shall immediately notify the
Village if any information submitted to the Village as part of the application
or licensing process is no longer true and shall provide a full explanation and
relevant documents.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-6: TERMINAL OPERATOR’S LICENSE APPLICATION:
The Village shall prepare an application form for a terminal operator’s license
that shall require submission of the following information:
   A.   Identification of the applicant, its corporate status, address,
business name and locations in the Village for which the license is sought and
any assumed name by which it is doing business at the location for which a
license is being sought;
   B.   The name and address of all individuals that are a managers and members
or otherwise have any ownership interest in any limited liability company
seeking the license. The name and address of all individuals that are officers,
directors or have any ownership interest in any corporate entity for which a
license is being sought. The name and address of all individuals that have any
ownership in any partnership, limited partnership, joint venture or any other
type of entity for which a license is being sought;
   C.   The name and address of all individuals that have, or will have, the
responsibility for the management of the video gaming terminals at the location
for which the license is being sought;
   D.   The name and address of the primary point of contact for any
communication concerning the license applied for;
   E.   A true and correct copy of the full application form and all other
documents submitted to the Illinois Gaming Board seeking their issuance of a
terminal operator’s license;
   F.   A copy of all licenses and approvals given to the applicant by the
Illinois Gaming Board;
   G.   A copy of all documents provided to the Illinois Gaming Board for any
license or approval that has been denied or revoked;
   H.   A statement of any enforcement actions taken against the applicant and
each of its managers, members, officers, directors and owners by the Illinois
Gaming Board or any other body charged with the approval or regulation of any
type or form of gaming activity;
   I.   A sworn statement by the applicant and each of its managers, members,
officers, directors and owners stating that they have not had any involvement
or relationship as either a manager, member, officer, director or owner with
any entity that has had a license denied or revoked by either the Illinois
Gaming Board or any other body charged with the approval or regulation of any
type or form of gaming activity;
   J.   A copy of all documents related to any enforcement or investigatory
actions taken against the applicant and any of its managers, members, officers,
directors and owners by the Illinois Gaming Board or any other body charged
with the approval or regulation of any type or form of gaming activity and all
documents related to any final or non-final decision rendered;
   K.   A signed copy of the agreement between the entity applying for the
video gaming establishment and Class VG licenses and the terminal operator that
will be supplying the gaming machines for the location for which the licenses
are being sought;
   L.   A description of the type of video gaming terminals that will be used
at the licensed location in the Village and the unique serial number or other
number used to specifically identify each video gaming terminal to be used at
the locations for which a Village terminal operator’s license is sought;
   M.   Identification of the location for which the applicant is seeking a
terminal operator’s license and all other locations in the Village for which
the applicant has received a terminal operator’s license from the Village;
   N.   Any additional documents, statements, affidavits or other proof of
compliance that may be reasonably required by the Village;
   O.   If an applicant has previously received a terminal operator’s license
from the Village, the applicant may rely upon the documentation previously
submitted upon providing a sworn notarized certification identifying:
      1.   The previous submittals being relied upon;
      2.   The extent to which the previously submitted information remains
true and correct; and
      3.   Any new information to the extent it has changed from the previous
submittal.
   P.   A sworn notarized certification indicating all the information
submitted represents a true, and complete response to all the required
application information;
   Q.   Payment of the non-refundable initial or renewal application fee for a
terminal operator’s license as set forth in the Village’s Fee Schedule; and
   R.   All documentation, information, and sworn statements that may be
required to establish that the applicant is in strict compliance with all the
requirements of section
4-7B-7.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-7: TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
The Village shall issue a terminal operator’s license or a renewal of a
terminal operators licenses only if the applicant establishes by clear and
convincing evidence that it meets every one of the following requirements:
   A.   The applicant has a terminal operator’s license issued by the Illinois
Gaming Board in accordance with the provisions of the Video Gaming Act, 230
ILCS 40/1. et seq., and is not in violation of the Video Gaming Act or any
Illinois Gaming Board rules or regulations;
   B.   The applicant must be in good standing on all payments due the Village
and all taxes due. To be in good standing the applicant:
      1.   Shall not by in arrears on any amounts or payments owed to the
Village at the time of its application;
      2.   Must have paid all locally imposed taxes, penalties and interest due
for all relevant taxes imposed by the Village, including, but not limited to
the Village’s tax on video gaming terminals and any other Village tax to the
extent relevant;
      3.   Must be in compliance with the Village’s rules and regulations for
video gaming;
      4.   Must have a valid Village business license; and
      5.   Must not be in violation of any tax requirements imposed by the
Video Gaming Act or the Illinois Gaming Board.
   C.   The applicant has a use agreement with a video gaming establishment
that has a video gaming establishment license issued by the Illinois Gaming
Board, a video gaming establishment license issued by the Village, and a Class
VG liquor license issued by the Village. The agreement between the applicant
seeking a terminal operator’s license and the video gaming establishment in
which the terminal operator intends to place video gaming terminals shall be in
compliance with the Video Gaming Act, the Rules of the Illinois Gaming Board,
all Village ordinances and shall specifically state:
      1.   That no inducement was offered or accepted regarding the placement
or operation of video gaming terminals in the establishment seeking a license;
and
      2.   A provision that releases the video gaming location from any
continuing contractual obligation to the terminal operator in the event that
the terminal operator has its license revoked or denied, has its renewal
denied, or surrenders its license.
   D.   The number of licensed video gaming establishment locations served by a
terminal operator in the Village shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the
total allowable number of video gaming locations in the Village; and
   E.   The application submitted by the applicant is complete in accordance
with the requirements of section
4-7B-6 and free from any misstatements or inaccuracies.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-8: OPERATIONAL DUTIES; TERMINAL OPERATOR LICENSEES:
The holder of any terminal operator’s license issued by the Village shall at
all limes having the following obligations and duties:
   A.   The licensee shall comply with all provisions of the Illinois Video
Gaming Act and all rules, regulations and restrictions imposed by the Illinois
Gaming Board;
   B.   Assume the primary responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
video gaming terminals and for payment of tax remittance to the State as
required by the Video Gaming Act. All applications fees, license fees and taxes
due to the Village are in addition to any fees or taxes imposed by the Illinois
Gaming Board or the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.;
   C.   Ensure the timely repair and continued, approved operation and play of
the video gaming terminals it operates;
   D.   Assume responsibility for terminal and associated video gaming
equipment malfunctions, including any claim for the payment of credits arising
from malfunctions;
   E.   Promptly notify the Illinois Gaming Board and Village of electronic or
mechanical malfunctions or problems experienced in a terminal that affect the
integrity of terminal play;
   F.   Respond to service calls within a reasonable time from the time of
notification by the video gaming location;
   G.   Immediately remove all video gaming terminals from the restricted area
of play:
      1.   Upon order of the Illinois Gaming Board or the Village; or
      2.   That have been out of service or otherwise inoperable for more than
seventy two (72) hours.
   H.   Provide the Village on a monthly basis a current list of video gaming
terminals acquired for use in the Village and their unique identifying number;
   I.   Not install, remove or relocate any video gaming terminal without prior
notification and approval of the Illinois Gaming Board Administrator or his
designee and prior notification to the Village;
   J.   Service, maintain or repair video gaming terminals at licensed video
gaming locations only by licensed technicians or licensed terminal handlers;
   K.   The terminal operator licensee shall immediately notify the Village if
it, or any of its managers, members, officers, directors or owners, are the
subject of any enforcement or investigatory actions taken by the Illinois
Gaming Board or any other body charged with the approval or regulation of any
type or form of gaming activity and provide the Village with all relevant
documents, including any every final or non-final decision rendered; and
   L.   The terminal operator licensee shall immediately notify the Village if
any information submitted to the Village as part of the application or
licensing process is no longer true and shall provide a full explanation and
relevant documents.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-9: DURATION OF LICENSES; RENEWAL:
Unless revoked or suspended, all video gaming establishment licenses, all class
VG liquor licenses, and all terminal operator’s licenses shall be valid for a
full twelve (12) month period beginning as of the first day of the month the
license was issued by the Village, and may thereafter be renewed upon
compliance with the terms of this article and the payment of all applicable
application and license fees.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-10: VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL TAX:
   A.   A tax is herein imposed on each video gaming terminal installed or
operated within the Village by a terminal operator in the amount set forth in
the Village’s Fee Schedule for each video gaming terminal. The tax shall be due
and paid prior to the date each video gaming terminal is placed in operation
and shall satisfy the tax due for the full twelve (12) month registration
period beginning as of the first day of the month in which each video gaming
terminal is placed in operation. At the expiration of the initial twelve (12)
month registration period, the registration may be renewed for subsequent
twelve (12) month periods by the payment of the tax amount set forth in the
Village’s Fee Schedule at the time of the renewal.
   B.   Upon the payment of the video gaming terminal tax for each video gaming
terminal, the Village shall maintain a registry of each video gaming terminal
that includes: a description of the video gaming terminal; its location; the
unique serial number or other unique number used to specifically identify each
video gaming terminal; the date the video gaming terminal tax was paid; the
date the registration period for the video gaming terminal expires, which date
shall be the last day of the full twelve (12) month period beginning as of the
first day of the month in which each video gaming terminal is placed in
operation; and each date the registration is renewed by the payment of the tax
amount due at the time of the renewal as set forth in the Village’s Fee
Schedule.
   C.   Upon the payment of the video gaming terminal tax for each video gaming
terminal, the Village shall, prior to the operation of the terminal, affix a
decal or sticker identifying the last month and year in which the video gaming
terminal’s registration will be valid. In the event a terminal operator
permanently removes a video gaming terminal from the location for which it is
registered, the terminal operator may provide the registration information for
a replacement and request that the remaining registration period for the
removed video gaming terminal be allocated to the replacement video gaming
terminal operated at the same location. In the event a terminal operator adds
an additional video gaming terminal to a location for which it has been
licensed, the terminal operator shall immediately notify the Village and shall
not operate the additional terminal until the registration and the payment of
the video gaming terminal tax for the additional video gaming terminal has been
completed. A video gaming terminal that does not display a Village decal or
sticker identifying the last month and year in which the video gaming
terminal’s registration will be valid is subject to seizure and may be turned
over to the Illinois Gaming Board or other appropriate jurisdiction unless
otherwise ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   A terminal operator shall not under any circumstances operate any video
gaming terminal if the video gaming terminal tax has not been paid; or the
video gaming terminal has not been registered by the Village.
   E.   A terminal operator shall not allow or permit any tampering or removal
of any decal or sticker affixed to any video gaming terminal by the Village and
shall immediately give notice to the Village of the removal of, or any damage
sustained to, any decal or sticker affixed to any video gaming terminal by the
Village.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-11: LOSS OF LICENSES:
A video gaming terminal shall not under any circumstances be operated in the
Village if:
   A.   The terminal operator responsible for the operation of the video gaming
terminal no longer has a terminal operator’s license issued by both the
Illinois Gaming Board and the Village for the location where a video gaming
terminal is located;
   B.   If the location where the video gaming terminal is located does not
possess a valid video gaming establishment license issued by both the Illinois
Gaming Board and the Village;
   C.   If the location where the video gaming terminal is located does not
possess a valid Class VG liquor license issued by the Village; or
   D.   If the location where the video gaming terminal is located does not
possess a valid Class A, Class B, Class E(1), Class E(3), or a Class L liquor
license issued by the Village.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
The Village’s Local Liquor Control Commissioner or his designee shall have the
jurisdiction to suspend or revoke any video gaming establishment license and
any terminal operator’s license issued by the Village if, after a hearing, he
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of any
ordinance enacted by the corporate authorities of the Village. The hearing
shall be based upon written charges setting forth the facts for the alleged
violation that are served upon the licensee with a notice to appear at a
specific date, time and place for a hearing that is not less than fourteen (1)4
days after date of service of the notice to appear and the written charges. The
charges and the notice to appear may be served by certified mail to the address
for the licensee, by personal delivery to the licensee’s manager or agent at
the location in the Village for which the license has been granted, or
otherwise in any manner allowed for the service of a summons under the Illinois
Code of Civil Procedure. At the hearing, the licensee may be represented by an
attorney at its own expense and shall have the right to cross-examine
witnesses, receive and review documentary evidence presented, call its own
witnesses and present documentary evidence on their behalf. All testimony shall
be given under oath and the hearing shall not be subject to the strict
application of the rules of evidence provided the testimony is of a type that
is reasonable deemed reliable and probative of a matter relevant to the
hearing. The hearing shall be transcribed by a certified court reporter. The
Village’s Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall issue a written decision
based on the facts presented at the hearing as to whether the license shall be
suspended or revoked. A suspension of a license shall not be for more than
thirty (30) days. If the hearing is conducted by a hearing officer designee of
the Village’s Local Liquor Control Commissioner, the hearing officer shall
submit, written findings with the hearing officer's recommendation to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
obtain and review a transcript of the hearing, review the findings and
recommendation of the hearing officer and render written decision as to whether
the license shall be suspended or revoked. In any action where the license is
suspended or revoked, the licensee shall pay to the Village all costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the Village and the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-13: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS AND LICENSEES:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner or his designee shall have the right to:
   A.   Examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
Village video gaming establishment license and any applicant for a Village
terminal operators license;
   B.   Examine or cause to be examined, the books and records of any such
applicant or licensee; or
   C.   Hear testimony and take proof for his information related to any
application for Village video gaming establishment license or a Village
terminal operator’s license. It shall be the duty of every applicant or
licensee for a Village video gaming establishment license or a Village terminal
operator’s license to make books and records available upon reasonable notice
for the purpose of investigation and control as provided herein.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
4-7B-14: MONETARY VIOLATIONS; FINES:
It shall be a violation of this article for any applicant or holder of a
Village video gaming establishment license or a Village terminal operator’s
license to act in any manner that is contrary to any of the duties,
obligations, and requirements of this article. The charges or citation for any
such violation may, at the discretion of the Village, be pursued through the
Village’s system for the administrative adjudication of ordinance violations or
otherwise by an action filed in the Circuit Court. Each day that a violation
occurs shall be a new violation. If it is determined that a violation has
occurred, a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) but not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) may be imposed for each violation.
(Ord. 2020-6-10, 6-10-2020)
ARTICLE C: RESALE OF TICKETS FOR AMUSEMENTS
Section
4-7C-1:   Definitions
4-7C-2:   Sale Of Tickets Other Than At Box Office Prohibited; Exceptions
4-7C-3:   Service Charge Permitted
4-7C-4:   Penalty
4-7C-5:   Seizure And Forfeiture Of Tickets
4-7C-6:   Prosecution Of Violations
4-7C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AMUSEMENT: Any exhibition, performance or show for entertainment purposes
including, but not limited to, any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular
performance; promotional show; motion picture show; flower or animal show;
circus; rodeo; athletic contest; sport; game; or similar exhibition, such as
boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing, basketball, soccer, football, track and
field games, or hockey to which tickets are sold to the public.
AUTHORIZED AGENT: When used in the context of an authorized agent of the owner
or operator of an amusement or a place where an amusement is held, includes
persons, firms and corporations authorized by the owner or operator to sell
tickets to the amusement over the Internet, through the mail, over the
telephone or at a remote location.
(Ord. 2008-1-9G, 1-9-2008)
4-7C-2: SALE OF TICKETS OTHER THAN AT BOX OFFICE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, it is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation within the corporate limits of the Village,
other than the owner or operator of an amusement or a place where an amusement
is held or their employees or their authorized agents, to sell, or to solicit
the sale of, an admission ticket to an amusement.
   B.   The restrictions set forth in subsection A of this section do not apply
to the sale of an admission ticket or soliciting the sale of an admission
ticket to an amusement:
      1.   If the amount for which the admission ticket is sold, bartered or
exchanged, or offered to be sold, is equal to either the price of the ticket as
stated on the ticket or the amount for which the ticket was sold when first
issued; or
      2.   If the admission ticket is sold by a ticket broker who is registered
with the Office of the Secretary of State as provided in section 1.5(b) of the
Illinois Ticket Sale and Resale Act (720 ILCS 375/1.5(c)); or
      3.   If the admission ticket is sold by a reseller engaged in interstate
or intrastate commerce on an Internet auction listing service duly registered
with the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation under the
Auction License Act (225 ILCS 407/5-1 et seq.) and with the Illinois Office of
the Secretary of State; provided, that the operator of the Internet auction
listing service meets the requirements set forth in section 1.5(c) of the
Illinois Ticket Sale and Resale Act (815 ILCS 414/1.5(c)). This subsection B3
applies to both sales through an online bid submission process and sales at a
fixed price on the same website or interactive computer service as an Internet
auction listing service registered with the Illinois Department of Financial
and Professional Regulation; or
      4.   If the admission ticket is sold at an auction solely by or for a not
for profit organization for charitable purposes under clause (a)(1) of section
10-1 of the Illinois Auction License Act (225 ILCS 407/10-1(a)(1)); or
      5.   If the admission ticket is sold through an Internet website whose
operator meets the requirements set forth in section 1.5(e) of the Illinois
Ticket Sale and Resale Act (815 ILCS 414/1.5(e)).
(Ord. 2008-1-9G, 1-9-2008)
4-7C-3: SERVICE CHARGE PERMITTED:
Nothing contained in this article prohibits a ticket seller, with the consent
of the owner or operator of an amusement or a place where an amusement is held,
from collecting a reasonable service charge in addition to the price as stated
on the admission ticket or the price for which an admission ticket was sold
when issued from a ticket purchaser in return for service actually rendered.
(Ord. 2008-1-9G, 1-9-2008)
4-7C-4: PENALTY:
Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of this article shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2008-1-9G, 1-9-2008)
4-7C-5: SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF TICKETS:
Any admission ticket sold or offered for sale in violation of section
4-7C-2 of this article is declared to be contraband subject to seizure, and any
such admission ticket shall be subject to forfeiture upon a finding of guilty
of any person for a violation of said section
4-7C-2. Upon appropriate order of a court or an administrative hearing officer,
the admission ticket shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2008-1-9G, 1-9-2008)
4-7C-6: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS:
Violations of the provisions of section
4-7C-2 of this article are subject to prosecution under the Village
administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to
title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code, as now or hereafter amended. The
provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this article
including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, or before another administrative tribunal which has
jurisdiction to consider the violation.
(Ord. 2008-1-9G, 1-9-2008)
CHAPTER 8: HOTELS AND MOTELS
Section
4-8-1:   Definition
4-8-2:   License Required
4-8-3:   Application For License
4-8-4:   Regulations
4-8-5:   Annual Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See
title 3, chapter 5  of this Code for hotel and motel use tax; see subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-8-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HOTEL/MOTEL: Every building or structure kept, used or maintained as, or held
out to the public to be, an inn, hotel, motel or public lodging house or place
where sleeping accommodations are furnished for hire to transient guests,
whether with or without meals, in which ten (10) or more rooms are used for the
accommodation of guests.
(Ord. 75 12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate any hotel or motel
within the Village without first obtaining a license therefor as provided
herein.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
A license application shall be made conformity with the general requirements of
this title pertaining to applications for business licenses.
(Ord. 76-11-3B, 11-3-197 6)
4-8-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Clean And Sanitary Premises:
      1.   Every establishment licensed under this chapter and every part
thereof shall be clean and free from any accumulation of dirt, filth, garbage
and other matter in or on the same, or in the yard, court, passage area or
alley connected with or belonging to the same.
      2.   The owner or keeper shall thoroughly cleanse all the rooms,
passages, stairs, floors, windows, doors, walls, ceilings, privies, cesspools
and drains of the house or part of the house of which he is the owner, lessee
or keeper to the satisfaction of the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department as often as shall be required by or in accordance with any
regulation or order of the Director.
      3.   Plumbing fixtures and floors shall be thoroughly cleaned at least
once daily, or more often if necessary.
   B.   Garbage And Refuse Receptacles: Every licensee shall have proper and
suitable conveniences or receptacles for receiving garbage and other refuse
matter.
   C.   Sanitation Facilities:
      1.   Each sleeping unit shall be furnished with its own sanitary
facilities which shall consist of a minimum of one flush toilet and one
lavatory and one bath or shower.
      2.   All water closets and urinals in, or used in connection with, any
hotel or lodging house shall be disinfected as often as may be necessary to
keep them in sanitary condition.
      3.   Hot and cold running water shall be available at all times at
lavatory, bath and shower fixtures.
      4.   Each licensee having a public washroom shall keep therein at all
times a sufficient supply of individual clean towels in a place in sight of and
of easy access to guests.
   D.    Water Supply And Sewage Disposal Facilities: Water supply and sewage
disposal facilities shall be maintained and operated so as to perform their
function.
   E.   Beds And Bedding, Soap And Towels:
      1.   Each sleeping unit shall be furnished with beds and bedding which
shall be in good condition, clean and adequate to maintain body comfort.
      2.   All beds for the accommodation of guests shall be provided with a
sufficient supply of clean bedding and with clean sheets. All beds shall be
provided with clean sheets as often as the beds are assigned to different
persons, or as requested by the hotel guest.
      3.   Each occupant of a sleeping unit shall be furnished with soap and at
least one clean, freshly laundered bath towel and hand towel daily.
   F.   Temperature: A comfortable temperature shall be maintained in sleeping
units heated from a central plant. Where central heating is not provided,
sleeping units shall be furnished with safe, convenient and adequate facilities
for use by occupants as necessary.
   G.   Lighting: During hours of darkness, adequate lighting shall be
maintained at all buildings and on the site.
   H.   Fire Extinguishers: Fire extinguishers shall be maintained in a filled
and workable condition.
   I.   Building Requirements: The layout, development and facilities of the
licensee shall conform to the standards, and requirements of this Code, the
Building Code and all other valid ordinances of the Village.
   J.   Parking Space: Parking spaces shall be provided as set forth in the
Village Zoning Code.
   K.   Registration And Recordkeeping Area: There shall be an office or room
where incoming occupants will be registered and where the registration records
shall be maintained in approved form and kept available at all times for
inspection by Village officials.
   L.   Manager:
      1.   The licensed premises shall be in the charge of a manager who shall
be of good moral character, available and responsible at all times for
maintaining the grounds, buildings, and facilities in a sanitary, safe and
orderly and usable condition.
      2.   The manager shall comply with such other applicable health and
sanitation rules and regulations that have been adopted under the powers
granted State or County Health Departments.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-8-5: ANNUAL INSPECTIONS:
Every hotel or motel operated in the Village shall be inspected under and by
authority of the Director of the Health and Licensing Department at least once
every year. Such inspections shall cover all matters pertaining to the sanitary
conditions of the rooms, beds and bedding, including the ventilation of all
rooms or occupied rooms, and also all rooms occupied by the servants or other
employees, to ascertain the condition of such rooms with respect to light,
heat, ventilation and general sanitation. The investigation shall be
sufficiently accurate and complete to convince the Director or his duly
authorized representative whether the building and premises and parts thereof
comply in all respects with this Code or the ordinances of the Village and the
laws of the State pertaining to such establishments.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 9: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
4-9-1:   Definitions
4-9-2:   Peddlers And Commercial Solicitors
4-9-2-1:   License Required
4-9-2-2:   Application For License
4-9-2-3:   License Fee
4-9-2-4:   Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-9-2-5:   Term Of License
4-9-2-6:   Peddling And Commercial Soliciting Prohibited In Certain Areas
4-9-2-7:   Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Hearing
4-9-3:   Noncommercial Solicitors
4-9-4:   Restrictions Applicable To All Peddlers And Solicitors
4-9-5:   Prohibited Peddling And Soliciting
4-9-6:   Charitable Highway Solicitations
4-9-7:   Penalty
4-9-1:    DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL SOLICITING OR SOLICITATION: The door-to-door selling or offering for
sale of property, goods, wares, merchandise, food or services of any kind,
character or description whatever, for any kind of consideration, for future
delivery or performance, but excluding “noncommercial solicitation”, as defined
in this section. “Commercial solicitation” shall not include the sale of goods
by persons conducting fundraising activities for local schools or youth
scouting organizations where the goods will be delivered at a future date.
DEPARTMENT: The Rosemont Public Safety Department.
NONCOMMERCIAL SOLICITING OR SOLICITATION: The door-to-door soliciting of gifts,
contributions of money or goods, or support for any bona fide charitable,
political, religious or not for profit organization purpose.
PEDDLING: The door-to-door sale or offering for sale of property for immediate
delivery from other than a fixed place of business on private property,
including the sale of charitable or religious books or pamphlets. PEDDLING
shall not include the sale of goods by charitable organizations for charitable
purposes for not to exceed one day in any calendar year, or the sale of goods
by persons as part of fundraising activities for local schools or local youth
organizations.
SOLICITATION: Does not include any of the activities described in the
definition of “commercial soliciting or solicitation” or “noncommercial
soliciting or solicitation” in this section when undertaken by any person
granted a previous invitation or appointment.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of Public Safety, or his designee.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-2: PEDDLERS AND COMMERCIAL SOLICITORS:
4-9-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddling or
commercial solicitation in the Village without having first obtained a license
therefor as provided herein.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Persons desiring to engage in peddling or commercial solicitation within the
Village shall make application for a license to the department upon a form
provided by the Village. The applicant shall provide the following information
concerning the applicant and the persons who will be engaged in the proposed
activities:
   A.   The full name, date of birth (if a person), mailing address and the
telephone number of the person or organization, if any, sponsoring, promoting,
or conducting the proposed activities.
   B.   The full name, date of birth, mailing address and telephone number of
the individual person or persons who have supervision of or responsibility for
the proposed activities.
   C.   The full name, date of birth, mailing address and telephone number of
the individual person or persons who will be engaged in the proposed
activities, and color photographs of each such person.
   D.   The dates and hours which the activities or solicitation are proposed
to begin and end, within time limits allowed under this chapter.
   E.   The date, or approximate date, of the last previous application
submitted by the applicant for a license under this chapter.
   F.   Whether the applicant or any of the persons identified in the
application has ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under the
laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or under the Federal laws of
the United States.
   G.   Evidence that the applicant is authorized to solicit for the
organization represented.
   H.   The number and description of all vehicles that will be used.
   I.   A certificate of insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to
do business in Illinois shall be provided to the department with the
application, showing that the applicant and his solicitors or peddlers are
insured against liability for damages for personal injuries and property damage
arising out of the negligent acts of the applicant and the applicant’s
solicitors or peddlers. The certificate may not expire or be canceled during
the period of solicitation and will provide at least the following coverage:
      1.   Personal injury: Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per
person, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence.
      2.   Property damage: One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-2-3: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a peddler/commercial solicitor license shall be the fee established
in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-15-1B of this Code.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-2-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The Superintendent of Public Safety, upon receipt of a properly completed
application, but in no event later than ten (10) working days after receipt of
the application, shall either issue a license or notify the applicant in
writing that the application has been denied because of the applicant’s failure
to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-2-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
A license for peddling or soliciting referred to herein shall be valid for the
period stated in the license, but in no event for a period longer than ninety
(90) days from the date of the issuance of same. Nothing herein, however, shall
prevent the reissuance of licenses to peddlers or solicitors in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-2-6: PEDDLING AND COMMERCIAL SOLICITING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   No person, including a person who has been issued a license under this
chapter, shall sell, offer or expose for sale, or solicit anyone to purchase
any property, goods, merchandise, food or services of any kind within the
following areas:
      1.   The area in the vicinity of the Allstate Arena bounded on the east
by Mannheim Road, on the north by Touhy Avenue, on the west by Barry Street
extended to Higgins Road, and on the south by Higgins Road;
      2.   The area in the vicinity of the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center
bounded on the west by River Road, on the north by the Kennedy Expressway, on
the east by the Des Plaines River, and on the south by the northern boundary
line of Balmoral Avenue extended to the Des Plaines River; or
      3.   The area in the vicinity of the Rosemont Theater and the Rosemont
Entertainment District bounded on the west by the Tri-State Tollway, on the
north by Bryn Mawr Avenue extended from River Road Tri-State Tollway, on the
east by River Road, and on the south by Foster Avenue and the Village corporate
limits.
   B.   The aforementioned prohibited boundaries apply unless such person has
been properly authorized by the owner of the premises on which the person is
located to sell, offer, expose for sale, or solicit the purchase of any
property, goods, merchandise, food or services.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-2-7: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
   A.   Provided, that the solicitor or peddler has been given prior notice and
an opportunity to respond to the charges of a violation, the Superintendent may
suspend or revoke a license for violation of any provisions of this chapter. If
the Superintendent suspends or revokes such license, the solicitor or peddler
may, within five (5) days after notice of the revocation or suspension, request
an informal hearing to review the suspension or revocation by written notice to
the Superintendent.
   B.   At the hearing, the aggrieved licensee may be represented by counsel
with the right to confront and cross examine the witness(es) against him. The
Superintendent shall appoint a hearing officer to determine whether substantial
evidence supports the suspension or revocation, and whether the suspension or
revocation is contrary to the manifest weight of the evidence. Strict rules of
evidence shall not apply. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final.
   C.   Within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the findings and
order of the hearing officer shall be sent to the licensee at the address
listed on the applicant’s application by personal service, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, by electronic mail, or by first class United States
mail to the licensee’s attorney, if any.
(Ord. 20I2-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-3: NONCOMMERCIAL SOLICITORS:
No application or license fee shall be required for any person who intends to
engage in noncommercial solicitation in the Village. Any person desiring to
engage in noncommercial solicitation with the Village shall provide the
following information for identification purposes only upon registering with
the department, or upon request by a public safety officer of the department:
   A.   The full name, date of birth (if a person), mailing address and
telephone number of the person or organization, if any, sponsoring, promoting,
or conducting the proposed activities.
   B.   The full name, date of birth, mailing address, and telephone number of
the individual person or persons who have supervision of or responsibility for
the proposed activities.
   C.   The full name, date of birth, mailing address and telephone number of
the individual person or persons who will be engaged in the proposed
activities, and color photographs of such person(s).
   D.   The date or dates on which the solicitation is proposed to occur, and
the hours during which the solicitation will begin and end, within the limits
established in this chapter.
   E.   Evidence that the applicant is authorized to solicit for the
organization represented.
   F.   The number and description of all vehicles that will be used.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-4: RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in
solicitation or peddling at any time prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A. M. or
after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. local time.
   B.   Uninvited Peddling Or Soliciting:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in solicitation or
peddling upon the premises of any dwelling, house, apartment, or other
residential premises, or upon any commercial, institutional or industrial
premises, after having been asked by the owner or lawful occupant thereof to
leave such premises.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in solicitation or
peddling upon the premises of any dwelling, house, apartment, or other
residence located thereon if such premises or residence is posted against
solicitation or peddling by means of a prominently displayed notice as defined
in subsection 4-9-5A of this chapter.
   C.   False Statements Or Information:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person who engages in solicitation or
peddling to use any false plan, scheme, or ruse, or to make any false statement
which indicates or implies that the purpose of such person’s visit is other
than to obtain contributions or orders for sale of goods or services.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person who engages in solicitation or
peddling to misrepresent the right of a buyer to rescind or cancel a sale under
the provisions of applicable law.
   D.   Presenting Items Not Specified In License: It shall be unlawful for any
person who engages in solicitation or peddling to barter, sell, or peddle any
goods, merchandise, or wares other than those specified in his application for
a license.
   E.   Interfering With Traffic: It is unlawful and a violation of this
chapter for any solicitor or peddler to interfere with either vehicular or
pedestrian traffic on the public right-of-way.
   F.   Sound Amplification: It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for
any solicitor or peddler to use sound or voice amplification systems or other
mechanical sound devices in any solicitation or peddling.
   G.   Identification:
      1.   Each solicitor and peddler licensee shall wear an identification
badge on his outer garments so as to be visible at all times, which badge shall
be issued by the department, and which shall contain, in a form authorized by
the department, the following:
         a.   Name of the licensee;
         b.   Name of the group or organization, if any, on whose behalf the
licensee is conducting regulated activities;
         c.   The issuance and expiration date of the license.
      2.   Each noncommercial solicitor shall bear a government issued photo ID
at all times that he is engaged in soliciting and shall display such ID upon
request to any Village public safety officer, and to any person being solicited
by the solicitor.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-5: PROHIBITED PEDDLING AND SOLICITING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
engage in solicitation or peddling upon the premises of any dwelling or
residence located thereon if such dwelling or residence premises is posted
against solicitation or peddling by means of a notice prominently displaying a
message in substantially the following terms:
   ONLY SOLICITORS OR PEDDLERS
   LICENSED OR REGISTERED IN ROSEMONT INVITED
   or
   NO SOLICITORS OR PEDDLERS
   B.   Any landowner or lawful resident upon the premises desiring to take
advantage of this section may obtain such decals at the Village Hall. Such
decal shall then be prominently displayed on the front door or window where it
can be readily seen from the public sidewalk or other entryway in front of the
premises.
   C.   Any peddler or solicitor entering any premises so posted with a sign or
decal shall be guilty of violating this section and may be prosecuted
accordingly.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
4-9-6: CHARITABLE HIGHWAY SOLICITATIONS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to go upon any public street within the Village boundaries
for the purpose of soliciting from motorists or others using any public street;
provided, however, charitable solicitation may be permitted on public streets
in accordance with the provisions of this section when a permit has been
issued, and in accordance with the conditions stated in the permit.
   B.   Eligibility For Permit:
      1.   Charitable solicitation permits under this section shall be issued
only to a soliciting agency that is a bona fide religious, charitable, labor,
fraternal, educational, or veterans’ organization that operates without profit
to its members and which has been in existence continuously for a period of
five (5) years immediately before making application for a permit and which has
had, during that entire five (5) year period, a bona fide membership engaged in
carrying out their objectives.
      2.   No soliciting agency is eligible for a permit under this section
unless it is registered with the Illinois Attorney General as required under
section 11-1006 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-1006).
   C.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Any eligible organization seeking to conduct charitable
solicitations on public streets shall file an application with the department
in the same calendar year as, and not less than thirty (30) days before, the
date that the solicitation is proposed to occur.
      2.   The application shall contain the following information, which must
be updated by the applicant as circumstances warrant:
         a.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person signing the
application.
         b.   The date(s) of the proposed charitable solicitation.
         c.   The public streets and directions of travel on which the
charitable solicitation is proposed to occur.
         d.   The approximate number of people who will participate in the
charitable solicitation.
         e.   The name, address, and telephone number of all persons who will
participate as street solicitors.
         f.   Proof of registration as a charitable organization with the
Illinois Attorney General.
      3.   Except as hereafter provided, all applications for a charitable
solicitation permit shall be processed on a first-in-time basis. During the
final business day of each calendar year, the Public Safety Department shall
accept all applications for a charitable solicitation permit filed hereunder
without giving priority to applications filed first in time. Any conflict
between or among two (2) or more such applicants filed during that period for
the same day(s) shall be resolved by a lottery to be conducted by the Chief.
Applications for charitable solicitation permits received during the first
business day of the calendar year shall be given priority over applications
received thereafter.
   D.   Number Of Permits Limited; Days And Hours: The number of charitable
solicitation permits for use of public streets shall be limited to thirty six
(36) permits annually. Each permit shall be valid only for one period of three
(3) consecutive days during the course of one calendar year. The permit shall
only be valid during daylight hours on the dates specified and for the public
street locations identified in the permit. No charitable organization shall be
issued more than one charitable solicitation permit in any calendar year.
   E.   Regulations:
      1.   Location Under Construction: No solicitation shall be permitted at
any time at a specific location if the adjacent right-of-way or the roadway is
under construction.
      2.   Minimum Age; High Visibility Vest: Any person engaged in the act of
solicitation shall be eighteen (18) years of age or more and shall be wearing a
high visibility orange or lime green high visibility vest.
      3.   Obstructing Traffic Prohibited: In no event shall solicitors
obstruct or impede the flow of traffic on the roadway.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 F of this Code for permit fee
4-9-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating an of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs.
(Ord. 2012-8-8J, 8-8-2012)
CHAPTER 10: FIREARMS DEALERS
Section
4-10-1:   Definitions
4-10-2:   Sales, Purchases, Trading At Other Than Gun Shows Prohibited
4-10-3:   Gun Show Permit Requirements
4-10-4:   Firearms And Ammunition At Gun Shows
4-10-5:   Violations
4-10-6:   Revocation Of Permit
4-10-7:   Penalties
4-10-8:   Cook County Regulations Do Not Apply
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
ATF: Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and any
successor agency.
ANTIQUE FIREARM:
   A.   Any firearm, including any firearm with a matchlock; flintlock,
percussion cap or similar type of ignition system, manufactured in or before
1898; and
   B.   Any replica of any firearm described in subsection A of this definition
if such replica is not designed or redesigned for using rimfire or conventional
centerfire fixed ammunition, or uses rimfire or conventional centerfire fixed
ammunition which is no longer manufactured in the United States and which is
not readily available in the ordinary channels of commercial trade.
DEADLY WEAPONS: Any bowie knife, dirk or other weapon of like character which
can be concealed upon the person.
ENGAGE IN THE BUSINESS: A person, firm or entity who devotes time, attention
and labor to selling, trading, bartering or otherwise dealing in firearms as a
regular course of trade or business with the principal objective of profiting
from the repetitive purchase, acquisition, sale and resale of firearms, but
such term shall not include a person who makes occasional sales, exchanges or
purchases of not more than one firearm a month for the enhancement of a
personal collection, or for a hobby, without a view to profit.
FOID: A valid firearm owner’s identification card issued to a private citizen
by the Illinois State Police.
FIREARM: Any pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, machine gun, assault weapon or
other device that fits within the definition of “firearm” contained in the
Illinois Firearm Owner’s Identification Card Act (430 ILCS 65/0.01 et seq.).
GUN SHOW: An event or function that is sponsored by any national, State or
local organization devoted to the collection, competitive use or other sporting
use of firearms, or by an organization or association that sponsors functions
devoted to the collection, competitive use or other sporting use of firearms,
and that is conducted on exposition property owned by the Village.
(Ord. 2012-10-10L, 10-10-2012)
4-10-2: SALES, PURCHASES, TRADING AT OTHER THAN GUN SHOWS PROHIBITED:
No person shall engage in the business of selling, dealing, bartering,
purchasing or trading firearms anywhere within the Village, except at gun shows
conducted on exposition premises owned by the Village, and pursuant to a permit
issued under this chapter by the Chief of Public Safety.
(Ord. 2012-10-10L, 10-10-2012)
4-10-3: GUN SHOW PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or entity
required to be licensed under Federal law to engage in the business of dealing,
selling, bartering, trading, giving away or otherwise transferring any firearm
to engage in the business anywhere in the Village of dealing, selling,
purchasing, bartering, trading, giving away or otherwise transferring any
firearm, except at a gun show as authorized in this chapter and only pursuant
to a permit issued by the Chief of Public Safety.
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring a permit authorizing the
sale of any firearms or deadly weapons at a gun show shall make application in
writing to the Chief of Public Safety, on a form to be provided by the Chief,
setting out the following information:
      1.   The full name and residence of the applicant, if the applicant is an
individual. If applicant is a firm, corporation, partnership or other entity,
the name and address of the applicant, the legal nature of applicant’s firm,
corporation, partnership or other entity, the nature and location of
applicant’s business, and the name and residence of each of applicant’s
officers, members, partners and persons or entities having a five percent (5%)
or more ownership or income interest in the entity.
      2.   The date, time and place of the gun show for which the applicant is
requesting a permit.
      3.   Evidence that the sponsor of the gun show has invited the applicant
to participate.
      4.   Evidence that the applicant possesses a Federal firearms dealer
license.
      5.   Evidence that the gun show has been reported to and recognized by
the Illinois Department of State Police.
      6.   A statement that the applicant will comply with all Federal, State
and Village regulations concerning the acquisition and disposition of firearms
including, but not limited to, gun show rules established by ATF.
      7.   A statement that the applicant has performed a background check to
determine that all employees who will be involved in the transfer, sale,
handling, assembly, shipping, packing, receiving or display or demonstration of
firearms at a gun show would be qualified to obtain a FOID.
   C.   Permit Fee: The fee for a gun show permit shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   D.   Restrictions On Issuance: No permit shall be issued to a firearms
dealer to participate in a gun show unless the applicant presents sufficient
evidence to the Chief of Public Safety demonstrating:
      1.   The applicant possesses a Federal firearms dealer license.
      2.   The applicant has arranged to have appropriate security present
throughout the duration of the gun show.
      3.   The gun show has been reported to and recognized by the Illinois
Department of State Police.
      4.   The gun show shall be held for no more than five (5) consecutive
days.
      5.   The applicant will not engage in bartering or trading firearms at
the gun show with delivery occurring anywhere in the Village.
      6.   All firearms displayed at the gun show shall be secured and rendered
safe and unfireable through the use of a plastic cable tie or other lockable
mechanical device.
      7.   All firearms not currently being displayed at the gun show shall be
secured in locked containers.
      8.   Ammunition at the gun show shall be secured in the following
fashion:
         a.   Modern boxed ammunition shall be taped or sealed at both ends.
         b.   Vintage or collectible ammunition must be in sealed plastic bags
or in a locked glass case.
         c.   Except for law enforcement officers, no firearm may contain
ammunition.
         d.   May be contained in a firearm, magazine or clip.
      9.   The applicant will comply with all recordkeeping requirements
concerning the acquisition and disposition of firearms.
      10.   The applicant shall submit an application for a gun show permit in
writing to the Chief of Public Safety on a form provided for that purpose.
(Ord. 2012-10-10L, 10-10-2012)
4-10-4: FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION AT GUN SHOWS:
   A.   Except for law enforcement officers, no persons except firearms dealers
possessing a gun show permit may bring, carry or transport firearms or
ammunition into a gun show.
   B.   All firearms sold or transferred during a gun show may only be
delivered in a safe and unfireable condition.
   C.   Firearms which are physically transferred to a buyer during the gun
show on the premises of the exposition center shall be maintained in a safe and
unfireable condition by the buyer at all times while on the premises of the
exposition center.
   D.   Before transferring possession of any firearm pursuant to a sale
occurring at a gun show, any firearms dealer possessing a permit from the Chief
of Public Safety to engage in the sale of firearms at a gun show shall obtain
any information required by law for each firearm sought to be sold or
transferred, and shall provide such information to the Chief of Public Safety
at the end of each day during the conduct of the gun show. If the purchaser is
a resident of the State of Illinois, a photocopy of the purchaser’s firearm
owner’s identification card shall also be provided. The information provided to
the Chief of Public Safety shall include the following information with respect
to firearms sold or transferred during a gun show:
      1.   FOID card number.
      2.   Weapon number.
      3.   Name of purchaser.
      4.   Address of purchaser.
      5.   Age of purchaser.
      6.   Kind or description of firearm.
      7.   For what purpose purchased.
      8.   Price.
(Ord. 2012-10-10L, 10-10-2012)
4-10-5: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for a firearms dealer to:
   A.   Fail to display a valid Federal firearms license.
   B.   Fail to comply with all State and Federal recordkeeping requirements
concerning the acquisition or disposition of firearms.
   C.   Barter or trade firearms during a gun show with delivery to occur
anywhere in the Village.
   D.   Transfer, acquire or dispose of firearms within the Village except as
authorized by a gun show permit.
   E.   Fail to secure firearms displayed during a gun show by rendering them
safe and unfireable through the use of a plastic cable tie or other lockable
mechanical device.
   F.   Fail to keep any firearms in a locked container during the time that
they are not being displayed during a gun show.
   G.   Fail to require a private citizen to display a FOID card prior to
allowing the buyer to handle a firearm.
   H.   Fail to provide the Chief of Public Safety with information required by
law for each firearm sought to be sold or transferred at the end of each day
during a gun show.
   I.   Violate the exposition center rules governing conduct of the gun show.
(Ord. 2012-10-10L, 10-10-2012)
4-10-6: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The Chief of Public Safety may revoke a gun show permit for any violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-10-10L, 10-10-2012)
4-10-7: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
immediate revocation of the person’s gun show permit and/or a fine of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) for each offense. Every purchase, sale or gift of any weapon
mentioned in this chapter shall be deemed as a separate offense.
(Ord. 2012-10-10L, 10-10-2012)
4-10-8: COOK COUNTY REGULATIONS DO NOT APPLY:
Articles I through IV, inclusive, of the Cook County deadly weapons dealer
control ordinance shall not apply within the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 2012-10-10L, 10-10-2012)
CHAPTER 11: CONTRACTORS
ARTICLE A: BUILDING TRADE CONTRACTORS
Section
4-11A-1:   License Required
4-11A-2:   Application For License; Ineligibility
4-11A-3:   License Fee
4-11A-4:   Bond Requirements
4-11A-5:   Term Of License; Expiration
4-11A-6:   Nontransferability Of License
4-11A-7:   Exemptions From Provisions
4-11A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except as set forth in section 4-11A-7 of this chapter, no person, firm or
corporation shall engage in, conduct or carry on the business of any
construction work, or any building or structure remodeling or rehabilitation
work including, but not limited to carpentry, roofing, and heating,
ventilating, air conditioning and electrical work, including installing or
altering electrical equipment without first obtaining a building trade license
issued by the Health and Licensing Department of the Village.
(Ord. 2003-12-3G, 12-3-2003)
4-11A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INELIGIBILITY:
Each application for a building trade license shall state: a) the name,
address, and telephone number of the applicant; and b) whether the applicant
has been issued any business or professional licenses by an agency of the State
of Illinois and/or by any other unit of local government and shall contain any
other information requested by the Village Director of Building and Code
Enforcement and the Director of the Health and Licensing Department. No license
shall be issued to an applicant unless the applicant demonstrates that he is in
full compliance with any and all applicable licensing requirements of the State
of Illinois and any other governmental body which has jurisdiction over work
being performed by the applicant within the Village.
(Ord. 93-4-7K, 4-7-1993)
4-11A-3: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for each building trade license issued to a licensee who performs work
or provides services in the Village shall be as set forth in the Village Fee
Schedule, subsection 3-10-1B of this Code.
(Ord. 2003-12-3G, 12-3-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
4-11A-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
No person, firm or corporation required to have a building trade license under
the provisions of section
4-11A-1 of this article shall perform any construction work or any building or
structure remodeling or rehabilitation work where the cost of such work exceeds
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00), unless and until such person,
firm or corporation has filed with the Village a surety bond in the amount of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) issued by a surety company authorized to do
business in the State of Illinois, which is conditioned for the payment of any
loss, damage or injury resulting to persons or property for the performance of
construction, or building, remodeling, or rehabilitation work by the person,
firm or corporation or the failure of the person, firm or corporation to either
complete such work in a timely manner or in compliance with all applicable
codes, rules and regulations. The form of the bond shall be subject to the
approval of the Village.
(Ord. 93-5-5J, 5-5-1993)
4-11A-5: TERM OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION:
No building trade license shall be granted for a period longer than one year,
and every license shall expire on the December 31 following the date of its
issuance.
(Ord. 2003-12-3G, 12-3-2003)
4-11A-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A building trade license is nontransferable.
(Ord. 93-4-7K, 4-7-1993)
4-11A-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this article including, but not limited to, the requirement
that a business trade license be obtained, shall not apply to the following:
(Ord. 2003-12-3G, 12-3-2003)
   A.   Plumbers and plumbing contractors, as defined in section 2 of the
Illinois Plumbing Licensing Law (225 ILCS 320/2).
(Ord. 2003-12-3G, 12-3-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Electrical contractors as defined in section 11-33-1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code who have registered with or who are licensed by another
municipality.
   C.   Land surveyors.
   D.   Architects licensed by the State of Illinois.
   E.   Engineers licensed by the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2003-12-3G, 12-3-2003)
   F.   Locksmiths and private alarm contractors, as defined in section 5-10 of
the Illinois Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint,
Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004 (225 ILCS 447/5-10).
(Ord. 2003-12-3G, 12-3-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
   G.   Water well pump installation contractors and water well and pump
installation contractors as defined in section 2 of the Illinois Water Well and
Pump Installation Contractors License Act (225 ILCS 345/2).
(Ord. 2003-12-3G,12-3-2003)
CHAPTER 12: EXTERMINATORS
Section
4-12-1:   Definition
4-12-2:   License Required
4-12-3:   Application For License; Qualifications Of Applicant
4-12-4:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-12-5:   Employee Insurance Required
4-12-6:   Sale Or Providing Hydrocyanic Acid Gas
4-12-7:   Fumigation Procedures
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-12-1: DEFINITION:
The term “extermination by fumigation”, as used in this chapter, is hereby
defined to mean the use of hydrocyanic acid gas, cyanogen, chloropicrin, methyl
bromide, or any other poisonous, noxious, or dangerous gases or fumes specified
by the Health and Licensing Department as liable to affect human beings by
causing severe sickness or death, for the extermination by fumigation of
household insects, vermin, rats, or other household pests in any place in the
Village; provided, however, that it shall not apply to the fumigation of
greenhouses, grain elevators, or cereal or tobacco warehouses.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-12-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of extermination by fumigation without a
license to so do.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-12-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
An application for the license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses. In addition,
the applicant shall file with the Village a sworn statement listing the
training and experience tending to qualify the applicant for the performance of
fumigating with hydrocyanic acid gas and other dangerous and noxious gases. In
the case of firms or corporations, said statement shall cover the training and
experience of the responsible officers.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-12-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall make a thorough
investigation of the training, experience, general qualifications, character,
and reputation of the applicants for licenses to exterminate by fumigation with
poisonous or noxious gases.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-12-5: EMPLOYEE INSURANCE REQUIRED:
The employees of the licensee engaged in fumigation shall be covered by
liability insurance providing for indemnification in case of bodily injury,
sickness, or death, in accordance with the Illinois Workers’ Compensation Act
(820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-12-6: SALE OR PROVIDING HYDROCYANIC ACID GAS:
No person shall sell or give away material for the purpose of fumigating
premises with hydrocyanic acid gas, except to a person licensed as herein
provided, unless a signed statement in writing is first obtained from the buyer
or recipient of the material to the effect that it will not be used for the
purpose of fumigating any place of domestic habitation or any building or
portion thereof as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-12-7: FUMIGATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Permit Requirements: It shall be the duty of every person licensed
under this chapter intending to generate or release hydrocyanic acid gas or
other dangerous gases or fumes for fumigation purposes, before starting such
generation or release, to file written notice with the Director of Building and
Code Enforcement, giving the location of the building or enclosed space to be
fumigated, and to secure from the Director a permit, which shall state the day
and hour when the work will be performed. Each application for such permit
shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule,
subsection
3-10-1B of this Code. The permit shall be kept on the premises to be fumigated.
The time of the permit may be extended if the applicant is unable to perform
the work on the hour and day set forth in the permit, and so notifies the
Director of Building and Code Enforcement sixteen (16) hours prior to the time
set forth in the permit.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Notice To Vacate Premises: When hydrocyanic gas or other dangerous
gases or fumes are used for exterminating purposes, before fumigation, the
operator shall personally inspect the premises, and shall serve notice, over
his signature, upon all responsible occupants of each room or apartment within
the danger area, stating the danger of the process and the precautions to be
observed, designating the rooms or apartments which must be vacated and
indicating the time when the gas is to be generated or liberated. The form of
this notice shall be approved by the Health and Licensing Department. Every
room in the danger area shall be vacated. In the case of a building in which
there is an inner court, vent shaft, or light well, or a lot line court with a
party wall, or in the case of two (2) buildings having adjacent lot line
courts, upon which any room being gassed opens, every room with windows or
other apertures opening to such inner or lot line courts, vent shafts, or light
wells shall be vacated and securely locked. Where the walls of any adjoining
buildings are located within ten feet (10') of the rooms or apartments being
gassed, the operator shall notify, over his signature, all responsible
occupants of rooms or apartments with window openings in such walls, that such
windows as are directly opposite or above the area of the adjoining building
which is under gas, must remain closed, or the rooms vacated during the time
the building gassed is being flushed or aired. All rooms or apartments ordered
vacated, but not under gas, shall be well ventilated during the process by
keeping the windows of the rooms or apartments open. Provided, however, that
such vacation of premises and notification of occupants shall not be necessary
where the fumigation is done in special rooms or vaults in furniture stores,
secondhand stores, or household goods warehouses, or vaults in candy and other
food processing plants, when such special rooms or vaults are approved as to
their location, construction, and gas-tightness by the Health and Licensing
Department and a provision is made for the airing of such vaults so as to allow
the escape of gases at such a location where it is not dangerous by a system of
ducts and ventilation approved by the Health and Licensing Department.
   C.   Rooms Sealed: Before fumigating with hydrocyanic acid gas or other
dangerous gases or fumes, the operator shall securely seal all cracks, holes,
crevices, openings, and apertures in walls, ceilings, and floors in such a way
as to confine the gas to the premises intended to be fumigated.
   D.   Inspection Of Rooms And Apartments; Locking And Placarding Required:
Before fumigation, the operator shall personally inspect all rooms and
apartments ordered vacated under subsection C of this section, and be assured
that they are unoccupied by persons or domestic animals, after which all doors
to all rooms or apartments, excepting one exit door to the rooms or apartments
to be gassed, shall be securely locked. In addition, such windows or other wall
openings as might possibly be used to gain entrance shall be locked or barred
in such a way as to prevent entrance while still permitting thorough airing of
the room. Immediately upon generating or liberating the gas, the door through
which the operator leaves shall be securely locked and sealed, and all keys
obtainable to all rooms or apartments ordered vacated shall be retained by the
operator until all danger is passed. As an additional precaution, all rooms and
apartments vacated shall be placarded.
   E.   Guards: Whenever hydrocyanic acid or other dangerous gases or fumes are
generated or liberated in any room or portion of a structure in the Village, a
sufficient number of capable, alert watchmen shall remain on duty at the
entrance or entrances to the room, building, or enclosed space vacated for
gassing, to prevent people from entering while gas is present and for two (2)
hours after the room or area gassed is open for airing.
   F.   Removal Of Food:
      1.   Before fumigation, the operator shall see that all ice, food and
drink are removed from the rooms ordered vacated; except, that such food or
drink, as is in sealed airtight containers need not be removed. Provided, that
in industrial fumigations such as flour mills, cereal mills, food warehouses,
macaroni plants, candy manufacturing plants, cheese processing plants, etc.,
where fumigation is for the purpose of destroying vermin or insect pests
infesting these foodstuffs, only liquid fats, oils and moist foodstuffs not
sealed in airtight containers need be removed. The fumigator shall state in the
application for a permit to fumigate foodstuffs the amount of moisture content
of the various foods it is wished to fumigate. No fumigated food shall be sold
or shipped until it has been aerated by every reasonable means, including the
use of fans wherever indicated, for a period not less than thirty six (36)
hours following fumigation and suitable tests approved by the Health and
Licensing Department of the air immediately around it are negative for the
fumigant used.
      2.   An impermeable receptacle for containing the ingredients is required
in fumigating with hydrocyanic acid or other dangerous gases.
   G.   Spilling Cyanide: No cyanic crystals shall be dropped on the floor or
left exposed where people or domestic animals may come in contact with them in
fumigating with hydrocyanic acid or other dangerous gases.
   H.   Opening Rooms After Fumigation:
      1.   At the conclusion of the gassing process in fumigation, it shall be
the duty of the operator to throw open doors and windows of the premises, until
all rooms have been opened for free access of air.
      2.   No person other than the operator shall be permitted to enter the
premises until all traces of the gas have disappeared, and in no case shall the
occupants of the rooms or areas gassed be permitted to enter until twelve (12)
hours after airing.
      3.   The operator or watchmen shall keep all persons away from the doors
and windows of the premises for two (2) hours after airing. Infants and
children under six (6) years of age shall not be permitted to re-enter the
premises until eighteen (18) hours after the rooms or apartments are opened for
airing. The licensee shall inform all occupants having children of this
provision in writing over his signature.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 13: WASTE DISPOSAL AND INCINERATOR BUSINESS
Section
4-13-1:   Application For License
4-13-2:   Bond Requirements
4-13-3:   Inspections
4-13-4:   License Required
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-13-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a waste disposal and incinerator business license shall be made
in conformance with the general requirements of this title pertaining to
applications for licenses.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-13-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Before obtaining the license required by this chapter, the applicant shall
execute a bond to the Village in an amount as required by the Village, with
surety to be approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees,
conditioned that the licensee will comply with this Code, the ordinances and
the regulations of the Village and the laws of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-13-3: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Health and Licensing Department to periodically,
and at least annually, inspect all establishments licensed under this chapter
to ensure that no danger of fire exists, that sanitary conditions are
maintained, that all applicable pollution standards are being satisfied, and
that all other provisions of this Code and State law are satisfied.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-13-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of waste disposal and incinerator,
without first obtaining a license for such business as provided in this
chapter.
CHAPTER 14:  AUCTIONEERS
Section
4-14-1:   Definition
4-14-2:   License Required
4-14-3:   Single Location
4-14-4:   Daily License
4-14-5:   Terms Of Sales
4-14-6:   Right Of Return
4-14-7:   Prohibited Acts
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-14-1: DEFINITION:
The term “auctioneer”, as used in this chapter, shall mean any person who sells
real or personal property at public or private auction for another or for
himself. Any person who sells his own real or personal property at a public or
private auction is an “auctioneer”.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-14-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell or attempt to sell at public or private auction any real
or personal property of any kind whatsoever (except under and by virtue of
legal process or under and by virtue of a mortgage) without first having
obtained a license as an auctioneer.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-14-3: SINGLE LOCATION:
No licensed auctioneer shall sell or offer for sale at public auction any real
or personal property at or in any place, house, store, or building other than
the place, house, store, or building designated in his license, except as
provided in section
4-14-4 of this chapter.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-14-4: DAILY LICENSE:
Licensed auctioneers may obtain daily licenses to conduct auctions at locations
other than the premises licensed under their annual license when the goods to
be auctioned are owned by the owner or occupant of the premises where the
auction will be held. A daily auction license shall not be issued for the same
premises for more than seven (7) days in any one calendar year.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-14-5: TERMS OF SALES:
It shall be the duty of every auctioneer, before beginning any auction sale of
real or personal property of any kind whatsoever, to state fully the terms and
conditions upon which the sale will be made and to announce to the persons
present the character, quality, and description of the property offered for
sale.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-14-6: RIGHT OF RETURN:
The purchaser at an auction sale of any watch, plate or jewelry shall have the
right to return it to the auctioneer at any time within five (5) days from the
day of sale if the watch, plate or jewelry is not of the quality represented to
him, and the auctioneer shall return to the purchaser the price of the article.
No auctioneer shall close his office at any time for the purpose of avoiding an
offer to return any such article so sold, and the violation of this provision
shall be cause for the revocation of the license of the auctioneer.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-14-7: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   False Representations: No auctioneer or person being present when any
real or personal property is offered for sale shall knowingly, with intent to
induce any person to purchase the same or any part thereof, make any false
representation or statement as to the ownership of, or the character or quality
of, the property so offered for sale, or as to the poverty or circumstances of
the owner or pretended owner of such property; and if such false representation
is made by the auctioneer or by any other person with such auctioneer’s
knowledge and consent or connivance, the license of such auctioneer shall be
revoked.
   B.   Substitutions: No auctioneer shall exhibit and offer for sale at
auction any article, and induce its purchase by any bidder, and then afterward
substitute any article in lieu of that offered to and purchased by the bidder.
   C.   Fictitious Bidding: Any auctioneer who shall procure any person to make
a fictitious bid at any auction sale of real or personal property, or who shall
conspire with any person to make a fictitious bid at any such auction sale, or
any auctioneer who shall himself fictitiously raise any bids in any such
auction sale shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the first offense, and shall,
on conviction thereof for a second or subsequent offense, be fined the sum of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for such offense, and upon conviction for
such second offense, the license of such auctioneer shall be revoked.
   D.   Sales On Public Ways: No real or personal property shall be sold at
auction, or exposed for sale, by any auctioneer in any public way or public
place in the Village.
   E.   Attracting Attention: No bellman or crier, nor any drum, fife, or other
instrument of music, nor any show signal or other means of attracting the
attention of the public, other than a sign or flag, shall be employed or
permitted to be used in connection with any auction sale at or near any place
of such sale or at or near any auction room.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 15: MOTOR VEHICLE AND TRAVEL RELATED BUSINESSES
ARTICLE A: MOTOR VEHICLE SALES, REPAIR, WASHING
AND PARTS SALES
Section
4-15A-1:   Definitions
4-15A-2:   License Required
4-15A-3:   Application For License
4-15A-4:   Maintenance Of Business
4-15A-5:   Additional Regulations For Repair Shops And Miscellaneous Businesses
4-15A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
MOTOR VEHICLE: All species of self-propelled vehicles operated by gasoline or
any kind of oil, steam, electricity, alcohol or other substance or method that
are operated on the public ways of the Village, otherwise than on rails.
MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS SHOP: Any business conducted in the Village in which new or
used parts and accessories for motor vehicles are sold or offered for sale at
retail or wholesale.
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR SHOP. Any building, structure, premises, enclosure or
other place in the Village where the business of repairing motor vehicles or
any component part thereof, or the business of replacing parts or adding parts
to motor vehicles; or the business of greasing, painting, or refinishing motor
vehicles is conducted or operated.
MOTOR VEHICLE SALES DEALERSHIP. Any business conducted in the Village in which
new or used motor vehicles are sold or offered for sale at wholesale or retail.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle sales dealership, a motor vehicle
repair shop, or motor vehicle parts shop in the Village without first having
obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a license under this article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this title relating to the issuance of
licenses. Any establishment in the Village which conducts two (2) or more of
the businesses which require a license under this article shall be required to
obtain only one license and shall pay the highest license fee of those
applicable (see subsection 3-10-1B of this Code for license fees).
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15A-4: MAINTENANCE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   No person who is the owner, proprietor, lessee, manager or
superintendent of any sales room, shop, garage or other place where persons are
employed for wages in and about motor vehicles shall cause, permit or allow the
same or any portion of such salesroom, shop, garage or other place to be
overcrowded, crowded or inadequate, faulty or insufficient in respect to light,
ventilation, heat and cleanliness. Fresh air shall be supplied by ventilation
in accordance with the building regulations of this Code.
   B.   All such places of employment or service shall be kept in a clean
condition, free from the effluvia of a sewer, drain, or other nuisance; also,
free as far as practicable from all gases, vapors, dust or other impurities
generated by manufacturing processes or the operation of motors or other
machinery, or otherwise, which are injurious to health.
   C.   Sufficient and separate water closets shall be provided for male and
female employees, and such water closet compartments shall be properly
ventilated.
   D.   Lockers for employee clothing shall be of metal.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15A-5: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR REPAIR SHOPS AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES:
   A.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   No person shall locate, build, construct or maintain any motor
vehicle repair shop within two hundred feet (200') of any building used for and
as a hospital, church, or school, or the grounds thereof, or locate, build,
construct or maintain any repair shop in the Village in any block in which two-
thirds (2/3) of the buildings on both sides of the street are used exclusively
for residence purposes, or within one hundred feet (100') of any such block,
without the written consent of the majority of the property owners, according
to the frontage on both sides of the street.
      2.   Written consent shall be obtained and filed with the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department before any license shall be issued; provided,
however, that in determining whether two-thirds (2/3) of the buildings on both
sides of the street are used exclusively for residence purposes, and any
building fronting upon another street and located upon a corner shall not be
considered.
      3.   The word “block”, as used in this subsection, shall not be held to
mean a square, but to embrace only that part of the street in question which
lies between the two (2) nearest intersecting streets, one on either side of
the lot on which such repair shop is to be located, built, constructed or
maintained.
   B.   Building And Fire Regulations: The construction of motor vehicle repair
shops shall be made and maintained in accordance with the building regulations
of this Code; shall be kept clean and free from flammable wastes; and shall be
conducted and operated in accordance with the fire regulations of this Code.
   C.   Changing Vehicle Identification Marks: It shall be unlawful for any
person to change the identification marks on the engine of any car or
automobile in any motor vehicle repair shop. It shall also be unlawful to
change the license tags on such cars except in accordance with the register of
motor vehicles kept by the Secretary of State of Illinois.
   D.   Inspections: The Department of Public Safety and Building and Code
Enforcement Department shall inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as they
deem necessary, every motor vehicle repair shop in the Village to determine
whether there is compliance with all applicable provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE B: CAR WASHES
Section
4-15B-1:   Definition
4-15B-2:   License Required
4-15B-3:   Building, Electrical And Fire Regulations
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-15B-1: DEFINITION:
The term “car wash”, as used/in this article, means the carrying on of the
business of washing, polishing or cleaning motor vehicles or trailers for a fee
or charge or other consideration, within a building or structure, except where
such cleaning or washing is incidental to the operation of a garage or filling
station.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall operate a car wash without first having
obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15B-3: BUILDING, ELECTRICAL AND FIRE REGULATIONS:
   A.   The construction of car washes and car washing equipment shall conform
to the Building, Electrical and Fire Codes of the Village.
   B.   Gasoline, benzine, naphtha and similar flammable liquids shall not be
used for washing and cleaning purposes.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE C: PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLES
Section
4-15C-1:   Definitions
4-15C-2:   Service Regulations Generally
4-15C-3:   Enforcement Officials; Powers And Duties
4-15C-4:   Licenses Required; Exemption And Term
4-15C-5:   Applications For Taxicab Operator And Livery Service Licenses
Operator Licenses
4-15C-6:   Public Convenience And Necessity For Taxicab Service
4-15C-7:   Taxicab Service And Livery Service
4-15C-8:   Vehicle Regulations
4-15C-8-1:   Taxicab Vehicles
4-15C-8-2:   Livery Vehicles
4-15C-8-3:   Age, Condition And Type Of Vehicles
4-15C-9:   Chauffeurs
4-15C-9-1:   Licensing Provisions
4-15C-9-2:   Random Controlled Substance Testing Of Licensees
4-15C-10:   Operation Of Public Passenger Vehicles
4-15C-11:   Taxicab Stands
4-15C-12:   Taximeters
4-15C-13:   Rates Of Fare
4-15C-14:   Insurance Requirements
4-15C-15:   Public Passenger Vehicle Review Board
4-15C-16:   Immediate Removal From Service
4-15C-17:   Recordkeeping
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code, entry reading “taxicabs and limousines”, entry reading
“chauffeur’s license”, for license fees
4-15C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
LICENSE YEAR: December 1 through November 30 of each year.
LIVERY OPERATOR’S LICENSE: A license issued to the owner of a livery service
that is eligible to operate livery vehicles or limousines in the Village.
LIVERY VEHICLE: Any public passenger vehicle transporting passengers for hire
on a pre-arranged contract, trip, or hourly basis. Also referred to as
“limousine”.
LIVERY VEHICLE LICENSE: A license issued for a public passenger vehicle which
allows the vehicle to be operated as a limousine within the Village.
OWNER: Any person having the use or control of one or more taxicabs or livery
vehicles as herein defined.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: Taxicabs and livery vehicles used for transportation
of passengers for hire.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE LICENSE: A taxicab vehicle license or a livery vehicle
license which has been issued pursuant to the provisions of this article.
ROSEMONT CHAUFFEUR’S LICENSE OR CHAUFFEUR’S LICENSE: A license which is issued
to an individual and which authorizes the individual to operate a taxicab or
limousine within the Village.
SAFETY INSPECTION STATION: Official State of Illinois testing station or such
other facility designated by the Chief of Public Safety to conduct the safety
inspections required or provided for by this article.
TAXICAB: Any public passenger vehicle equipped with a taximeter and used for
the carriage of passengers for hire to or from destinations as directed by such
passenger(s) and any vehicle registered as a taxicab by the Secretary of State.
A TAXICAB also includes a public passenger vehicle equipped with a taximeter
that also has the ability to use an application-based ride share program to
determine the amount charged.
TAXICAB OPERATOR’S LICENSE: A license issued to the owner of a taxicab service
that is eligible to operate taxicabs in the Village.
TAXICAB VEHICLE LICENSE: A license issued for a public passenger vehicle which
allows the vehicle to be operated as a taxicab within the Village.
TAXIMETER: Any mechanical or electrical device attached to a taxicab which
records and indicates a charge or fare in dollars and cents measured by
distance traveled or waiting time, or both.
TAXIMETER TESTING CENTER: A taximeter service center designated by the Chief of
Public Safety to conduct testing, certification and sealing of taximeters
required by this article.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997; amd. Ord. 2019-12-11, 12-11-2019; Ord. 2022-10-10C,
10-10-2022)
4-15C-2: SERVICE REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
Every public passenger vehicle is required to furnish clean, comfortable, and
safe service. Taxicabs shall provide service at rates not to exceed the rates
established in section
4-15C-13 of this article. Limousines shall provide service at reasonable rates.
All public passenger vehicles shall be operated in accordance with this article
and all other applicable statutes ordinances, codes, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-3: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The licensing of taxicab operators, livery operators and public
passenger vehicles, the examination of applicants for chauffeur’s licenses and
the issuance of chauffeur’s licenses to operate said vehicles shall be under
the control and supervision of the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department. The enforcement of the provisions of this article shall be under
the control and supervision of the Superintendent of Public Safety, including
the making of any vehicle and taximeter inspections required or provided by
this article.
   B.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall have the power to appoint
such persons as he may deem necessary to enforce the provisions of this article
and to perform any inspections or other duties which are assigned to him by
this article.
   C.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall have the
authority to appoint such persons as he may deem necessary to serve as a
License Officer pursuant to the provisions of this article and to perform the
duties that are under the control and supervision of the Director.
   D.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall have the
authority to establish fees for the licenses to be issued pursuant to this
article and for the inspections that are required or provided for under this
article. The amount of any fee established by the Director shall be equivalent
to or based upon the costs incurred by the Village in enforcing the provisions
of this article including, but not limited to, the costs of issuing licenses
and conducting examinations and inspections.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-4: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTION AND TERM:
   A.   Taxicab Service: It shall be unlawful for any person to own or operate
a taxicab service within the corporate limits of the Village without having
first obtained a taxicab operator’s license from the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department. Each taxicab operator’s license shall specify the maximum
number of taxicabs that may be operated by the taxicab service. It shall be
unlawful for any person who has been issued a taxicab operator’s license to
operate more taxicabs than the maximum number authorized by the license.
   B.   Livery Service: It shall be unlawful for any person to own or operate a
livery service within the corporate limits of the Village without having first
obtained a livery service operator’s license from the Director of the Health
and Licensing Department.
   C.   Taxicab Vehicle: It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to solicit
business, to accept for transportation any passengers within the Village
boundaries, or to otherwise operate as a taxicab within the Village unless the
vehicle has been issued a valid Village taxicab vehicle license. Any vehicle
which is operated in violation of this subsection shall be subject to immediate
removal from service.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
   D.   Livery Vehicle Registration And License:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to solicit business, or to
accept for transportation any passenger, or otherwise operate as a livery
vehicle within the Village, unless the vehicle has been issued “livery vehicle”
registration plates by the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of
Illinois, which plates have an “LY” suffix as set forth in 92 Illinois
Administrative Code section 1010.430.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to solicit business, or to
accept for transportation any passenger, or otherwise operate as a livery
vehicle within the Village, unless either: the vehicle has been issued a valid
Village livery vehicle license; or b) arrangements for the transportation of
the passenger were made in advance by the passenger or someone acting on his
behalf.
      3.   Any vehicle which is operated in violation of this subsection shall
be subject to immediate removal from service.
(Ord. 98-9-2D, 9-2-1998)
   E.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   The provisions of this article shall not prevent taxicabs licensed
by other municipalities from entering the Village for the purpose depositing
passengers who were legally picked up outside the Village.
      2.   This article shall not prevent limousines licensed by other
municipalities from entering the Village for the purpose depositing passengers
who are legally picked up outside the Village.
      3.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to taxicabs and
limousines which do not stop within the Village for the purpose of picking up
or depositing passengers.
   F.   Chauffeur’s License: Except as provided in subsections D and E of this
section, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a taxicab or
limousine within the Village unless such person currently holds a valid
Rosemont chauffeur’s license. Any taxicab or limousine which is being operated
by a person who does not hold a valid Rosemont chauffeur’s license shall be
subject to immediate removal from service.
   G.   Term Of License: All licenses provided in this article shall be valid
only for the license year for which or during which the license is issued.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
   H.   Number Of Licenses: There shall be no more than sixty (60) taxicab
licenses issued by the Village. No single license holder shall have more than
thirty (30) licenses. Each holder of more than twenty (20) licenses shall, at
their request, be allowed to have up to five (5) inactive licenses. The holder
of an inactive license shall only be required to pay the license fee for an
inactive license at the time it is activated. Each licensed taxicab shall at
all times be in compliance with all Village regulations and safety requirements
applicable to taxicabs. The annual fee for a taxicab license shall be the fee
set forth in Village’s schedule of fees.
(Ord. 2019-12-11, 12-11-2019)
4-15C-5: APPLICATIONS FOR TAXICAB OPERATOR AND LIVERY SERVICE OPERATOR
LICENSES:
Application for a taxicab operator’s license or a livery service operator’s
license shall be made by the owner upon forms furnished by the Village. Such
application shall contain the full name and address of the licensee. The
Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall not issue a taxicab
operator’s license unless the Village President has determined that the public
safety and convenience requires the operation of the taxicab service to be
licensed.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-6: PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY FOR TAXICAB SERVICE:
   A.   No taxicab operator’s license shall be issued unless the Village
President after a hearing, shall, by resolution, declare that public
convenience and necessity require the proposed service for which application
for a license is made.
   B.   In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the
issuance of taxicab operator’s license, the Village President shall take into
consideration the following:
      1.   Whether the demands of public convenience and necessity require the
proposed or additional service within the Village.
      2.   The financial responsibility of the applicant, kind, number, type of
equipment and color scheme to be used by the applicant.
      3.   The increased traffic congestion which may result.
      4.   Whether the safe use of the streets by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic will be affected by the granting of such additional license.
      5.   Any other relevant facts that the Village President may deem
advisable and necessary.
   C.   No such declaration of public convenience and necessity shall be
necessary for the renewal of a taxicab operator’s license for the maximum
number of vehicles for which the applicant has already received declaration of
public convenience and necessity.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-7: TAXICAB SERVICE AND LIVERY SERVICE:
   A.   Every taxicab service and every livery service which is licensed by the
Village shall operate public passenger vehicles regularly in the Village so as
to meet the public demand for passenger service. Each service shall maintain a
central place of business open twenty four (24) hours a day for receiving calls
and dispatching vehicles.
   B.   Every taxicab service and every livery service which is licensed by the
Village shall answer all calls received for service within the Village as soon
as possible. If service cannot be rendered within a reasonable time, each
service will notify the customer of such and give the reason(s) for the delay.
It shall be unlawful for any taxicab service or livery service which is
licensed by the Village to refuse to accept a request for service anywhere
within the Village at any time vehicles are available to provide the service.
   C.   It is unlawful for any taxicab service or livery service which is
licensed by the Village to knowingly encourage or allow a vehicle to operate as
a taxicab or limousine without having first obtained the appropriate type of
public passenger vehicle license. It is unlawful for any taxicab service or
livery service which is licensed by the Village to knowingly encourage or allow
a person to operate a taxicab or limousine in violation of the provisions of
this article.
   D.   If a taxicab service or a livery service which is licensed by the
Village is completely abandoned for ten (10) consecutive days or more, the
Public Passenger Vehicle Review Board will conduct a hearing after giving five
(5) days’ notice to the owner or operator of such service. After the hearing,
the Review Board shall make a recommendation to the Village President as to
whether the taxicab operator’s or livery service operator’s license should be
revoked.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-8: VEHICLE REGULATIONS:
4-15C-8-1: TAXICAB VEHICLES:
   A.   Licenses And Inspections:
      1.   Application for a taxicab vehicle license shall be made by the owner
of the vehicle upon forms furnished by the Village. Such application shall
identify the vehicle owner and contain a complete description of the vehicle
including make, model, year, color, State registration number, vehicle
identification number, cab company name, and company assigned vehicle number.
Also required are copies of vehicle registration card and documentation
confirming that there has been compliance with the insurance requirements of
section
4-15C-14 of this article.
      2.   No taxicab vehicle license shall be issued for any vehicle that is
not owned or affiliated with a taxicab service which has been licensed by the
Village and for which a declaration of public convenience and service has been
issued.
      3.   No taxicab shall be licensed until it has been thoroughly and
carefully examined at a safety inspection station and found to be in safe
condition for passengers, of good appearance, and well painted.
      4.   Taxicabs shall be subject to re-inspections at any time. All
taxicabs shall be thoroughly inspected no less than two (2) times annually to
determine compliance with subsections B and C of this section. The
Superintendent of Public Safety or his designee shall determine the scope of
each inspection, however, the inspection must include a thorough examination of
the vehicle's electrical system, brakes, transmission, tires, exhaust system
and engine.
      5.   Any time a taxicab is involved in an accident that causes damage
which may affect the safety of prospective passengers, it must be taken out of
service immediately and repaired. Before such vehicle may be returned to
service, it must be re-inspected and certified at a safety inspection station.
      6.   The Superintendent of Public Safety and his designees shall have the
authority to immediately remove from service any taxicab which has been
designated unfit for service or unsafe.
      7.   The Superintendent of Public Safety may require a taxicab to be re-
inspected as a result of a complaint by any person, or if the Superintendent
has reason to believe that the condition of the taxicab may pose a threat to
the safety of its passengers, or has reason to believe that the taxicab is not
in compliance with the provisions of this article.
      8.   Upon passing all test categories at an approved safety testing
station, the taxicab will be issued a safety inspection sticker to indicate
that it has been deemed street worthy. Said sticker must be prominently
displayed in the right lower corner of the vehicle's windshield.
      9.   Any taxicab that does not pass a safety inspection for any reason
shall be immediately put out of service until the taxicab passes the safety
inspection.
      10.   It is unlawful for any taxicab for which a taxicab vehicle license
has been issued by the Village to operate without a valid safety inspection
sticker being displayed in the lower right corner of the vehicle's windshield.
      11.   The Superintendent may conduct unannounced spot checks of the
safety inspection station to ensure compliance with inspection procedures and
requirements. He will also investigate any allegations of misconduct by the
inspection station or its employees. If the inspection station or its employees
are not complying with the requirements of this article, the Superintendent may
suspend or revoke the designation of the inspection station as an authorized
safety inspection station for purposes of this article.
      12.   A taxicab which fails to pass a safety inspection, fails to appear
for a safety inspection when directed to do so or otherwise is in violation of
any provision of this section may be immediately removed from service.
      13.   Safety inspection stickers are not transferable from one vehicle to
another. A safety inspection sticker shall not be affixed to any vehicle other
than the vehicle for which the sticker was originally issued.
      14.   When a taxicab is removed from service by the owner, the taxicab
vehicle license issued to that vehicle must be immediately surrendered to the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department.
      15.   a.   The owner of any vehicle for which a Village taxicab vehicle
license has been issued must keep thorough and complete records relating to the
maintenance of the vehicle and make such records available, upon request, to
the Superintendent of Public Safety or his designee. The maintenance records
shall contain the following information:
            (1)   The type of maintenance work performed.
            (2)   The location where the maintenance work was performed.
            (3)   The date the maintenance work was performed.
            (4)   The mileage of the vehicle when the maintenance work was
performed.
            (5)   The amount paid by the owner for the maintenance work.
         b.   The owner must also maintain for a period of not less than two
(2) years all work orders, receipts and other documents relating to any
maintenance work performed on the vehicle.
   B.   License Sticker And Display:
      1.   A taxicab vehicle license issued by the Village shall be in the form
of an adhesive sticker which shall contain the official license number of the
public passenger vehicle.
      2.   Taxicab vehicle licenses shall be of a distinctly different color
and/or design every year. Taxicab vehicle licenses must be affixed to the lower
right portion of the windshield of the vehicle for which the license has been
issued.
      3.   A taxicab vehicle sticker is not transferable to any vehicle other
than the vehicle for which it has been issued.
   C.   Identification:
      1.   Every taxicab licensed in the Village shall bear on both sides of
the vehicle, in a color contrasting to that of the vehicle itself, the name and
phone number of the company which it serves. The lettering shall be a minimum
of two inches (2") in height and one-fourth inch (1/4") brush stroke.
      2.   The identification number assigned to the taxicab by the company
shall be affixed to the exterior of the vehicle on each front fender and trunk.
These letters must be a minimum of three inches (3") in height and one-fourth
inch (1/4") brush stroke.
      3.   A taxicab may be painted any color provided that the identifying
information required by subsections C1 and C2 must at all times be in a
contrasting color that is determined by the Superintendent/Director of Public
Safety to make the identifying information clearly visible.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997; amd. Ord. 98-9-2D, 9-2-1998; Ord. 2022-10-10C, 10-10-
2022)
4-15C-8-2: LIVERY VEHICLES:
   A.   Licenses And Inspections:
      1.   Application for a livery vehicle license shall be made by the owner
of the vehicle upon forms furnished by the Village. Such application shall
identify the vehicle owner and contain a complete description of the vehicle
including make, model, year, color, State registration number, vehicle
identification number, livery company name, and company assigned vehicle
number. Also required are copies of the vehicle registration card and the
document confirming that there has been compliance with the insurance
requirements of section
4-15C-14 of this article.
      2.   No livery vehicle license shall be issued for any vehicle which is
not owned or affiliated with a livery service which has been licensed by the
Village.
      3.   No livery vehicle shall be licensed until it has been thoroughly and
carefully examined at a safety inspection station and found to be in safe
condition for passengers, of good appearance, and well painted.
      4.   Livery vehicles shall also be subject to re-inspections at any time.
All livery vehicles will be inspected no less than two (2) times annually.
      5.   Any time a livery vehicle is involved in an accident that causes
damage which may affect the safety of prospective passengers, it must be taken
out of service immediately and repaired. Before such vehicle may be returned to
service, it must be re-inspected and certified at a safety inspection station.
      6.   The Superintendent of Public Safety and his designees shall have the
authority to immediately remove from service any livery vehicle which has been
designated unfit for service or unsafe.
      7.   The Superintendent of Public Safety may require a livery vehicle to
be re-inspected as a result of a complaint by any person, or if the
Superintendent has reason to believe that the condition of the livery vehicle
may pose a threat to the safety of its passengers, or has reason to believe
that the livery vehicle is not in compliance with the provisions of this
article.
      8.   Upon passing all test categories at an approved safety testing
station, the livery vehicle will be issued a safety inspection sticker to
indicate that it has been deemed street worthy. Said sticker must be
prominently displayed in the right lower corner of the vehicle’s windshield.
      9.   Any livery vehicle that does not pass a safety inspection for any
reason shall be immediately put out of service until the livery vehicle passes
the safety inspection.
      10.   It is unlawful for any livery vehicle for which a livery vehicle
license has been issued by the Village to operate without a valid safety
inspection sticker displayed in the lower right corner of the vehicle’s
windshield.
      11.   A livery vehicle which fails to pass a safety inspection, fails to
appear for a safety inspection when directed to do so, or otherwise is in
violation of any provision of this section may be immediately removed from
service.
      12.   Safety inspection stickers are not transferable from one vehicle to
another. A safety inspection sticker shall not be affixed to any vehicle other
than the vehicle for which the sticker was originally issued.
      13.   When a livery vehicle is removed from service by the owner, the
livery vehicle license issued to that vehicle must be immediately surrendered
to the Director of the Health and Licensing Department.
   B.   License Sticker And Display:
      1.   A livery vehicle license issued by the Village shall be in the form
of an adhesive sticker which shall contain the official license number of the
public passenger vehicle.
      2.   Livery vehicle licenses shall be of a distinctly different color
and/or design every year. Livery vehicle licenses must be affixed to the lower
right portion of the windshield of the vehicle for which the license has been
issued.
      3.   A livery vehicle sticker is not transferable to any vehicle other
than the vehicle for which it has been issued.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-8-3: AGE, CONDITION AND TYPE OF VEHICLES:
   A.   No vehicle shall be operated as a limousine that is more than six (6)
years old.
   B.   All vehicles licensed to operate as taxicabs must comply with all other
requirements of this article:
      1.   There shall not be any rust on the exterior or interior of the
vehicle.
      2.   The body and interior of the vehicle shall not have any visible
damage or defects. The exterior surfaces on the body of the vehicle must be
painted so that colors used in different areas of the vehicle body match.
      3.   All windows in the vehicle, lights on the exterior and lights in the
interior of the vehicle shall be in proper working condition and shall not
contain any cracks or holes.
      4.   The upholstery within the vehicle shall not be ripped, torn or
otherwise damaged.
      5.   The exterior of the vehicle must be maintained in a clean condition
taking into account weather conditions.
      6.   The interior of the vehicle must be maintained in a clean condition.
There shall be no litter, garbage or other debris inside the vehicle. There
shall not be any pungent odors emanating from within the interior of the
vehicle or the vehicle itself.
      7.   All mechanical components of the vehicle shall operate properly. The
vehicle shall not emit any noise or fumes which are not emitted by a vehicle
that is in excellent operating condition.
      8.   The vehicle must be equipped with an operating heater and an
operating air conditioning system. The interior of the vehicle, while
transporting a passenger, must be maintained at a temperature that is not less
than sixty five degrees Fahrenheit (65°F) or more than seventy two degrees
Fahrenheit (72°F)
   C.   The Superintendent shall have the authority to issue additional
regulations which contain requirements relating to the condition in which
vehicles licensed as taxicabs must be maintained and operated; provided, that
such regulations are consistent with the provisions of subsection B of this
section including, but not limited to, regulations which restrict or limit the
items and materials which may be displayed on the exterior or interior of a
vehicle licensed as a taxicab.
   D.   1.   All public passenger vehicles licensed in the Village shall meet
the following criteria:
         a.   The vehicle shall be “full size” or larger automobile or van or
shall be a vehicle which is a make, model and model year that is listed on the
current list of eligible models issued by the Chief of Public Safety pursuant
to subsection D2 of this section.
         b.   It shall be equipped with at least four (4) operable doors.
         c.   It shall have a compartment to contain luggage or similar items.
      2.   The Superintendent of Public Safety may determine that motor
vehicles other than “full size” or larger automobiles and vans may be licensed
as public passenger vehicles in the Village. If the Superintendent determines
that motor vehicles other than “full size” and larger automobiles and vans
shall be eligible to be licensed as public passenger vehicles in the Village,
the Superintendent shall maintain a list which states the make, model and model
year of those motor vehicles other than “full size” and larger automobiles and
vans which are eligible to be licensed as public passenger vehicles.
   E.   Any vehicle found operating in violation of this section is subject to
being immediately removed from service.
(Ord. 98-9-2D, 9-2-1998)
4-15C-9: CHAUFFEURS:
4-15C-9-1: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any public passenger
vehicle in the Village without having first obtained a Rosemont chauffeur’s
license.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any public
passenger vehicle to employ or permit any person to operate such vehicle for
hire within the Village unless the driver has a valid chauffeur’s license
issued by the Village.
   C.   Any person desiring to obtain a public passenger vehicle chauffeur’s
license must file a written application with the License Officer.
   D.   The contents of the application shall be determined by the License
Officer.
   E.   Applicants must meet the following qualifications:
      1.   Be no less than twenty one (21) years of age.
      2.   Not be afflicted with any infirmity of body or mind which may render
him or her unfit for safe operation of a public passenger vehicle.
      3.   Have a valid Illinois driver’s license.
      4.   Not have been convicted of a class A misdemeanor or felony charge
within the last five (5) years, or show a previous background that indicates a
tendency to act in a manner that may place the public at risk.
      5.   Not have had his license suspended or revoked in any state within
the last three (3) years for any violation of law concerning the operation of a
motor vehicle.
      6.   Be able to read, write and speak the English language at a level of
expertise sufficient to effectively function as a public passenger vehicle
operator.
      7.   Be able to pass a written examination which tests the applicant’s
knowledge of local geography and traffic laws.
   F.   When the application is filed and its processing fee paid, the
Superintendent of Public Safety will conduct a thorough applicant background
check.
   G.   If the results of the background check are favorable, the applicant
will be required to pass a written and/or oral exam to prove proficiency in the
areas of reading, writing, and speaking the English language, local geography
and traffic laws.
   H.   If the applicant fails to pass the examination on the first attempt, he
will be allowed to re-test a maximum of four (4) times in a one hundred eighty
(180) day period from the date of first attempt. If the applicant fails the
four (4) subsequent tests, he must wait until at least January 1 of the
following year to re-apply for a chauffeur’s license. Once all testing criteria
is successfully met and the applicant is deemed fit, a public passenger vehicle
license will be issued promptly.
   I.   The public passenger vehicle chauffeur’s license shall be prominently
displayed in the vehicle at all times.
   J.   It shall be unlawful to transfer any public passenger vehicle
chauffeur’s license from one person to another.
   K.   Any public passenger vehicle found being operated by a driver who has
not obtained a chauffeur’s license from the Village shall be immediately
removed from service.
   L.   Any person issued a chauffeur’s license must inform the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department within ten (10) days of any change of address
or phone number.
   M.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department may suspend a
chauffeur’s license for a period not to exceed three (3) days as a result of a
failure to comply with the provisions of this article or for any violation of
Federal, State or Municipal law. Prior to suspending a chauffeur’s license
pursuant to this subsection, the Director shall give the licensee the
opportunity to appear before the Director and explain why the chauffeur’s
license should not be suspended. Any person whose chauffeur’s license has been
suspended pursuant to this subsection may appeal the suspension to the Public
Passenger Vehicle Review Board by filing a notice of appeal with the Office of
the Chief of Public Safety within twenty four (24) hours after the suspension
is issued. If an appeal is filed, the suspension shall be deferred until such
time as the Public Passenger Review Board has conducted a hearing and decided
the appeal.
   N.   1.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department may
temporarily suspend, for a period not to exceed seven (7) days pending a
hearing by the Public Passenger Vehicle Review Board, a chauffeur’s license for
the following:
         a.   Failure to comply with the provisions of this article or for any
violation of Federal, State, or Municipal law.
         b.   The licensee being physically, mentally or emotionally unfit to
perform his duties as a public passenger vehicle operator.
         c.   The fraudulent use of the license by or with consent of the
licensee.
      2.    Before suspending a chauffeur’s license pursuant to this
subsection, the Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall give the
licensee an opportunity to appear before the Director and explain why the
chauffeur’s license should not be suspended pending a hearing by the Review
Board.
   O.   A person requesting that a chauffeur’s license be renewed shall submit
an application to the Director of the Health and Licensing Department prior to
the date the chauffeur’s license is scheduled to expire. No chauffeur’s license
shall be renewed until after the Superintendent of Public Safety has conducted
a review of the renewal applicant’s driving record and criminal background. No
chauffeur’s license will be renewed unless the Superintendent of Public Safety
and the Director of the Health and Licensing Department and the determine that
the applicant for renewal continues to meet the requirements for receiving a
chauffeur’s license.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-9-2: RANDOM CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE TESTING OF LICENSEES:
   A.   No person holding a valid Rosemont chauffeur’s license shall operate
any public passenger vehicle in the Village while having in his possession or
being under the influence of any “controlled substance”, as defined in section
102 of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/102), including
“cannabis”, as defined in section 3 of the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/
3), or any prescription drug unless such prescription drug was obtained
directly or pursuant to a valid prescription order from a duly licensed
physician who is acting in the course of his professional practice.
   B.   Random controlled substances testing shall be conducted on unannounced
dates and times. The Superintendent of Public Safety or his designated agents
shall randomly select persons holding valid Rosemont chauffeurs’ licenses for
controlled substance testing. Such license holders shall be escorted to the
testing site by a designated public safety officer.
   C.   The controlled substances testing shall be conducted by analyzing the
Rosemont chauffeur’s license holder’s urine specimen. The analysis shall be
performed at laboratories designated by the Village and certified and monitored
by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). All
samples shall be “split-samples”. The “primary sample” shall be at least thirty
milliliters (30 mL) of urine; the “split-sample” shall be at least fifteen
milliliters (15 mL). The failure of the holder of a Rosemont chauffeur’s
license to provide that quantity, even after a two (2) hour second opportunity
following drinking up to twenty four (24) ounces of water, shall cause the
license holder to be referred for a medical evaluation to develop pertinent
information as to whether such license holder’s inability to provide a specimen
is genuine or constitutes a refusal to test. A written conclusion shall be
submitted to the Village by a medical review officer (“MRO”) designated by the
Village.
   D.   The MRO shall be responsible for receiving laboratory results of a
licensee’s controlled substances tests.
   E.   The first test is the initial test to determine if any of the specified
prohibited controlled substances are present in the licensee’s urine sample. If
the initial test is positive for one or more of the prohibited controlled
substances, then a confirmation test for each drug identified in the initial
test shall be performed on the remainder of the tested primary urine specimen
sample.
   F.   If the confirmation test is required, the MRO shall notify the Rosemont
chauffeur’s license holder. The license holder will then be entitled to request
a confirming test on the untested split-sample, provided the license holder
requests the test of the split-sample within seventy two (72) hours of the
notification.
   G.   Refusal by a Rosemont chauffeur’s license holder to provide the urine
sample shall be a violation of this section and subject the license holder to
immediate suspension of his Rosemont chauffeur’s license. The Superintendent of
Public Safety, after a hearing, shall suspend for thirty (30) days any license
holder who refuses to provide a urine sample. At the conclusion of the thirty
(30) day suspension, the license holder will not have his license reinstated
until he produces a negative test result.
   H.   1.   If, after a hearing, a Rosemont chauffeur’s license holder is
found to be in violation of this section as a result of a positive controlled
substance test or being in possession of a controlled substance in a manner not
permitted by law, his Rosemont chauffeur’s license shall be suspended until
such time as his condition has been evaluated by a substance abuse professional
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Public Safety.
      2.   After such a professional evaluation, if the license holder’s
condition proves nonaddictive, the license holder’s Rosemont chauffeur’s
license shall be reinstated, provided he can produce a negative controlled
substance test result and agrees to further testing, at the discretion of the
Superintendent of Public Safety, to ensure that the license holder is no longer
using controlled substances in a manner not permitted by law.
      3.   After such a professional evaluation, if the license holder’s
condition proves addictive, the license holder’s Rosemont chauffeur’s license
shall not be reinstated until such time as he can produce a negative controlled
substance test result and show documented proof to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent of Public Safety that he has successfully completed a certified
drug rehabilitation program approved by the Village. The license holder must
agree to indefinite testing at the discretion of the Superintendent to ensure
that the license holder is no longer impaired.
   I.   Positive test results will be reported to the Superintendent of Public
Safety who will immediately notify the Rosemont chauffeur’s license holder and
schedule a hearing. The license holder’s Rosemont chauffeur’s license may be
suspended pending the outcome of the hearing. If, after a hearing, a Rosemont
chauffeur’s license holder is determined to be in violation of this section, he
shall have his license suspended until such time as he complies with subsection
H of this section.
   J.   If a Rosemont chauffeur’s license holder is found to have violated the
provisions of this section a second time, his Rosemont chauffeur’s license
shall be revoked, and such person shall no longer be qualified to obtain a
Rosemont’s chauffeur’s license at any time.
   K.   All controlled substances test results shall be maintained under strict
confidentiality by the Village, the designated testing laboratory, the MRO,
and, where applicable, the substance abuse professional. Controlled substances
test results shall be released only in the following circumstances:
      1.   To the Rosemont chauffeur’s license holder upon written request;
      2.   To third parties, when the license holder has given written consent;
      3.   To any Federal, State or local officials with regulatory control
over the Village or the license holder;
      4.   To a decision maker in a litigation or administrative proceeding
arising from a positive test result or license holder initiated action;
      5.   To a subsequent employer upon receipt of a written request by the
license holder; or
      6.   Where otherwise required by law.
(Ord. 98-12-2H, 12-2-1998)
4-15C-10: OPERATION OF PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLES:
   A.   No operator of a public passenger vehicle shall carry more than the
rated passenger load per vehicle.
   B.   After a public passenger vehicle has been hired by one or more persons
traveling together, the operator shall not pick up other passengers.
   C.   It is the duty of the driver of any public passenger vehicle licensed
in the Village to accept as a passenger any person who seeks service; provided,
that the person conducts himself in an orderly manner.
   D.   The driver of a public passenger vehicle shall transport his passenger
to the point of destination by the most direct route available.
   E.   Each public passenger vehicle driver shall maintain personal hygiene,
be clean and orderly in dress, and neatly maintain his scalp and facial hair.
Such operator will be required to wear a collared shirt, full length pants and
shoes which fully cover the driver’s feet. Clothing shall not have any visible
rips or tears.
   F.   No person shall operate a public passenger vehicle within the Village
who is under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance
or who, at any time within ninety (90) minutes prior to operating such vehicle,
has consumed an alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any operator of a public passenger vehicle to
use obscene or profane language in the presence of any passenger.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any public passenger vehicle licensed by the
Village to advertise for the purpose of business or commercial uses unrelated
to the public passenger vehicle company.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any public passenger vehicle which transports
passengers to convey toxic, hazardous or biological waste at any time.
   J.   It shall be unlawful for any public passenger vehicle operator or
company to use a radio frequency scanner or scanning type radio to monitor the
radio frequency of a competing company for the purpose of stealing the fares of
the scanned company.
   K.   It shall be unlawful for any public passenger driver or company
representative to offer compensation to the employees of any business in
Rosemont in order to direct prospective customers to that driver or company. It
shall be unlawful for any person to accept or solicit compensation from a
public passenger driver or company representative in return for directing
prospective customers to that driver or company.
   L.   The operator of a public passenger vehicle shall be courteous to
passengers, prospective passengers and other drivers at all times.
   M.   If any public passenger vehicle driver violates the provisions of this
section, the vehicle he is operating may be immediately removed from service.
   N.   It is unlawful to transfer any public passenger vehicle license from
one vehicle to another.
   O.   The driver of any public passenger vehicle, while posted at any
location in Rosemont awaiting a fare, shall remain in or in close proximity to
the vehicle he is operating. He may leave his vehicle unattended for a period
of no longer than ten (10) minutes.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
   P.   A public passenger vehicle which has not been issued a public passenger
vehicle license pursuant to this article shall not stand or park on any
privately owned or privately controlled property except as follows:
      1.   A livery vehicle may stand or park on privately owned property;
provided, that the operator of the livery vehicle is waiting for a passenger as
allowed under subsection 4-15C-4D2 of this article; provided, that the operator
shall remain in or in close proximity to the vehicle he is operating and does
not leave the vehicle unattended for a period of longer than ten (10) minutes.
      2.   A public passenger vehicle may stand or park in a parking lot which
is located on the same premises as a restaurant with drive-up facilities for a
period of not longer than fifteen (15) minutes.
      3.   A public passenger vehicle may stand or park in a parking lot which
is located on the same premises as a grocery store, delicatessen or convenience
food store for a period of no longer than ten (10) minutes.
(Ord. 98-1-14M, 1-14-1998)
   Q.   A public passenger vehicle shall not be parked and left unattended on
any public street in the Village or within any publicly owned surface parking
lot where a fee is not charged for parking.
(Ord. 2001-9-5B, 9-5-2001)
4-15C-11: TAXICAB STANDS:
   A.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall have the authority to create
on public property and, with the permission from the owner, on private property
taxicab stands where cabs licensed by the Village may wait for passengers.
   B.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall also have the authority to
limit the number of taxis permitted to use a taxicab stand at any given time.
   C.   Rules of conduct at cab stands shall include, but are not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Taxicabs entering a cab stand or line shall take the rear positions.
Overcrowding cab stands or lines is prohibited.
      2.   While taxis occupy designated cab stands, no other taxi shall bypass
the cab line and accept passengers for service or payment that is to be made by
a third party through use of a voucher.
      3.   The first cab in line shall be eligible for the first available
fare, unless a passenger indicates a preference for another cab in that line.
      4.   No taxicab shall accept a load along side of, in front of, or
adjacent to an established occupied cab stand.
      5.   Livery vehicles shall not park in taxicab stands.
   6.   Public passenger vehicle drivers shall not sleep or lounge while posted
in a cab stand.
   7.   There shall not be more than two (2) occupants in any vehicle posted at
a cab stand.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-12: TAXIMETERS:
   A.   No taxicab shall be issued a Village taxicab vehicle license until its
taximeter is tested and certified to be accurate and sealed.
   B.   No taxicab shall operate for hire in the Village unless the taximeter
is accurately recording the fare to be charged.
   C.   The taximeter will be located so that its face can be seen by any
passenger riding in the taxi.
   D.   Adequate illumination shall be provided for the face of the taximeter
so that it may be read by the passenger whenever the vehicle is in operation.
   E.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall have the authority to
designate an official taximeter testing center.
   F.   Each taximeter, after being certified as accurate by the official meter
testing center, will be sealed with a numbered adhesive seal issued by the
Village which will indicate that the taximeter has been inspected and found to
be accurate.
   G.   No person operating or owning any taxicab shall transfer any taximeter
to any other vehicle unless the meter is inspected, reprogrammed and certified
at the authorized taximeter testing center.
   H.   If a taxicab has service performed on or changes made to the
transmission, any drive train component, or the size of the tire, the owner of
the taxicab must have the taximeter inspected, reprogrammed and certified at
the authorized taximeter testing center.
   I.   There shall be programmed into the meter of any taxicab licensed in the
Village only one rate of fare. The rates shall be those which are provided in
subsection 4-15C-13B of this article.
   J.   It shall be unlawful to have in any taxicab more than one taximeter.
   K.   It shall be unlawful to attempt to remove, tamper with, or alter a
taximeter seal.
   L.   Any person convicted of tampering with or otherwise manipulating a
taximeter and any person found to have tampered with a taximeter seal or found
with a fraudulently obtained taximeter seal will be subject to a two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) fine for the first offense. A seven hundred fifty
dollar ($750.00) fine wi11 be assessed for the second offense. In addition, the
public passenger vehicle chauffeur’s license of such person will be revoked for
a second offense.
   M.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a taxicab operator’s license to
knowingly allow or encourage a driver working for that company to operate a
taxi which is in violation of any provision of this section.
   N.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall have the authority to specify
the brand and model of taximeter to be used by taxicabs licensed in the
Village.
   O.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall have the authority to require
that taximeters be re-certified and resealed on a semiannual basis. The Chief
of nubble Safety shall also have the authority to require that a taximeter be
recertified and resealed at any time the Superintendent has reason to believe
that the taximeter may not be accurate or that there may have been tampering
with or an unauthorized adjustment made to the taximeter.
   P.   Any taxicab which has a taximeter found to be in violation of any
provisions of this section may be immediately removed from service.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-13: RATES OF FARE:
   A.   Fixing Rates: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
licensed under the provisions of this article to conspire among themselves or
with other persons to fix or control rates for public passenger vehicles within
the Village. It is the purpose of this article to provide for free and
uncontrolled rates except as to maximum rates of fare for taxicabs as provided
in subsection B of this section. Any scheme, device or other subterfuge
employed by any person to evade this purpose shall be deemed to be in violation
of this article and grounds for revocation.
   B.   Rates Established: Taxicab rates as determined when a taximeter is in
use shall be as follows:
      1.   Three dollars ($3.00) upon hire for the first passenger and one
dollar ($1.00) for each additional passenger above the age of twelve (12);
provided, that there shall be no more than four (4) passengers over the age of
twelve (12) permitted in a taxicab which is an automobile or more than seven
(7) passengers over the age of twelve (12) in a taxicab which is a minivan.
      2.   Twenty four cents ($0.24) for each one-tenth (1/10) mile or fraction
thereof that is traveled in the taxicab; except, that a) person(s) whose
domicile is in the Village shall be charged a flat rate of four dollars ($4.00)
per trip to any single destination within the Village; and b) persons whose
domicile is in the Village who are age sixty two (62) years or older shall be
charged the flat rate indicated when transported to the following destinations:
      Cumberland and Higgins Shopping Area: Six dollars ($6.00).
      Oakton and Lee Shopping Area: Six dollars ($6.00).
      Holy Family Hospital: Nine dollars $9.00.
      Lutheran General Hospital: Nine dollars ($9.00).
      Resurrection Hospital: Nine dollars ($9.00).
      3.   Forty cents ($0.40) for each one minute of waiting time or traffic
delay unless the fare for the trip is a flat rate as provided in subsection B2
of this section.
      4.   Unless there is a passenger in the taxicab for a trip who is sixty
two (62) years old or older, if the taxicab operator handles more than two (2)
items, including packages and luggage, which weigh over ten (10) pounds each,
then there shall be an additional charge of fifty cents ($0.50) for each item
other than the first two (2) such items.
      5.   If a passenger presents a Village senior subsidy card that has been
issued to the passenger, the fare charged to the passenger shall be discounted
one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) off the fare that would otherwise be charged
pursuant to the rates specified in subsections B1, B2 and B3 of this section.
      6.   A fuel surcharge may be added by the driver of a taxicab when the
fare for a ride is calculated under subsection B(1) of this section as follows:
         a.   If the price of gasoline equals or exceeds two dollars seventy
cents ($2.70) for seven (7) consecutive business days and the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department issues a tax industry advisory notice
authorizing a fifty cent ($0.50) fuel surcharge on the rates of fare, the
driver of a taxicab may add to the total taxicab fare that would otherwise
apply a fuel surcharge not to exceed fifty cents ($0.50). Provided, however,
that if the price of gasoline falls below two dollars seventy cents ($2.70) per
gallon for seven (7) consecutive business days at any time after such taxi
industry advisory notice is issued under this subsection B6a, the fuel
surcharge authorized under this subsection B6a shall expire at twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on such seventh consecutive business day.
         b.   If the price of gasoline equals or exceeds three dollars twenty
cents ($3.20) per gallon for seven (7) consecutive business days and the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department issues a tax industry advisory
notice authorizing a one dollar ($1.00) fuel surcharge on the rates of fare,
the driver of a taxicab may add to the total taxicab fare that would otherwise
apply a fuel surcharge not to exceed one dollar ($1.00). Provided, however,
that if the price of gasoline falls below three dollars twenty cents ($3.20)
per gallon for seven (7) consecutive business days at any time after such tax
industry advisory notice is issued under this subsection B6b but remains at or
above two dollars seventy cents ($2.70) per gallon throughout such seven (7)
consecutive business day period, the driver of the taxicab shall adjust the one
dollar ($1.00) fuel surcharge downward to an amount not to exceed fifty cents
($0.50). Such downward adjusted fuel surcharge shall not be readjusted upward
to one dollar ($1.00) by any taxicab driver unless a taxi industry advisory
notice authorizing such upward adjustment is issued by the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department. Provided, further, that if the price of
gasoline falls below $2,709 per gallon for seven (7) consecutive business days
at any time after a taxi industry advisory notice is issued under this
subsection B6, any fuel surcharge authorized under this subsection B6 shall
expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on such seventh consecutive business
day.
         c.   If a fuel surcharge is authorized under subsection B6a or B6b of
this section, no taxicab driver shall add such fuel surcharge to any rate of
fare unless a clearly visible sign approved by the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department and notifying passengers of the surcharge, is posted in a
prominent place within the taxicab. The Director may, by regulation or
directive, specify the location, wording, size and other features of the sign
required by this subsection B6c.
         d.   If the Corporate Authorities of the Village enact an ordinance
which revises the rates of fare set forth in subsection Bl of this section, the
provisions of subsections B6a and B6b of this section shall not apply for a
period of twelve (12) months, as measured from the effective date of such
ordinance.
         e.   It shall be unlawful for any person to add any fuel surcharge to
any rate of fare in violation of the requirements of this subsection B6. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction provided by law, any person who
violates this subsection B6 shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty ($750.00) for each offense.
Each occasion on which a fuel charge is added to a taxicab fare in violation of
the requirements of this subsection B6 shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation to which a separate fine shall apply.
         f.   As used in this subsection B6, the term "price of gasoline" means
the average retail regular reformulated gasoline price as for the Chicago
Metropolitan Statistical Area published in the AAA's Daily Fuel Gauge Report.
      7.   Rates Established: When the fee is determined by a ride share
application program. When the cost of transportation services provided by a
Taxicab is determined by a computerized application ride share program in which
the passenger participates by initiating the call for service through a
computer application, the fee shall be based upon the terms and conditions as
established for the time of the service under the program.
   C.   Rates Displayed: The taxi rates of fare established by this section for
a taximeter will be printed upon a card in plain and legible type. This card
will only be created, printed and distributed by the Village. The card will be
affixed to the interior of each taxicab in a conspicuous place so that it may
be easily read by any passenger riding in the vehicle.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997; amd. Ord. 2008-5-7E, 5-7-2008, eff. 5-16-2008; Ord.
2009-4-1H, 4-1-2009, eff. 4-15-2009; Ord. 2022-10-10C, 10-10-2022)
4-15C-14: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person will be issued a Village chauffeur’s license and no taxicab
vehicle license or livery vehicle license shall be issued until all the
requirements of the State laws concerning insurance issued to compensate any
person who may suffer damage as a result of operation of this vehicle have been
met.
   B.   All applicants for licenses provided by this article shall, as part of
their application, submit proof of insurance in the amounts required by current
State law.
   C.   There shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of each public passenger
vehicle a sticker which indicates that the vehicle has complied with the
requirements of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-101 through 5/8-116.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-15: PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE REVIEW BOARD:
   A.   1.   The Village President shall appoint a Review Board which shall
have the power to impose fines and to suspend, for periods greater than three
(3) days, or revoke taxicab and livery vehicle licenses and chauffeur’s
licenses where the Review Board finds that the licensee or a vehicle for which
a public passenger vehicle license has been issued:
         a.   Has violated the provisions of this article or any applicable
Federal, State, or Municipal Law; or
         b.   Has, in the case of a person holding a chauffeur’s license,
become physically, mentally or emotionally unfit to perform his duties as a
public passenger vehicle operator; or
         c.   Has, in the case of a licensee, fraudulently used or consented to
the fraudulent use of the license.
      2.   The Review Board shall also have the authority to impose fines on
holders of taxicab operators’ licenses and to recommend to the Village
President that a taxicab operator’s license or a livery service operator’s
license be suspended or revoked if the Review Board finds that a licensee has
violated a provision of this article. The Review Board shall consider appeals
of decisions made by the Director of the Health and Licensing Department to
suspend a chauffeur’s license as provided in subsection
4-15C-9-1M of this article.
   B.   The decision of the Review Board will not be affected by the outcome of
any court decision relating to any violation for which the Review Board
suspended or revoked a license or recommended the suspension or revocation of a
license unless the court decision reverses or vacates the Review Board’s
decision.
   C.   The Review Board shall include but, is not limited to, the Director of
the Health and Licensing Department and two (2) members of the Rosemont Public
Safety Department o who hold a rank above the rank of public safety officer.
   D.   1.   The Review Board shall have the authority to levy fines against
license holders according to the following schedule and as otherwise provided
in this article:
         a.   First offense: Up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
         b.   Second offense: Up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
         c.   Third or subsequent offense: Up to seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and mandatory license revocation; except, that in the case of the
operator of a livery or taxicab service, the third or subsequent offense shall
result in a mandatory recommendation that the operator’s license be revoked by
the Village President.
      2.   In addition to or instead of imposing a fine as provided in this
subsection, the Review Board may also suspend or revoke a chauffeur’s license
or a public passenger vehicle license and may recommend to the Village
President that a taxicab operator’s license or a livery service operator’s
license be suspended or revoked.
   E.   Prior to 1) suspending or revoking a license; 2) recommending the
suspension or revocation of a taxicab or livery operator’s license; 3) imposing
a fine as provided in this section; or 4) considering an appeal of a suspension
issued by the License Officer pursuant to subsection
4-15C-9-1M of this article, the Review Board shall conduct an informal hearing.
Notice of the date and time of the hearing shall be delivered to the licensee
or mailed to the licensee’s last known address on file with the Village not
less than five (5) days before the date of the hearing. The licensee shall be
entitled to present testimony and documentary evidence at the hearing as to why
the license should not be revoked or suspended and why a fine should not be
imposed. The licensee shall have the right to cross examine any person who
testifies against the licensee during the hearing. The licensee may be
represented at the hearing by counsel. The decision of the Review Board shall
be made by majority vote of those members of the Review Board who were in
attendance at the hearing.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-16: IMMEDIATE REMOVAL FROM SERVICE:
   A.   Where this article provides that a public passenger vehicle shall be or
may be immediately removed from service, the vehicle may be removed from
service by towing.
   B.   If a vehicle is removed from service, the owner or operator is wholly
responsible for any towing and impound charges that occur, unless the Review
Board determines that there was no basis for removing the vehicle from service.
   C.   Any public passenger vehicle which is operated in violation or contains
a condition which violates a provision of this article may be immediately
removed from service.
   D.   If a public passenger vehicle is immediately removed from service as
provided in this article, a hearing shall be scheduled before the Review Board
within not more than ten (10) days after the date the vehicle is immediately
removed from service, if the owner of the public passenger vehicle files a
request for a hearing with the Office of the Chief of Public Safety within
forty eight (48) hours after the vehicle is removed from service.
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
4-15C-17: RECORDKEEPING:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall keep records of any
pertinent information concerning public passenger vehicles and chauffeurs.
These records shall be available for inspection by the public in accordance
with the provisions of the Illinois Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et
seq).
(Ord. 97-1-8Q, 1-8-1997)
ARTICLE D: BUS TRANSPORT BUSINESS
Section
4-15D-1:   Definition
4-15D-2:   License Required
4-15D-3:   Application For License
4-15D-4:   Investigation Of Applicant; Approval Or Disapproval Of License
4-15D-5:   Insurances Or Bond Required
4-15D-6:   Condition Of Vehicles; Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-15D-1: DEFINITION:
The term “bus transport business”, when used in this article, shall mean any
business which is not a public utility under State law, owning or operating for
profit any type of vehicle, having a rated seating capacity of more than seven
(7) persons, for the transportation of passengers as a result of individual
contract or on a per trip or per hourly basis.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15D-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the bus transport business in the Village without
first having obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15D-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a license to engage in the bus transport business shall be
made in conformity with the general requirements of this title relating to
applications for licenses. The application shall also state the number of
vehicles owned or operated by the applicant and which of such vehicles are to
be used for the transportation of children to and from school.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15D-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF LICENSE:
The Superintendent of Public Safety shall make or cause to be made such
investigations as he deems necessary to determine whether the vehicles used by
the applicant and the drivers employed by the applicant comply with all the
applicable provisions of this Code. No license shall be issued to any applicant
whose proposed vehicles and drivers to not comply with the applicable
provisions of this Code. The Superintendent shall indicate on the application
for a license the results of his investigations and his approval or disapproval
of the application.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15D-5: INSURANCES OR BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Every bus transport business shall carry public liability and property
damage insurance and workers’ compensation insurance for employees with
responsible insurers authorized to transact insurance business in the State of
Illinois and qualified to assume the risks under the laws of Illinois to secure
payment of any loss or damage resulting from occurrence arising out of or
caused by the operation or use of any of the vehicles belonging to the
licensee.
   B.   The public liability insurance policy or contract may cover one or more
vehicles, but each one shall be insured in an amount as required by the
Village. Every insurance policy or contract for such insurance shall provide
for the payment and satisfaction of any final judgment rendered against the
owner or any person driving any insured vehicle, and that suit may be brought
in any court of competent jurisdiction upon such policy or contract by any
person having claims arising from the operation or use of such vehicles. It
shall contain a description of each vehicle insured, manufacturer’s name and
serial number, the State license number, and the Village license number.
   C.   In lieu of an insurance policy or contract, a surety bond or bonds with
a corporate surety or sureties authorized to do business under the laws of
Illinois may be accepted by the Village for all or any part of such insurance;
provided, that each bond shall be conditioned for the payment and satisfaction
of any final judgment, in conformity with the provisions of an insurance policy
required by this section.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15D-6: CONDITION OF VEHICLES; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   General Condition Of Vehicles; Inspections:
      1.   No bus transport business license shall be granted until all
vehicles used by the applicant for such license have been thoroughly and
carefully inspected and approved by the Superintendent of Public Safety or his
designee and found to be in a thoroughly safe condition for the transportation
of passengers; clean, fit, of good appearance and well painted and varnished
and complying with the provisions of this article.
      2.   All vehicles used in a bus transport business licensed under this
article must be kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition, and must be
equipped with properly working brakes, lights and warning signals, in
accordance with the motor vehicle laws of the State of Illinois, this article
and the other regulations of the Village, and no bus transport business license
shall be issued hereunder until it is shown that all vehicles to be used in
such business are in good mechanical condition.
   B.   Mechanical Tests: Mechanical tests of each vehicle used by an applicant
for a bus transport business license shall be made by any testing garage or
testing station approved by the Department of Public Safety and shall include
the following: brakes, wheel alignment, horn, windshield wiper, rear view
mirror, steering mechanism, headlights, taillights and stop lights.
   C.   Physical Inspection: Physical inspection shall be made by the Public
Safety Department and shall include condition of tires, including spare tire,
cleanliness, and general appearance.
   D.   Duty Of Owner: It is the duty of the owner of each vehicle to be used
in a bus transport business to submit to the Superintendent of Public Safety
each vehicle for inspection prior to the issuance of the license and at least
once in every six (6) months thereafter or at any time upon complaint. Also,
the Superintendent may inspect these vehicles at such other times as the
Superintendent may deem necessary, and it is unlawful for the owner or person
in charge or any such vehicle to use or permit its use, in case it has been
condemned by the Superintendent until the vehicle has been repaired or replaced
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE E: MOTOR VEHICLE RENTAL AGENCIES
Section:
4-15E-1:   Definitions
4-15E-2:   License Required
4-15E-3:   Application For License
4-15E-4:   Insurances Or Bond Required
4-15E-5:   Condition Of Vehicles; Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-15E-1: DEFINITION:
The term “car rental agency”, when used in this article, shall mean any
business primarily engaged in the rental of motor vehicles of any kind, by the
day, week, month or mileage, for a consideration.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15E-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the car rental agency business in the Village without
first having obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15E-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any application for a license to engage in the car rental agency business shall
be made in conformity with the general requirements of this title relating to
applications for licenses.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15E-4: INSURANCES OR BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   All licensees under this article shall carry at all times public
liability insurance with a responsible insurer qualified to do business in
Illinois to secure payment of loss or damage resulting from an occurrence
arising out of or caused by the operation or use of any of the vehicles rented
by the licensee.
   B.   The public liability insurance may cover one or more vehicles, but each
one shall be insured in an amount as required by the Village. Every insurance
policy or contract for such insurance shall provide for the payment and
satisfaction of any final judgment rendered against the owner or any person
driving any insured vehicle, and that suit may be brought in any court of
competent jurisdiction upon such policy or contract by any person having claims
arising from the operation or use of such vehicles. It shall contain a
description of each vehicle insured, manufacturer’s name and serial number, the
State license number and the Village license number.
   C.   In lieu of an insurance policy or contract, a surety bond or bonds,
with a corporate surety or sureties authorized to do business under the laws of
Illinois, may be accepted by the Village for all or any part of such insurance;
provided, that each bond shall be conditioned for the payment and satisfaction
of any final judgment, in conformity with the provisions of an insurance policy
required by this section.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15E-5: CONDITION OF VEHICLES; INSPECTIONS:
All vehicles rented to the public by a car rental agency located in the Village
shall be maintained in a safe and properly functioning condition. The
Superintendent of Public Safety or his representative may inspect any vehicle
owned by a licensed car rental agency if he determines there is danger to the
public from such vehicle, and it is the duty of the licensee to permit such
inspections at any time the licensee is open for business. If the
Superintendent or his representative determines that the vehicle is not safe to
operate, the licensee shall make the vehicle safe, to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent, before renting the vehicle.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE F: PARKING LOTS AND GARAGES
Section
4-15F-1:   Definitions
4-15F-2:   License Required
4-15F-3:   Application For License
4-15F-4:   Bond Or Insurance Required
4-15F-5:   Rates And Charges
4-15F-6:   Rate And Hour Signs
4-15F-7:   Additional Commercial Parking Lot Provisions
4-15F-8:   Claim Checks; Return Of Vehicle
4-15F-9:   Entrances, Exits And Barriers
4-15F-10:   Maintenance Of Lots
4-15F-11:   Fire Protection
4-15F-12:   Vehicle Care After Closing
4-15F-13:   Notices Of Claims And Unclaimed Vehicles
4-15F-14:   Prohibited Acts
4-15F-15:   Revocation Of License
4-15F-16:   Moratorium On The Installation Of New Electric Vehicle Charging
Stations In Parking Garage Structures
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-15F-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL PARKING LOT OR GARAGE. Any parking lot or garage where a fee is
charged to a person who parks a motor vehicle in or upon the parking lot or
garage other than a parking lot or garage owned' or operated by a unit of
government.
GARAGE: A building or shed, or any portion thereof, in which more than five (5)
motor vehicles may be parked, stored, housed or kept, for which any charge is
made.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any automobile, truck, motor scooter, or self-propelled vehicle
not operated on tracks or from trolleys.
PARKING FEE: The consideration paid by a person in return for being permitted
to park a motor vehicle in a commercial parking lot or garage.
PARKING LOT: Any outdoor space or uncovered plot, place, lot, parcel, yard or
enclosure, or any portion thereof, where more than five (5) motor vehicles may
be parked, stored, housed or kept for which any charge is made.
PERSON: Any person, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a business of storing motor
vehicles for hire on a parking lot in a garage within the Village without first
having obtained a license therefor in the manner herein set forth.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license required by this article shall be made in conformance
with the general requirements of this title relating to the issuance of
licenses. The application shall include:
   A.   A plot or drawing of the parking lot or garage showing:
      1.   The location, size and capacity;
      2.   The location and size of entrance and exit;
      3.   The kind of floor or ground surface;
      4.   The location, size and construction of the attendant’s station;
      5.   The wall or barriers surrounding the premises;
   B.   The hours for storage or parking of the vehicles and whether night
storage is to be maintained upon the licensed premises;
   C.   The hours during which parking attendants will be on duty;
   D.   A complete schedule of the rates to be charged for storing or parking
of vehicles; and
   E.   Such other information as the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department may deem necessary for the issuance of the license.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-4: BOND OR INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Every application for a license hereunder shall be accompanied by a
bond, approved by the Village Attorney, executed by a bonding or surety company
authorized to do business in the State, in an amount as required by the
Village, conditioned upon the payment by the licensee of any and all final
judgments for damages resulting to persons or property, including the theft of
any motor vehicle or any part or accessory thereof arising out of the operation
or maintenance of any parking lot or garage. The bond shall run to the Village
for the benefit of any person who may claim redress for property damage or
theft resulting from the operation or maintenance of a parking lot or garage.
The bond shall remain in full force and effect for the full period of time for
which the license is effective.
   B.   A liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company to do
business in the State of Illinois conforming to the requirements of this
section may be permitted in lieu of a bond.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-5: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Schedule Filed With The Director Of The Health And Licensing
Department: Every licensee shall file with the Director at the time of
application for license a complete schedule of rates and charges to be made for
storing or parking motor vehicles on the premises to be licensed.
   B.   Day And Night Rates: Where separate rates or charges are made for day
parking and night parking, the night rate shall become effective at six thirty
o’clock (6:30) P.M., and notice thereof shall be posted on the signs described
in section 4-15F-6 of this article.
   C.   Change In Rates:
      1.   No licensee shall make any charge for storing or parking any vehicle
in a parking lot or garage in excess of that set forth in his application for a
license unless and until he has notified the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department in writing of the new schedule of rates and posted signs
showing such increase in the same manner as required by subsection C2 of this
section.
      2.   Every application for a change in the schedule of rates or charges,
as filed under subsection A of this section, shall first be submitted in
writing to the Village Board, who shall hold hearings on the applications to
determine the necessity of the change. In making its decision, the Village
Board shall take into consideration, in each case where application is made,
operating and labor costs, increases in rental or maintenance costs, and such
other factors as may reasonably enter into the conduct of the business. If the
Village Board approves the proposed change in rates and charges, the schedule,
as filed, shall be amended.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-6: RATE AND HOUR SIGNS:
   A.   Required; Contents: Each licensee shall maintain at each entrance to a
parking lot or garage a permanently affixed sign suitable to apprise persons
using the same of the name of the licensee, the hours of the day or night when
such places are open for parking or storing motor vehicles, the rates charged
for periods of up to twenty four (24) consecutive hours and the closing hours
of the parking lot or garage.
   B.   Specifications For More Than One Rate: Where more than one rate is
charged for parking, the figures for each rate will be of the same size and
dimensions, and such figures shall measure not less than six inches (6") in
height. The letters and figures indicating the closing hours shall be not less
than six inches (6") in height. All such signs shall be subject to the approval
of the Director of Building and Code Enforcement or his representative.
   C.   Height; Interference With Traffic Prohibited: All signs shall be
erected at a height not less than ten feet (10') and not more than twelve feet
(12') above the sidewalk level, and shall not be erected in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-7: ADDITIONAL COMMERCIAL PARKING LOT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Separate Areas For Vehicles Charged A Fee And Vehicles Not Charged A
Fee:
      1.   The operator of a commercial parking lot or garage shall designate
separate areas within the parking lot or garage for the parking of motor
vehicles which are charged a parking fee and the parking of motor vehicles
which are not charged a parking fee. These areas may be changed from time to
time; provided, that at any time a motor vehicle is parked within the lot for
which a parking fee is charged, the operator of the parking lot or garage must
clearly delineate, by means of signs, markings or barriers, the areas within
the parking lot or garage where motor vehicles which are charged a parking fee
are to be parked and the areas within the parking lot or garage where motor
vehicles which are not charged a parking fee are to be parked.
      2.   The operator of a commercial parking lot or garage shall not allow
or permit any person who is charged a parking fee to park the motor vehicle in
any area within the parking lot or garage which is designated for the parking
of motor vehicles which are not charged a parking fee, nor shall the operator
of a commercial parking lot or garage allow or permit any person who is not
charged a parking fee to park the motor vehicle in any area of the parking lot
or garage designated for the parking of motor vehicles for which a parking fee
is charged.
   B.   Recordkeeping:
      1.   The operator of each commercial parking lot within the Village must
keep records for each day which show the number of vehicles parked in the
commercial parking lot or garage on that date for which a parking fee was
charged, the rate at which the fee was calculated, and the total amount of
parking fees collected by the operator on the date. These records shall also
include the records and tickets required to be kept by subsection C of this
section.
      2.   Entries in these records must be made on a daily basis and must
state the name, address and telephone number of each person who makes an entry
into the records.
      3.   These records must be kept by the operator for a period of not less
than one year and shall be made available for inspection upon written request
by the Village Finance Director or any other person authorized to inspect such
records on behalf of the Village by the Finance Director.
      4.   These records shall be maintained in addition to the records
operators are required to maintain by subsection
3-6A-3A of this Code.
   C.   Receipts And Tickets:
      1.   If a parking fee is collected at the time a motor vehicle enters a
commercial parking lot or garage, the operator must cause the person who is
driving the motor vehicle to be given a receipt which contains instructions
stating that the receipt is to be placed so that it is visible through the
front windshield of the motor vehicle. All such receipts issued at an entrance
to the parking lot or garage on a single day shall be numbered consecutively.
The operator of the commercial parking lot or garage shall maintain a record
showing the numbers of the receipts issued on each day as provided in
subsection B of this section.
      2.   If a parking fee is collected at the time a motor vehicle exits a
commercial parking lot or garage, then, at the time the motor vehicle is driven
into the commercial parking lot or garage, the operator of the commercial
parking lot or garage must provide for a ticket to be given to the person
driving the motor vehicle which is stamped with the date and time the motor
vehicle entered the parking lot or garage. This ticket must be collected and a
receipt given to the driver of the motor vehicle at the time the motor vehicle
exits from the parking lot or garage. The operator shall maintain the tickets
collected each day as provided in subsection B of this section.
   D.   Penalties: Any operator of a commercial parking lot or garage or other
person who shall violate any provisions of this section or who shall refuse,
neglect or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this section shall,
upon conviction of any such violation, refusal, neglect or failure to comply be
fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first offense and not less seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for the second and each subsequent offense within any one hundred
eighty (180) day period.
   E.   Closing Parking Lot Or Garage; Hearing:
      1.   In addition to the penalty provided by subsection D of this section,
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall be authorized to
order closed any commercial parking lot or garage if the operator of the
commercial parking lot or garage has been found by the Director to have
violated any provision of this section or to have refused, neglected, or failed
to comply with any of the requirements of this section on more than one day
within any one hundred eighty (180) day period.
      2.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall not issue
an order to close pursuant to this subsection unless the Director has first
conducted a hearing to determine whether the business ordered to close has
violated a provision of this section or has refused, neglected or failed to
comply with any of the requirements of this section on two (2) or more days
within a one hundred eighty (180) day period.
      3.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall give
notice of the hearing to the operator of the commercial parking lot or garage
as shown on the business application last filed with the Village. Such notice
shall be given not less than seven (7) days prior to the date of the hearing
and shall advise the operator of the date, time and place of the hearing and
shall state that the operator may appear at the hearing and present testimony
or other evidence.
      4.   The owner or operator of the commercial parking lot or garage shall
be entitled to be represented at the hearing by an attorney.
      5.   The Public Safety Department shall be and hereby is directed to seal
and take any and all other reasonable action necessary to close a commercial
parking lot or garage which has been ordered by the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department to close pursuant to the provisions of this subsection.
      6.   Any person who continues to operate a commercial parking lot or
garage which has been ordered closed by the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to a fine of
not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) nor more than two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) for each day or part thereof that the parking lot or garage
is operated after it has been ordered closed.
      7.   Any commercial parking lot or garage ordered closed pursuant to this
subsection shall remain closed for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days
the first time it is ordered closed and for a period of not less than three
hundred sixty five (365) days each subsequent time the commercial parking lot
or garage is ordered closed.
(Ord. 90-8-1C, 8-1-1990)
4-15F-8: CLAIM CHECKS; RETURN OF VEHICLE:
When a vehicle is left for storing or parking, the licensee of the parking lot
or garage, or his agent, servant or employee, shall furnish the owner or
operator of the vehicle with a distinctive claim check which shall have printed
thereon the full name and address of the parking lot or garage and a number
corresponding to a coupon placed upon the vehicle, and shall have written or
stamped thereon the date and license number of the motor vehicle. The licensee
shall not deliver any vehicle without the proper claim check being presented or
without satisfactory proof of ownership of the vehicle. This section shall not
apply where vehicles are stored or parked on a weekly or monthly fee basis.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-9: ENTRANCES, EXITS AND BARRIERS:
   A.   Entrances And Exits: Each parking lot or garage shall have one common
entrance and one common exit, which may or may not be combined, and the
operator of such parking lot or garage shall keep such entrance and exit
properly attended at all times during the period the parking lot or garage is
in operation.
   B.   Barriers:
      1.   Except for places of entrance and exit, every parking lot shall be
completely enclosed by barriers constructed and maintained so as to withstand
the shocks and stresses to which they will normally be subjected by vehicles
using the premises and shall be of such height as to engage the bumper of any
motor vehicle parked on the lot so that no portion of the vehicle shall extend
over the property lines.
      2.   When the lot abuts on a building, barriers shall be erected as
provided in this subsection to prevent motor vehicles from striking the
building.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-10: MAINTENANCE OF LOTS:
   A.   Sidewalks: Every operator of a parking lot or garage shall keep the
sidewalk surrounding the premises free from dirt, ice, sleet and snow, and
shall keep the sidewalk and driveways in a safe condition for the travel of
pedestrians.
   B.   Dust And Water: The ground or floor space of each parking lot or
garage, if made of dirt, sand, cinders or other loose mixture, shall at all
times be kept thoroughly sprinkled or treated with water, calcium chloride or
other means so that the dust, sand, cinders or other substance of which the
ground or floor space is made will not be raised, carried or blown by the wind,
movement of vehicles or other causes, into or upon public property or the
adjacent property of others. The surface or floor of the premises shall be
constructed so as to prevent retention of water thereon.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-11: FIRE PROTECTION:
Every parking lot or garage shall be equipped with proper fire extinguishing
apparatus subject to the approval of the Department of Public Safety, and all
vehicles shall be so parked or stored that they may be reached readily in case
of fire or other emergency.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-12: VEHICLE CARE AFTER CLOSING:
When vehicles are not called for at closing time, the attendant shall leave the
keys and parking coupon for safekeeping at a place within a reasonable distance
of the parking lot or garage, with a responsible person whose name and address
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-13: NOTICES OF CLAIMS AND UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   A.   Claims: Every licensee shall immediately notify the Department of
Public Safety of every claim made by reason of loss, theft, or conversion, or
any damage or injury to person or property from the operation of a parking lot
or garage, and occurring during the hours the premises is regularly open for
business. The obligation created by this subsection shall not extend beyond the
regular posted hours of attendance as posted upon the premises and printed upon
the regular receipt furnished to the owner or person parking a vehicle.
   B.   Unclaimed Vehicles: Every licensee shall immediately notify the
Department of Public Safety, in writing, of the license number, make, and the
name of the owner, if known to him, of every vehicle left in the parking lot or
garage for a period of more than forty eight (48) consecutive hours.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-14: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Refusing Vehicles: No licensee shall refuse to park or store any
vehicle for which there shall be accommodation in a parking lot or garage on
tender of the stated fee for such parking.
   B.   Unauthorized Use Or Removal Of Vehicles: No licensee of a parking lot
or garage shall make or permit any use for any purpose whatsoever of any
vehicle parked in such place, unless the use shall have first been expressly
authorized by the owner or person having control of the vehicle. No licensee
shall transfer, or cause to be moved or transferred, any parked vehicle through
or upon the streets or alleys of the Village without the written consent of the
owner or person having control of the vehicle.
   C.   Obstructing Streets Or Sidewalks: The loading or unloading of
passengers or drivers of vehicles across or upon a public sidewalk is hereby
expressly prohibited, and any operator or employee who, by receiving or
delivering vehicles other than within the property line of the parking lot or
garage, aids or assists in blocking any sidewalk or street and shall be deemed
to have violated the provisions of this article.
   D.   Affixing Coupons To License Plates: It shall be unlawful to affix any
parking coupon upon any vehicle so as to obliterate in whole or in part any
portion of the license plates on such vehicle.
   E.   Handbill Distribution: No person shall distribute literature or place
handbills in or upon any vehicle while parked in a parking lot or garage.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-15: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
In addition to those causes stated elsewhere in this title, any parking lot
license may be revoked for the following reasons, pursuant to the procedures
contained in chapter 1 of this title:
   A.   The licensee knowingly violates or knowingly permits or countenances
the violation of any provision of this article;
   B.   The licensee has made any charge for parking or storing a vehicle other
than those set forth in his license application;
   C.   The licensee knowingly violates or knowingly permits or countenances
the violation of any provision of any penal law or ordinance regarding theft,
larceny or conversion of a motor vehicle or the operation of a motor vehicle
without the owner’s consent, whether the licensee or other person has been
convicted of such offense or not; and
   D.   The licensee fails to keep an attendant on duty during the times
specified on his application.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15F-16:   MORATORIUM ON THE INSTALLATION OF NEW ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING
STATIONS IN PARKING GARAGE STRUCTURES:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Village of Rosemont's Code of
Ordinances or any applicable Building Code, there shall be a temporary
moratorium preventing the installation or approval or permitting of any new
electric vehicle charging station in any parking garage structure located in
the Village of Rosemont for the period from March 10, 2025 through and
including September 30, 2025. This moratorium is in place in order to protect
against the hazards caused by the risk of fires in electric vehicles while they
are being charged within a parking structure. Existing electric charging
stations located within parking structures prior to March 10, 2025 may continue
to operate. This moratorium may be extended if the electric vehicle industry
has not come up with safety improvements designed to sufficiently safeguard
against the occurrence of runaway fires in electric vehicles that are charging.
This section shall be applicable to both Commercial Parking Garages and all
other single-family and multi-family residential parking structures.
(Ord. 2025-3-10D, 3-10-2025)
 
ARTICLE G: MOTOR VEHICLE TOWING, STORAGE AND WRECKING
Section
4-15G-1:   Definitions
4-15G-2:   License Required
4-15G-3:   Qualifications Of Licensee
4-15G-4:   Application For License
4-15G-5:   Structural Evidence Required
4-15G-6:   License Fee
4-15G-7:   Contents Of License
4-15G-8:   Prohibited Locations
4-15G-9:   Towing Unauthorized Vehicles
4-15G-10:   Rules And Regulations For Maintenance Of Premises
4-15G-11:   Lost Or Stolen Vehicles
4-15G-12:   Inspections
4-15G-13:   Revocation Or Denial Of License
4-15G-14:   Penalty
4-15G-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AUTHORIZING A TOW: To authorize a tow or approve a tow by someone with
authority to authorize or approve a tow.
BUSINESS: The motor vehicle towing, storage and/or wrecking business.
FENCE: Any place for the purchase, reception or keeping of stolen goods or
motor vehicles.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Among other things, automobile, car, truck, bus, motorcycle,
motor bicycle, scooter, moped, van, carriage, cab, sedan, coupe, motorcar,
wagon, taxi and motorbus and all other species of self-propelled vehicles
operated by gasoline and/or any kind of oil, steam, electricity, alcohol,
gasohol or other substance or method that are operated on the public ways of
the Village of Rosemont.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or entity that has been
issued a license under this article, and their authorized agents.
OWNER: The owner, agent or lessee, or any other person in possession or in
control of the premises.
PERSON: Any natural person, partnership, corporation or towing firm.
PREMISES: The location at or on which is situated a motor vehicle towing,
storage and/or wrecking business.
STORAGE YARD OR WRECKING YARD: That enclosed area on the premises where towed
vehicles are stored, wrecked or demolished.
TOW: That event which takes place when the towing vehicle is attached to the
towed vehicle.
TOW VEHICLE: Any vehicle used by an operator or his/its authorized agent to tow
or otherwise transport a vehicle to the premises.
TOWING FIRM: Any individual, partnership, corporation, or association of
individuals in the business of towing vehicles.
UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any vehicle parked or abandoned on
private property without the consent of the property owner or his authorized
agent, or any vehicle parked or abandoned on private property in violation of
any provisions of this Code.
VILLAGE: The Village of Rosemont.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall be an operator of nor conduct “business”, as defined in
section 4-15G-1 of this article, without being first licensed for such purpose
by the Village. Licenses shall be issued on an annual basis.
   B.   Every person who shall keep, maintain or conduct more than one
“business”, as defined in section 4-15G-1 of this article, shall procure a
separate license for each such business. A separate business license shall be
procured by every prospective operator for each separate business located on
separate premises.
   C.   When a business located upon the same or contiguous or adjoining
premises is kept, maintained or conducted by the same person, such business
shall be considered as one business, and only one license shall be required
therefor.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall grant licenses to
such persons as shall produce to him satisfactory evidence of good character or
reputable standing to keep, maintain or conduct business in compliance with
this article.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a business license under this article shall be made in
conformity with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications
for licenses. In addition, the application shall describe the premises where
the business is to be conducted, shall state that the applicant will observe
and comply with all provisions of this Code now in force or which may hereafter
be passed respecting motor vehicle towing, storage, and/or wrecking businesses,
and shall meet all other requirements of this article.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-5: STRUCTURAL EVIDENCE REQUIRED:
Prior to the issuance of any license under this article, the prospective
operator shall present satisfactory evidence to the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department that there is constricted and maintained on the premises a
permanent, substantial, solid structure in accordance with the building
provisions of this Code and the Village with a minimum of one thousand (1,000)
square feet of area with adequate running water and plumbing facilities.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-6: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for an operator’s license shall be as set forth in the Village
Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1B of this Code.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983; amd. 2019 Code)
4-15G-7: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Every license granted to an operator shall designate the house, store, place,
building, warehouse, yard, or enclosure in which the person receiving the
license shall be authorized to conduct or operate such business, and such
business shall not be conducted or operated in any place other than the place
designated in the license.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-8: PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:
   A.   No person shall locate, establish, conduct or maintain any business
within four hundred feet (400') of a church, hospital, or public or parochial
school, such distance to be measured by the shortest straight line between the
business sought to be located, established, conducted or maintained, and any
such building used for the purpose of a church, hospital, or public or
parochial school.
   B.   No person shall locate, establish, conduct or maintain any business in
any block in which two-thirds (2/3) of the buildings on both sides of each
street are used exclusively for residence, or for residence and wholesale, or
retail store purposes, or exclusively for wholesale or retail store purposes,
without the written consent of the majority of the property owners according to
frontage on both sides of the street; provided, that in determining whether
two-thirds (2/3) of the buildings on both sides of the street in such block are
used exclusively for residence, or residence and wholesale, or retail store
purposes, any building fronting upon another street and located upon the corner
lot shall not be considered; and provided further, that the word “block”, as
used in this subsection, shall not be held to mean a square, but shall be held
to embrace only that part of the street in question which lies between the two
(2) nearest intersecting streets on either side of the lot on which such
business is to be located, established, maintained or conducted.
   C.   The written consent of the property owners shall be filed with the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department, who shall cause an inspection
of the premises to be made and shall cause a verification of such written
consents of the property owners to be made, and if, upon such inspection and
verification, the Director shall find that there has been compliance with this
section, this Code and the ordinances of the Village in respect to buildings,
he shall issue a license for the location, establishment, conduct or
maintenance of such business after receipt of the applicable fee under this
article.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-9: TOWING UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES:
   A.   Notice Of Tow; Information Required: Within one-half (1/2) hour after
towing any unauthorized vehicle from private property, any person towing a
vehicle from private property or his agent or employee shall notify the
Department of Public Safety by using the emergency Department of Public Safety
telephone number to report the year, make, model and State license plate number
of the vehicle, and the location from which the vehicle was towed. In addition
to this notification, within twenty four (24) hours after towing an
unauthorized vehicle from private property, the towing firm or its agent shall
submit a written report to the Superintendent of Public Safety containing the
following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the towing firm and of the
person or persons making the tow;
      2.   State license plate number of the vehicle towed;
      3.   Color, make, and model of the towed vehicle;
      4.   Date and time of towing;
      5.   Address of place from which the vehicle was towed;
      6.   Names and addresses of any witnesses to the towing;
      7.   Name of the person with whom the towing agreement was made;
      8.   Address of the place where the vehicle is stored; and
      9.   State license plate number of the tow truck which made the tow.
   B.   Consent To Tow; Exceptions: Before a towing firm may remove an
unauthorized vehicle from private property, the firm must first obtain written
consent from the owner of the private property or his authorized agent to
remove the specific vehicle in question, unless the firm has an agreement to
remove all unauthorized vehicles from said private property. This subsection
shall not apply to driveways or parking areas that serve three (3) cars or
fewer.
   C.   Agreement For Towing: When any owner enters into an agreement with a
towing firm to remove unauthorized vehicles from his private parking area,
before a tow is made, the towing firm shall post a notice of this arrangement
prominently at all entrances and exits to the parking areas, in clear view,
free from interference from any natural or manmade objects. The lettering on
these signs shall be in prominent type at least three inches (3") high, and in
a color that contrasts with the background color of the sign. The sign must
also be legible at night. The sign shall contain the following information:
      1.   A general statement indicating who is allowed to park in the area.
The statement may use classes of persons as well as individuals;
      2.   A warning that unauthorized vehicles will be towed;
      3.   The name, address, and telephone number of the towing firm and the
location to which the car will be towed, if different;
      4.   The fee charged by the towing firm to recover the vehicle and
whether cash, check or credit cards will be accepted in payment.
   D.   Voluntary Removal By Owner: No vehicle may be towed by any person from
private property if the owner or other person entitled to possession of the
vehicle is present and offers to remove the vehicle voluntarily prior to the
time such person attempting to tow removes the vehicle from the premises in
question; provided, that the owner or other person so removes the vehicle
immediately thereupon.
   E.   Insurance Requirements: No person shall tow any vehicle from private
property nor shall any person accept in storage a vehicle towed from private
property unless, at the time of the tow, there shall be insurance in effect in
the name of such person covering damage in an amount required by the Village.
   F.   Penalties: Any person, or any officer of any corporation, or any
partner or any partnership making a tow or authorizing a tow in violation of
any provisions of this section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the
first offense and not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) nor more
than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for the second each
subsequent offense. Repeated offenses in excess of three (3) may also be
punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration in the County Jail for a term not
to exceed six (6) months under the procedure set forth in section 1-2-1.1 of
the Illinois Municipal Code and under the provisions of the Illinois Code of
Criminal Procedure (725 ILCS 5/100-1 et seq.) in a separate proceeding. Any
person or any officer of any corporation, if such person is a corporation and
the corporation has been guilty of such repeated offenses, or any partner of
any partnership, if such person is a partnership and the partnership has been
guilty of such repeated offenses, shall be subject to incarceration as
aforesaid.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-10: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES:
   A.   Nuisance And Health Conditions:
      1.   The premises shall at all times be maintained so as not to
constitute a nuisance or menace to the health, safety, welfare and/or morals of
the community or residents nearby or a place for the breeding of rodents and
vermin.
      2.   All premises shall be kept in a clean condition, free from any
nuisance; also, free as far as practicable, from all gases, vapors, dust, or
other impurities generated by wrecking or demolition processes or the operation
of motors or other machinery, or otherwise, which are injurious to health.
   B.   Storage Of Garbage, Refuse And Flammables: No garbage or other organic
waste and no paper, rubbish, tags or other flammable articles or materials
shall be stored in or on the premises.
   C.   Stagnant Water And Access To Firefighters: The manner of storage,
wrecking, demolition and arrangement of motor vehicles on the premises shall be
such as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water, gasoline and oil upon
the premises, and to facilitate access for firefighting purposes.
   D.   Enclosed Premises: All outdoor storage facilities shall be enclosed in
a substantial, solid, secure, nontransparent fence not less than eight feet
(8') nor more than ten feet (10') high. Such enclosure shall at all times be
painted and kept in good order.
   E.   Containment Of Wastes Or Materials: No materials or wastes shall be
deposited on the premises in such form or manner that they may be transferred
off such premises by natural causes or forces.
   F.   Storage Of Vehicles In Front Of Enclosure: No motor vehicles shall be
stored or wrecked in front of the enclosure provided in subsection D of this
section.
   G.   Burning: No person shall burn on the premises any material, including
rubber tires, batteries and rubber from wires which may cause fumes or odors
injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the community.
   H.   Compliance With Fire Regulations: All businesses shall be conducted and
operated in accordance with the fire regulations of this Code and shall be
inspected by the Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Fire Suppression or his duly
authorized representative at least once every six (6) months.
   I.   Sanitation Facilities: Sufficient and separate water closets shall be
provided for male and female employees on the premises, and such water closet
compartments shall be properly ventilated.
   J.   Recordkeeping: It is hereby made the duty of each operator to keep for
public inspection a record of the license numbers and engine numbers of all
motor vehicles taken in or held in charge by the operator for the purpose of
sale, rental, livery, storage, or repair.
   K.   Inspections: The Village shall inspect all such premises within the
Village as often as it shall deem necessary to see that there is compliance
with the provisions of this article, and if it finds such premises in an
unsanitary or unsafe condition, it shall require such alterations or
arrangements to be made as may be necessary for the safety and health of the
employees, pursuant to the provisions of this article, other provisions of this
Code, and such laws of the State as may be in force concerning health and
sanitary measures.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-11: LOST OR STOLEN VEHICLES:
   A.   Every operator who shall receive or be in possession of any goods,
articles, things, or motor vehicles which may have been lost or stolen, or are
alleged or supposed to have been lost or stolen, shall forthwith on demand
exhibit the same to any member of the Department of Public Safety.
   B.   Whenever there shall be filed with the Department of Public Safety, by
the operator, or authorized agent of the operator, a sworn written statement
that the operator or the agent has reason to believe that certain stolen motor
vehicles, goods or things specifically described in the sworn statement are in
the possession of any operator, any member of the Department of Public Safety
shall have the right to inspect the premises of the operator at any reasonable
hour and view all motor vehicles, goods or things which have been towed,
received, collected, or stored in the premises occupied by the business.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-12: INSPECTIONS:
The places of business and all motor vehicles towed, collected or stored by any
operator shall, at all reasonable times, be subject to inspection by the
Village or any member of the Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-13: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   The license of any operator who shall have been convicted of keeping,
maintaining or conducting a “fence” shall, upon such conviction, be revoked by
the Village, as provided in this title.
   B.   No person who shall have been convicted of keeping, maintaining or
conducting a “fence” shall be granted a license as an operator during the
period of one year after such conviction.
   C.   No corporation which shall have been convicted of keeping, maintaining
or conducting a “fence” shall be granted a license as an operator during the
period of one year after such conviction.
   D.   No corporation, any one of whose officers, stockholders or employees
has been convicted of keeping, maintaining or conducting a “fence” shall be
granted a license as an operator during a period of one year after such
conviction, unless the corporation shall produce satisfactory evidence to the
Village that the officer, stockholder or employee has disposed of his entire
interest in the corporation and has completely severed his connection with the
corporation.
   E.   Every person applying for a license as an operator shall state in his
written application, under oath, that he has not kept, maintained or conducted,
and that he has not been convicted of keeping, maintaining or conducting, a
“fence” within one year prior to the date of the application.
   F.   Every corporation making application for a license as an operator shall
state in its written application through an authorized agent, under oath, that
it has not, nor has any of its officers, stockholders or employees kept,
maintained or conducted and that it has not, nor has any of its officers,
stockholders or employees been convicted of keeping, maintaining or conducting
a “fence” during the period of one year prior to the date of the application.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
4-15G-14: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article, where no
other penalty is provided, shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense, and every day on which such violation continues shall be regarded as
constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 83-1-5F, 1-5-1983)
ARTICLE H: GAS STATIONS
Section
4-15H-1:   Definitions
4-15H-2:   License Required
4-15H-3:   Application For License
4-15H-4:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-15H-5:   Insurances Required; Bond In Lieu
4-15H-6:   Location
4-15H-7:   Waste Storage And Disposal
4-15H-8:   Construction, Equipment And Safety
4-15H-9:   Metal Lockers Required
4-15H-10:   Restricted And Prohibited Acts
4-15H-11:   Self-Service Gas Stations
4-15H-12:   Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-15H-1: DEFINITIONS:
The term “gas station”, as used in this article, is hereby defined as any
building, structure, premises, enclosure, or other place within the Village
where a container or containers, tank or tanks, either portable or stationary,
and containing ether, carbon bisulfite, gasoline, naphtha, benzol, hydrocarbon
(gas drips), liquefied petroleum gas, acetone, kerosene, turpentine, or other
flammable liquids having a flashpoint below one hundred sixty five degrees
Fahrenheit (165°F) are kept or located for the purpose of selling, offering for
sale, or distributing any such liquids from such container or tank; provided,
however, that the provisions of this article shall not apply to any place where
such flammable liquids are kept or sold for medicinal purposes only.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a gas station without first having
obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses. The applicant
shall also specify the capacity in gallons of every container or tank installed
or to be installed upon the premises.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Every application shall be investigated by the Public Safety Department and
Director of Building and Code Enforcement to determine whether there is
compliance with the applicable provisions of this Code and the approval of such
officers noted thereon, before a license shall be issued.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-5: INSURANCES REQUIRED; BOND IN LIEU:
   A.   Every applicant for a license under this article shall carry public
liability and property damage insurance and workers’ compensation insurance for
employees with responsible insurers authorized to transact insurance business
in the State of Illinois, to secure payment of any loss or damage resulting
from an occurrence arising out of or caused by the operation of the business
herein licensed as required by the Village. Said insurance shall provide for
the payment and satisfaction of any final judgment rendered against the owner
or operator of a licensed business, and that suit may be brought in any court
of competent jurisdiction upon such policy by any person having claims arising
from the operation of such business.
   B.   In lieu of an insurance policy or contract, a surety bond or bonds with
a corporate surety or sureties authorized to do business under the laws of the
State of Illinois may be accepted for all or any part of such insurance;
provided, that each bond shall be conditioned for the payment and satisfaction
of any final judgment in conformity with the provisions of an insurance policy
as required by this section.
(Ord. 76-11-3A, 11-3-1976)
4-15H-6: LOCATION:
   A.   Prohibited Locations: No tank, container, pipe or other equipment for
the storage and handling of flammable liquids shall be installed within two
hundred feet (200') of the nearest boundary of any lot or plot of ground used
for a school, hospital, church, or theater.
   B.   Frontage Consents Required: No person shall locate, construct, or
maintain any gas station in connection with which there is installed any tank
for the storage of flammable liquids on any lot or plot of ground without first
obtaining the written consents of the property owners representing the majority
of the total frontage in feet of any lot or plot of ground lying wholly or in
part within lines one hundred fifty feet (150') distant from and parallel to
the boundaries of the entire lot or plot of ground to be used for and with such
gas station, driveways and enclosing fences, if any; provided, however, that
for the purpose of this section, only the frontage of any such lot or plot of
ground or that part of the frontage of any part of such lot or plot of ground
as comes within the one hundred fifty foot (150') limit herein prescribed shall
be considered; and provided, further, that any and all petitions containing
such consents of property owners shall be based on and contain the legal
description of the property affected, and that, for the purposes of this
section, whenever the lot or plot of ground in which such tank is to be
installed is in any shape other than a rectangle, the one hundred fifty foot
(150') limiting line aforementioned shall not exceed in distance one hundred
fifty feet (150') from any point of the boundaries of such lot or plot of
ground.
   C.   Change Of Location: If any person licensed to engage in the business of
a gas station shall, before the expiration of such license, desire to change
the location of the business engaged in thereunder, the licensee shall notify
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department, and shall furnish all of
the information which is required to be furnished on an original application
for a license. Every such application for change of location shall be approved
by the Superintendent of Public Safety and the Director of Building and Code
Enforcement before a change in location shall be authorized, and the new
location shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as are
prescribed for the premises for which the license was first issued.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-7: WASTE STORAGE AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Waste oil or other flammable liquids shall be stored in metal
containers pending removal from the premises.
   B.   No such waste shall be permitted to drain into any sewers or stormwater
drainage system.
   C.   Rags and soiled waste shall be kept in metal containers.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-8: CONSTRUCTION, EQUIPMENT AND SAFETY CLEARANCES:
The construction and equipment of gas stations, including tanks and the
requirements for safety clearances around same, shall be made and maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this Code regulating buildings and flammable
liquids.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-9: METAL LOCKERS REQUIRED:
Lockers for employee clothing shall be of metal.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-10: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Smoking: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit smoking in any
gas station.
   B.   Use Of Flammable Liquids: Gasoline, benzine, naphtha and similar
flammable liquids shall not be used for washing or cleaning purposes within any
gas station nor in the open air within a distance of fifty feet (50') of any
repair pit or any opening from any basement space.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-15H-11: SELF-SERVICE GAS STATIONS:
   A.    Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, firm, partnership, association
or group, trust or beneficiary thereof.
   SELF-SERVICE STATION: That portion of property where flammable and
combustible liquids used as motor fuels are stored and subsequently dispensed
from fixed approved dispensing equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles
by persons other than the service station attendant.
   B.   Self-Service Dispensing Devices Permitted; Supervision: Approved self-
service dispensing devices are permitted at service stations available and open
to the public; provided, that all dispensing of motor fuels, except LPG, by a
person other than the service station attendant, is under the supervision and
control of a qualified attendant, and the dispensing nozzle is a listed
automatic losing type without a latch-open device.
   C.   Permit Required; Display Of Permit: No self-service station shall open
for business without first having a permit therefor, which permit must be
displayed prominently at all times at such self-service station.
   D.   Investigation of Applicant; Conditions Of Permit: Every application
shall be investigated by the Superintendent of Public Safety and the Director
of Building and Code Enforcement to determine whether there is compliance with
the applicable provisions of this Code and the approval of such offices noted
thereon, before a permit shall be issued. No such permit may be issued unless
the applicant has been issued a gas station license in accordance with the
provisions of this Code.
   E.   Rules: The following rules shall be followed and observed at all self-
service stations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to provide for or use live-in facilities or
accommodations for the benefit of any owner, operator or employee of a self-
service station on the premises of the station.
      2.   All self-service stations shall have at least one attendant on duty
while the station is open to the public. The attendant’s primary function shall
be to supervise, observe and control the dispensing of Class I liquids while
said liquids are actually being dispensed. This shall not be interpreted as
prohibiting a split-island type of operation.
      3.   The dispensing area shall at all times be in clear view of the
attendant, and the placing or allowing of any obstacle to come between the
dispensing area and the attendant control area shall be prohibited. The
attendant shall at all times be able to communicate with persons in the
dispensing area.
      4.   The attendant shall have immediate access to emergency cutoff
switches provided at a location removed from the dispensing devices, which
location shall be subject to approval by the Department of Public Safety.
      5.   The attendant shall supervise the dispensing of motor fuels, shall
refuse service to any person who is smoking or who appears, for any reason, to
be unable to dispense the motor fuel safely, and shall shut off the dispensing
unit if a patron fails to follow instructions in compliance with this section.
      6.   All attendants and other employees shall be thoroughly instructed in
the operation and use of the communication system, the control station, the
fire extinguishing equipment, the operation of the dispensing units and safety
regulations for the dispensing of motor fuels.
      7.   For minimum safety standards for the location and operation of self-
service dispensing units, dispensing pumps shall be located a minimum of ten
feet (10') inside station property lines and a maximum of five feet (5') from
any building opening.
      8.   Gasoline dispensing nozzles shall not be of the “latch-open type”.
      9.   At least one type ABC file extinguisher, with a capacity of ten (10)
pounds, shall be at the attendant’s control station.
      10.   Conspicuous and legible signs prohibiting smoking and directing
customers to turn off ignitions while dispensing motor fuel shall be posted and
maintained. The lettering on such signs shall be red on white background and
not less than four inches (4") in height. The signs shall be made of an all-
weather rigid material. The wording, lettering, size, design, material,
mounting and location of the signs shall be subject to the approval of the
Department of Public Safety.
      11.   Dispensing units shall be mounted either on a concrete island or
protected against collision damage by suitable means in a manner approved by
the Department of Public Safety.
      12.   No portable containers of more than six (6) gallons shall be filled
with gasoline, except as dispensed directly into the fuel tanks attached to a
motor vehicle. All portable receptacles for gasoline shall be red and shall be
labeled in letters of a contrasting color and a height of not less than one-
half inches (1/2"), and it shall be unlawful to put any other liquids or oils,
except gasoline, in such receptacles are so painted and labeled “gasoline”. In
all circumstances, the container shall be metal.
(Ord. 77-3-16A, 3-16-1977)
4-15H-12: INSPECTIONS:
Gas stations shall be inspected by the designated Village personnel.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 16: BUSINESSES DEALING WITH FLAMMABLE, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
ARTICLE A: FLAMMABLE AND HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS
Section
4-16A-1:   Acetylene Gas
4-16A-1-1:   Generation Of Acetylene Gas
4-16A-1-2:   Portable Generators Of Acetylene Gas
4-16A-1-3:   Compression Or Sale Of Acetylene Gas
4-16A-2:   Generation Or Compression Of Hydrogen Or Oxygen
4-16A-3:   Storage Of Calcium Carbide
4-16A-4:   Nitrocellulose And Nitrocellulose Products
4-16A-5:   Miscellaneous Flammables And Hazardous Materials
4-16A-6:    Investigations, Inspections And Tests
4-16A-7:   Revocation Of Licenses
Cross-reference:
   See subsections
3-10-1  of this Code for license and permit fees
4-16A-1: ACETYLENE GAS:
4-16A-1-1: GENERATION OF ACETYLENE GAS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall generate acetylene gas in any form of
generator, holder, container or associated apparatus at a pressure of not to
exceed fifteen (15) pounds to the square inch in the generator without first
obtaining a license therefor.
   B.   Application For License: An application for said license shall be in
writing and shall conform to the general requirements of this title relating to
applications for licenses, and shall set forth the proposed location of the
generator or generators, together with the name and type of generator or
generators to be used.
   C.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon receipt of such application, the
Superintendent of Public Safety shall make or cause to be made an investigation
for the purpose of ascertaining whether the generator or generators are of a
type and so located that they would not be so dangerous as to constitute a
nuisance or be a menace to the safety of the employees, the public, or the
adjoining property.
   D.   Regulations:
      1.   Marking Generators: Generators shall be plainly marked with the
maximum rate in cubic feet of acetylene per hour for which they are designed,
the amount of carbide necessary for a single charge, the manufacturer's name
and address, and the name and number of the type of machine.
      2.   Warning Cards: Printed warning and instruction cards provided by the
maker shall be posted in a conspicuous position near the generator so that the
operator may consult them conveniently from time to time.
      3.   Repairs: Any necessary repairs to the generator or system shall be
made during daylight hours by natural light or by the fixed lights in the
generator room. The use of portable lights is strictly prohibited.
      4.   Appliances: All blow torches, regulators and other appliances shall
be maintained in good condition at all times. No appliances shall be installed
in any line which causes or allows the mixture of air or other oxygen carrier
with acetylene, except directly at the torch or burner. The use of an expansion
tank or tanks in any part of the system is prohibited.
      5.   Housing Generators: Stationary acetylene gas generators shall be
installed in a suitable building which shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the building provisions of this Code applicable to buildings
housing such apparatus.
   E.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section relating to
the generation of acetylene gas shall not apply to portable generators used
exclusively for lighting, to generators used in connection with vehicle
lighting, or to plants devoted to the manufacture and compression of dissolved
acetylene for sale purposes.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16A-1-2: PORTABLE GENERATORS OF ACETYLENE GAS:
   A.   Definition: The term “portable generator”, as used in this section, is
hereby defined as an acetylene generator, of not more than thirty (30) pounds
carbide capacity, which has been approved for portable use by the Underwriters
Laboratories.
   B.   Permit Required; Inspection; Issuance: Portable generators shall not be
installed or used inside of buildings unless a permit for such use in said
location shall first be secured. It shall be the duty of the Deputy Chief of
the Bureau of Fire Suppression to inspect the premises wherein such generator
is to be used before issuing such permit. Should the inspection show that there
is compliance with the provisions of this section, the Deputy Chief shall issue
a permit for such installation and use.
   C.   Location In Rooms:
      1.   Portable generators shall not be used in rooms of total volume less
than thirty five (35) times the nominal aggregate gas generating capacity, per
hour, of all such generators in the room.
      2.   Portable generators shall not be used in any room containing
flammable liquids or gases, or in which any dust producing process is carried
on, or in which any highly combustible or explosive materials are contained.
Portable generators shall not be used in any poorly ventilated room.
   D.   Restrictions On Operation:
      1.   Before any cutting or welding operation begins, the floor shall be
swept clean and, if of wood, shall be sprinkled with water. The scene of such
work shall be inspected thirty (30) minutes after every such cutting or welding
operation, and all smoldering sparks shall be extinguished.
      2.   Extra gas cylinders shall not be stored in the same room in which a
portable generator is used.
      3.   Generators shall be cleaned and recharged and the air mixture shall
be blown off outside of the building. Generators, when charged, shall not be
moved by crane or derrick. When not in use, they shall not be stored in any
room in which open lights or fires are used unless free of carbide and
thoroughly purged of gas.
      4.   Storage rooms for portable generators shall be thoroughly
ventilated.
      5.   Cutting or welding operations shall not be carried on within ten
feet (10') of any combustible material other than the floor.
      6.   Generators shall not be placed where water will freeze. Salt or
other corrosive chemicals shall not be used as a protection against freezing.
      7.   Not more than one cutting or welding flame shall be used with any
portable generator unless permanently attached and piped.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16A-1-3: COMPRESSION OR SALE OF ACETYLENE GAS:
   A.   License Required: Except as herein otherwise provided, no person shall
engage in the business of collecting or compressing acetylene gas at any
pressure in excess of fifteen (15) pounds to the square inch, or of selling or
distributing acetylene gas at any pressure in excess of fifteen (15) pounds to
the square inch, or of selling or distributing acetylene gas under pressure,
unless such person shall have first procured a license so to do.
   B.   Application For License: An application for the license shall be made
in conformity with the general requirements of this title relating to
applications for licenses. The application shall set forth the location and
description of the building in which such business is to be carried on.
   C.   The application shall be referred to the Department of Public Safety,
which shall cause an inspection to be made to determine whether the location,
buildings, premises, machinery and equipment comply with the provisions of this
Code applicable thereto.
   D.   Nontransferability Of License: Every license shall be nontransferable
and shall be good only at the location named in the license.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16A-2: GENERATION OR COMPRESSION OF HYDROGEN OR OXYGEN:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to generate or
compress oxygen or hydrogen in any form of generator, holder, container, or
associated apparatus without first obtaining a license so to do.
   B.   Application For License: An application for the license shall be made
in conformity with the general requirements of this title relating to
applications for licenses and shall give the proposed location of such
generator or generators, holders, containers and associated apparatus, together
with the name and type of the equipment to be used.
   C.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon receipt of the application, the
Department of Public Safety shall cause to be made an investigation for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the apparatus and equipment is of such type and
so located that it would not constitute a nuisance or be a menace to the safety
of the employees or to the public or to adjoining property.
   D.   Oxygen Containers:
      1.   Cylinders of oxygen shall never be stored in the same room or
compartment used for the storage of calcium carbide, or cylinders containing
fuel gases, or in an acetylene generator compartment.
      2.   Cylinders of oxygen, except those in actual use, shall be stored
away from highly flammable material, especially oil, grease or any substance
likely to cause or accelerate fire.
      3.   Cylinders of oxygen shall be stored in locations where they are not
likely to be stuck by passing or falling objects.
      4.   Cylinders of oxygen shall be protected against excessive rise of
temperature, may be stored in the open, but in such cases, shall be protected
against extremes of weather and during winter, if stored in the open, shall be
protected against accumulations of ice or snow.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16A-3: STORAGE OF CALCIUM CARBIDE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store
calcium carbide in excess of six hundred (600) pounds within the Village
without first obtaining a license so to do for each location where such
quantity of calcium carbide is to be kept or stored.
   B.   Application For License: An application for the license shall be made
in writing and shall conform to the general provisions of this title relating
to applications for licenses. The application shall set forth the location,
plans and description of the building in which such calcium carbide is to be
kept or stored, and the quantity to be so stored.
   C.   Approval Of Application; Issuance Of License; Fee: Every application
shall be approved by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement and the
Department of Public Safety before a license is issued. If it shall appear from
the application so filed and approved that the premises in which the applicant
proposes to keep or store such calcium carbide conforms to the requirements of
this Code, then, upon the payment by the applicant to the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department of the license fee as set forth in the Village
Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1B of this Code, entry reading “flammable and
hazardous chemical handling”, there shall be issued a license authorizing the
applicant to keep and store calcium carbide in the place designated in the
license for the period therein stated.
   D.    Method Of Storage:
      1. Calcium carbide in quantities not to exceed six hundred (600) pounds
may be stored, when contained in approved metal packages, inside of buildings
used for other purposes; provided, that the place of storage shall be dry,
waterproof and well ventilated; and provided also, that all but one of the
packages of each size of carbide shall be sealed, and the seals shall not be
broken so long as there is carbide in excess of one pound in any other unsealed
package in the building.
      2. Calcium carbide in excess of six hundred (600) pounds shall be stored
in accordance with the building provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16A-4: NITROCELLULOSE AND NITROCELLULOSE PRODUCTS:
   A.   Definition: The term "nitrocellulose products", when used in this
section, is hereby defined to mean any substance, material or compound having
soluble cotton, or similar nitrocellulose, as a basis, including pyralin,
celluloid, viscoloid, X-ray film, and similar materials and compounds by
whatever name known, whether the raw or finished product, excepting motion
picture films.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture,
store or keep any nitrocellulose products in excess of twenty five (25) pounds
without first obtaining a license therefor.
   C.   Application For License: An application for the license shall be made
in conformity with the general requirements of this Code relating to
applications for licenses, and shall state the amount and kind of
nitrocellulose products to be stored or manufactured and the address where same
shall be kept.
   D.   Regulations:
      1.   Location: It shall be unlawful for any person to store or
manufacture nitrocellulose products in any building which is situated within
one hundred feet (100') of any building occupied as a school building, hospital
or any other place of public assembly or amusement.
      2.   Heating Products: Softening or heating nitrocellulose products when
not done by hot water shall be done on steam or electric heaters, dies, and so
forth, with at least six inches (6") clearance to all combustible material.
      3.   Machinery Used:
         a.   Stamping, perforating and similar machines shall be equipped with
a metal receptacle containing water for receiving waste material.
         b.   Metal receptacles with automatic or self-closing covers shall be
provided for nitrocellulose scraps and clippings, and said scraps and clippings
shall be removed from the premises each evening and disposed of in a manner
approved by the Department of Public Safety.
   E.   Inspections: The Department of Public Safety shall cause to be
inspected the building, process of manufacture, and storage of nitrocellulose
products at the premises described in the application to determine whether
there has been compliance with the provisions of this Code applicable thereto.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16A-5: MISCELLANEOUS FLAMMABLES AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Liquid Acetylene: The manufacture, transportation, storage, sale or use
of liquefied acetylene is hereby prohibited within the corporate limits of the
Village.
   B.   Chlorine Gas:
      1.   The sale, storage, use or handling of chlorine gas is hereby
prohibited within the limits of the Village unless chlorine gas is stored in
buildings constructed and maintained in accordance with the building provisions
of this Code in containers constructed in compliance with the Interstate
Commerce Commission rules and regulations.
      2.   No combustible material of any kind shall be placed or kept in any
room or building used for the storage of chlorine gas.
   C.   Corrosive Liquids:
      1.   No corrosive liquids shall be stored in any building other than a
corrosive liquids storage building constructed as required by this Code, except
as otherwise provided by this subsection.
      2.   It shall be permissible to store corrosive liquids in one or more
standard fireproof vaults in any building other than a corrosive liquids
storage building.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16A-6: INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS AND TESTS:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall have power to make or
cause to be made all investigations, inspections and tests which are necessary
to enforce the provisions of this article, and all buildings, rooms, premises
and equipment mentioned and referred to in this article shall comply with the
applicable provisions of the Fire Code and, for the enforcement of this
article, shall be open at all times to periodical inspection, investigation and
tests by the Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16A-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
Any license which may be granted under the provisions of this article may, upon
recommendation of the Superintendent of Public Safety or otherwise, be revoked
for any good and sufficient cause.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE B: STORAGE AND HANDLING OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
Section
4-16B-1:   License Required; Exemptions
4-16B-2:   Application For License
4-16B-3:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-16B-4:   Insurances Required; Bond In Lieu
4-16B-5:   Regulations
4-16B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
No person shall keep on hand or store for use in any business any flammable
liquid having a flashpoint below one hundred eighty seven degrees Fahrenheit
(187°F) (86°C), closed cup tester, without first procuring a license so to do
for each location, place or premises where such person keeps on hand or stores
for use any such flammable liquid. Provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall require any gasoline station; dry cleaner and spotter; drug,
chemical or paint factory; drug, chemical or paint store; fuel oil dealer; fuel
oil storer; wholesale gasoline dealer; retail hardware store; or retail paint
store, duly licensed under any other provisions of this Code, to obtain a
license hereunder.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16B-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses and, in
addition, the applicant shall state the location of the place at which it is
desired or intended to store flammable liquids for use in the applicant's
business, the maximum aggregate quantity to be so stored for use, and shall
give a description of the business in which engaged, the location and capacity
of all containers or tanks having a capacity of fifty (50) gallons or more for
the storage of any flammable liquid, and such other information as may be
required by the Superintendent of Public Safety.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16B-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The Superintendent of Public Safety, upon receipt of such application, shall
investigate or cause to be investigated the place of business described in such
application and the methods and equipment intended to be used by the applicant.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16B-4: INSURANCES REQUIRED; BOND IN LIEU:
   A.   Every applicant for a license under this article shall carry public
liability and property damage insurance and workers' compensation insurance for
employees with responsible insurers, authorized to transact insurance business
in the State of Illinois, to secure payment of any loss or damage resulting
from an occurrence arising out of or caused by the operation of the business
herein licensed in an amount as required by the Village. Said insurance shall
provide for the payment and satisfaction of any final judgment rendered against
the owner or operator of a licensed business, and that suit may be brought in
any court of competent jurisdiction upon such policy by any person having
claims arising from the operation of such business.
   B.   In lieu of an insurance policy or contract, a surety bond or bonds with
a corporate surety or sureties authorized to do business under the laws of the
State of Illinois may be accepted for all or any part of such insurance;
provided, that each bond shall be conditioned for the payment and satisfaction
of any final judgment, in conformity with the provisions of an insurance policy
as required by this section.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-16B-5: REGULATIONS:
   A.   All containers, tanks and other equipment used for the storage or use
of flammable liquids and all buildings and premises wherein the same are stored
or used shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the provisions
of the fire prevention provisions of this Code.
   B.   Every container or tank for flammable liquids of a capacity of fifty
(50) gallons or more, either aboveground or within a building, and the premises
and equipment used for the storage or handling of flammable liquids by any
person subject to license under this article, shall be inspected by the Chief
of Public Safety, or his duly authorized representative, at least once each
year.
   C.   Rags and soiled waste shall be kept in metal containers pending removal
from the premises.
   D.   No person shall smoke in that part of any premises where flammable
liquids having a flashpoint below one hundred eighty seven degrees Fahrenheit
(187°F) (86°C), closed cup tester, are stored or handled.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-197 5)
CHAPTER 17: PYROTECHNIC DISPLAYS
Section
4-17-1:   Definitions
4-17-2:   License Required; Authority To Issue
4-17-3:   Compliance With Applicable Laws; Conditions Of License Issuance
4-17-4:   Application For License
4-17-5:   License Fee
4-17-6:   Insurances Required
4-17-7:   Inspections
4-17-8:   Rules And Regulations
4-17-9:   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   See also subsection
4-7A-5 G of this title
4-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FIREWORKS: Any explosive composition or any substance or combination of
substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons in
which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire underneath
to propel the same; firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, roman candles, bombs
or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any
explosive compound; or any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual effects. The
term FIREWORKS shall not include snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices;
sparklers; trick noisemakers known as “party poppers”, “booby traps”,
“snappers”, “trick matches”, “cigarette loads” and “auto burglar alarms”; toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of explosive compound
are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact
with the cap when in place for the explosion, and toy pistol paper or plastic
caps which contain less than twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain of explosive
mixture, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY: Any use of pyrotechnics which occurs on property that is
not owned by the Village of Rosemont.
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY LICENSE: A license which is issued by the Village of
Rosemont Department of Public Safety pursuant to section 4-17-2 of this chapter
which permits a person to present a pyrotechnic display.
PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: Each company, association or person who will have direct
supervision over a pyrotechnic display, or direct supervision of a component of
a pyrotechnic display, such as furnishing the pyrotechnic materials or
providing or operating the equipment to be used in a pyrotechnic display.
Persons who are employees of a pyrotechnic operator shall not be considered to
be separate pyrotechnic operators.
PYROTECHNIC OR PYROTECHNICS: FIREWORKS, as defined in this section, smoke
machines, fog machines, light show displays utilizing lasers and other
materials or combination of materials utilized or intended to be utilized to
generate or simulate light beams, explosions, smoke or noise. PYROTECHNICS do
not include any item which is excluded from the definition of FIREWORKS, as set
forth in this section.
SMOKE MACHINE: A machine which generates smoke, haze or a similar airborne
substances which is intended to simulate smoke or haze. SMOKE MACHINES include,
but are not limited to, machines commonly referred to as “haze machines”.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998)
4-17-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; AUTHORITY TO ISSUE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to present a pyrotechnic display or
use pyrotechnics in any manner within the Village, except on property that is
owned by the Village, unless the Department of Public Safety has issued a
pyrotechnics display license which permits the pyrotechnic display or use of
pyrotechnics.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in control of any
property, other than property owned by the Village, to permit a pyrotechnic
display to occur on the property or to allow pyrotechnics to be used on the
property unless a pyrotechnics display license has been issued for such use by
the Department of Public Safety.
   C.   Pyrotechnic display licenses shall be issued, by the Village Department
of Public Safety. The Superintendent of Public Safety shall designate the
Public Safety Department personnel who are authorized to issue pyrotechnic
display licenses as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998)
4-17-3: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS; CONDITIONS OF LICENSE ISSUANCE:
No pyrotechnic display license shall be issued unless the applicant has
complied with the provisions of this chapter and has established that the
pyrotechnic display or other use of pyrotechnics will comply with all other
applicable laws, rules and regulations. As a condition for issuance of a
pyrotechnic display license, the person applying for the license shall be
required to establish that all permits required by other governmental bodies
having jurisdiction over the use of pyrotechnics and pyrotechnic displays have
either been issued or will be issued prior to the time the pyrotechnic display
or use of pyrotechnics is scheduled to occur.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998)
4-17-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for pyrotechnic display licenses shall be made in writing. The
Department of Public Safety may require that an application for a pyrotechnic
display license be made on a form provided by the Public Safety Department. All
applications for a pyrotechnic display license must include a written plan
which describes in detail the type of pyrotechnics that will be used, the
equipment that will be used and the precautions that will be taken to minimize
the likelihood of personal injury or property damage. The plan shall include
the following information:
   A.   The name of the person, group or organization sponsoring the
pyrotechnic display.
   B.   The date(s) and time(s) of the pyrotechnic display.
   C.   The exact location where the pyrotechnic display will occur.
   D.   The names and addresses of all pyrotechnic operators who will be
involved with the pyrotechnic display.
   E.   The license number and date of issuance of all licenses that have been
issued to the pyrotechnic operator(s) and to any employees or agents of the
pyrotechnic operator(s) who will be furnishing pyrotechnics or equipment for
the pyrotechnic display or who will be directly involved in the presentation of
the pyrotechnic display, including operating any equipment that is used in
presenting the pyrotechnic display.
   F.   The date and number of all licenses and permits that have been issued
by other governmental units for the pyrotechnics display or, if such licenses
or permits have been applied for but not issued, the date and status of the
application.
   G.   An insurance certificate or other proof establishing that each
pyrotechnic operator has obtained the insurance coverage required by section
4-17-6 of this chapter.
   H.   The types and amounts of pyrotechnics and the equipment that will be
used in the pyrotechnic display and an outline of the number of persons who
will be working on the pyrotechnic display and what each person's
responsibility or duties will be with respect to the pyrotechnic display.
   I.   A description of each pyrotechnic operator’s experience with the types
of pyrotechnics and the equipment that will be used in the pyrotechnic display.
   J.   A diagram of the grounds or facilities at which the pyrotechnic display
will occur. This diagram must show the point at which any pyrotechnics are to
be wired or set off, the fallout radius for each pyrotechnic device to be used
in the pyrotechnic display and the lines behind which the audience for the
pyrotechnics display shall be restrained.
   K.   The manner and place where the pyrotechnics and the equipment to be
used in the pyrotechnics display will be stored during the period before and
after the pyrotechnics display.
   L.    description of the safety measures that will be taken to reduce the
likelihood that persons or property will be injured or damaged during the
pyrotechnic display, including the measures that will be taken to protect
against personal injury or property damage in the event a pyrotechnic device or
the equipment used in the pyrotechnic display malfunctions.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998)
4-17-5: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a pyrotechnics display license shall be as set forth in the Village
Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1B of this Code, entry reading “fireworks display”.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998; amd. 2019 Code)
4-17-6: INSURANCES REQUIRED:
All pyrotechnics operators who are involved in a pyrotechnics display for which
a pyrotechnics display license is issued or applied for shall carry insurance
insuring against liabilities, judgments, costs, damages and expenses which may
accrue against, be charged to or recovered from the pyrotechnics operator by
reason or on account of damage to property of, or injury to or death of, any
person arising from the pyrotechnics display. This insurance shall be carried
with insurers authorized to do business in the State of Illinois. The policy or
policies shall be in the following kinds and amounts:
   A.   Comprehensive public liability insurance: One million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per person and five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) per
occurrence, or such higher policy limits as may be required by another
applicable law, rule or regulation.
   B.   Comprehensive property damage insurance: One million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, or such higher policy limits as may be required
by another applicable law, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998)
4-17-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   All pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic devices and equipment that are intended
to be used in a pyrotechnics display for which a pyrotechnics display license
has been issued or applied for shall be made available upon request for
inspection by authorized representatives of the Village Public Safety
Department.
   B.   The premises for which pyrotechnics display license has been applied
for or issued shall be open for inspection by authorized representatives of the
Village Public Safety Department at all reasonable times including, but not
limited to, during the period which begins three (3) hours before the
pyrotechnics display is scheduled to begin and ends one hour after the
pyrotechnics display concludes.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998)
4-17-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Superintendent of Public Safety shall be authorized to issue rules and
regulations relating to the use pyrotechnics in the Village; provided, that
such rules and regulations shall not be less stringent than any applicable
State or Federal law, rule or regulation. The Superintendent is also authorized
to issue rules and regulations relating to the issuance of pyrotechnics display
licenses.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998)
4-17-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter, or any
regulation issued by the Superintendent of Public Safety pursuant to section 4-
17-8 of this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for each offense. Each separate twenty four (24)
hour period or part thereof in which a violation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 98-1-14N, 1-14-1998)
CHAPTER 18: FIRE EXTINGUISHER SERVICES
Section
4-18-1:   Definitions
4-18-2:   License Required
4-18-3:   Application For License
4-18-4:   Installation
4-18-5:   Inspections And Tests
4-18-6:   Tags On Extinguishers
4-18-7:   Rules And Regulations
Cross-reference:
   See subsection 3-105-1B of this Code for license fee
4-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
SERVICE: Where used in reference to fire extinguishers, means the inspection,
repair, recharging or testing of fire extinguishers.
SERVICEMAN: A person licensed by the Village to inspect, repair, recharge or
test fire extinguishers.
STANDARD FIRE EXTINGUISHER: A portable fire extinguisher which bears the label
of approval of a national testing laboratory acceptable to the Deputy Chief of
the Bureau of Fire Suppression.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-197 5)
4-18-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of servicing fire extinguishers unless
he shall first have obtained a license as herein provided.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-18-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every applicant for a license as a fire extinguisher serviceman shall file with
the Superintendent of Public Safety a written application, signed by the
applicant, stating his address, age, present occupation, business activities
during the previous five (5) years, experience with the repair, recharging,
testing and use of fire extinguishers, knowledge of the ordinances pertaining
to fire extinguishers and such other information as may be deemed necessary.
Every application shall be accompanied by two (2) one inch by one inch (1" x
1") prints of a bust photograph of the applicant.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-18-4: INSTALLATION:
   A.   All standard fire extinguishers shall be installed in the manner
prescribed in NFPA No. 10 entitled “Standards for Portable Extinguishers”,
published by the National Fire Protection Association in June 1956, and as
amended, in every location where required by this Code.
   B.   Every required or nonrequired fire extinguisher, when installed, shall
be fully charged and ready for immediate use.
   C.   Where an extinguisher is likely to be obscured by piles of stock,
lumber or otherwise, a sign shall be installed and maintained which will make
the location of the extinguisher in a manner legible at a distance of at least
fifty feet (50').
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-18-5: INSPECTIONS AND TESTS:
   A.   Extinguishers shall be inspected annually, shall be recharged as
specified in NFPA No. 10, as referenced in subsection 4-18-4A of this chapter,
and maintained in good condition and ready for immediate use at all times.
   B.   Every such fire extinguisher which employs a cylinder shell at a static
or working pressure in excess of one hundred (100) pounds per square inch shall
be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure test five (5) years after the date of
manufacture and every five (5) years thereafter as prescribed in said NFPA No.
10.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-18-6: TAGS ON EXTINGUISHERS:
   A.   Every standard fire extinguisher shall have attached thereto a tag
which clearly indicates the dates of inspection and recharging, the signature
of the person performing the work, and the license number of the serviceman.
The color and form of the tag shall be determined by the Superintendent of
Public Safety; provided, however, that the color used for any one year shall be
different from the color used for the previous year. The tag shall have clearly
imprinted thereon, in numerals no less than one half inch (½") in height, the
year for which it is issued.
   B.   Every fire extinguisher which has passed the hydrostatic pressure test
as herein required shall be provided with a metal label or tag as prescribed in
NFPA No. 10.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-18-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Department of Public Safety, in its discretion, may make or cause to be
made an inspection of the contents and working condition of any fire
extinguisher, and may promulgate such reasonable rules and regulations as he
deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 19: HEALTH RELATED BUSINESSES
ARTICLE A: LABORATORIES
Section
4-19A-1:   Definition
4-19A-2:   License Required
4-19A-3:   Application For License
4-19A-4:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-19A-5:   Sanitary And Safety Conditions
4-19A-6:   Reports Required
4-19A-7:    Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-19A-1: DEFINITION:
The word LABORATORY, when used in this article, shall mean any building, place
or establishment maintained or operated for the purpose of making medical,
bacteriological, pathological, physiological, serological, chemical,
industrial, agricultural, physical, optical, veterinary, pharmaceutical,
engineering, electrical, X-ray, or other scientific examinations, analyses,
determinations, or experiments.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-19A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate any laboratory or laboratory agency for a
fee without first having obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-19A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a laboratory license shall be made in conformity with the
general requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses. In
addition, the applicant shall describe the premises where such business is to
be conducted.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-19A-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   The Health and Licensing Department shall make, or cause to be made, an
investigation of the premises described in the application for the purpose of
determining the fitness and suitability of the premises for the conduct of such
business from a sanitary standpoint, and as to whether the applicant has
complied with the State laws and provisions of this Code regulating health,
sanitation, and safety so as to safeguard properly the lives and health of the
employees engaged or to be engaged in the premises.
   B.   The Health and Licensing Department shall also investigate the accuracy
and reliability of the work done or to be done in the laboratory, and as to
whether the person in charge or to be in charge of the laboratory is of good
reputation and experienced and qualified to do or supervise the work for which
the laboratory is to be maintained.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-19A-5: SANITARY AND SAFETY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Every laboratory shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   B.   All necessary measures shall be taken to safeguard properly the lives
and health of all persons employed in the laboratory against accidents and
contagious diseases.
   C.   All necessary appliances and devices shall be installed to prevent the
emission of obnoxious fumes, odors, or dust into the laboratory proper or into
adjoining or contiguous structures, and provisions shall be made to prevent the
occlusion or obstruction of the drains or sewers through which the sewage or
wastes of the establishment are discharged.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-19A-6: REPORTS REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of every person operating or conducting a laboratory to
report to the Health and Licensing Department within twenty four (24) hours the
results of all bacteriological and serological examinations, showing the
presence of any actively contagious, epidemic, or communicable disease,
together with the name and address of the person showing evidence of such
disease, and the name and address of the physician in attendance on such case.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-19A-7: INSPECTIONS:
Every laboratory shall at all times be open to inspection by the Health and
Licensing Department and the Director of Building and Code Enforcement whenever
and as often as they shall deem proper.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 20: FOOD AND FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE A: FOOD SERVICE SANITATION CODE
Section
4-20A-1:   Code Adopted
4-20A-2:   Enforcement
4-20A-3:   Emergencies
4-20A-4:   Penalties
4-20A-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, copies of which are on file in the Health and License
Department, being marked and designated as the Federal Drug Administration
(“FDA”) Food Code, and as amended from time to time, shall be and hereby is
adopted by reference as the Food Service Sanitation Code of the Village, and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions, and terms of the FDA
Food Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof by reference
as if set out fully in this article. Any additions or revisions to the FDA Food
Code after the effective date hereof shall become applicable within the Village
on the date that such addition or revision becomes an applicable provision of
the FDA Food Code and shall thereafter be a part of the Food Service Sanitation
Code, of the Village, unless the Corporate Authorities of the Village take
action to repel or amend such addition or revision.
(Ord. 2003-5-7G, 5-7-2003)
4-20A-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of the Food Service Sanitation Code adopted pursuant to section
4-20A-1 of this article shall be enforced by the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department and those persons designated or assigned by the Director
to enforce the provisions of the Food Service Sanitation Code.
(Ord. 2003-5-7G, 5-7-2003)
4-20A-3: EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Cessation Of Business: In addition to any other remedy that may be
available, in the event that the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department determines that conditions on premises which violate the Food
Service Sanitation Code adopted pursuant to section 4-20A-1 of this article
pose an immediate danger to persons who may consume food or beverages that are
sold, distributed or served from or on the premises, the Director may order
that the operations on the premises involving the sale, distribution or service
of food and beverages immediately cease.
   B.   Notice Of Cessation:
      1.   If the Director of the Health and Licensing Department orders that
the sale, distribution or service of food on premises cease as provided in
subsection A of this section, a notice shall be posted in a prominent place on
the premises stating that the Director of the Health and Licensing Department
has ordered that the sale, distribution and\or service of food and beverages on
the premises cease.
      2.   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to modify,
remove or deface any notice that is posted pursuant to subsection B1 of this
section.
   C.   Hearing: If the Director of the Health and Licensing Department orders
that the sale, distribution or service of food on premises cease as provided in
subsection A of this section, the owner or operator of the food service
operation on the premises shall be entitled to a hearing before the Village
President or a hearing officer appointed or designated by the Village
President. The hearing will commence within seventy two (72) hours after a
written request for a hearing is filed in the Office of the Village Clerk. The
purpose of the hearing is to allow for evidence to be presented as to whether
there are conditions on the premises which violate the Food Service Sanitation
Code adopted pursuant to section 4-20A-1 of this article and pose an immediate
danger to persons who may consume food or beverages that are sold, distributed
or served from or on the premises. At the hearing, the owner or operator of the
premises shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney and shall be
entitled to present evidence on his or her own behalf.
   D.   Decision Or Recommendation:
      1.   Following the conclusion of the hearing, if based on the testimony,
documents and other evidence, the Village President determines that either
there are no conditions on the premises which violate the Food Service
Sanitation Code adopted pursuant to section 4-20A-1 of this article or that any
conditions which do violate the Food Sanitation Code or do not pose an
immediate danger to persons who may consume food or beverages that are sold,
distributed or served from or on the premises, the Village President shall
allow operations on the premises involving the sale, distribution or service of
food and beverages to recommence.
      2.   If the hearing provided for in this section is conducted by a
hearing officer, the hearing officer shall make a written report and
recommendation to the Village President based on the testimony, documents and
other evidence presented at the hearing.
(Ord. 2003-5-7G, 5-7-2003)
4-20A-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of the Food Service Sanitation Code
adopted pursuant to sections 4-20A-1 and 4-20A-2 of this article shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation. Each day
that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate violation.
   B.   In addition, the Director of the Health and Licensing Department is
authorized to apply to any court that has jurisdiction over violations of the
Food Service Sanitation Code adopted pursuant to section 4-20A-l of this
article for appropriate relief that seeks to enjoin the continued existence of
a condition, situation or circumstance that constitutes a violation of the
provisions of the Food Service Sanitation Code.
(Ord. 2003-5-7G, 5-7-2003)
ARTICLE B: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
4-20B-1:   Definition
4-20B-2:   License Required
4-20B-3:   Application For License; Inspection Required
4-20B-4:   Compliance With Federal Regulations; Inspections; Handwashing Sinks
4-20B-5:   Violations And Remedies
Cross-reference:
   See
title 3, chapter 7  of this Code for eating establishments tax; see subsection
3-10-1 H of this Code for license fees
4-20B-1: DEFINITION:
When used in this article, the term FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT shall mean “food
processing establishments”, “food service establishments”, “mobile food units”,
“temporary food service establishments” and “retail food stores”, as these
terms are defined in the rules and regulations referenced herein.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-20B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate any food service establishment without first
having obtained a license for such food service establishment as provided
herein.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-20B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INSPECTION REQUIRED:
An application for a license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses. No such food
service establishment license shall be issued until the premises shall have
been inspected and approved by the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-20B-4: COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL REGULATIONS; INSPECTIONS; HANDWASHING SINKS:
   A.   All food service establishments shall comply with the requirements of
the FDA Food Code as adopted in section
4-20A-1 of this Chapter. The Director of the Health and Licensing Department or
their representative, in conjunction with the Health and Licensing Department,
shall regularly inspect all food service establishments at intervals not
greater than six (6) months to ensure compliance with said Code.
   B.   In addition to the requirements of the FDA Food Code, all food service
establishments shall have an automatic handwashing facility installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions that meet the following
requirements:
      1.   The handwashing sink shall provide water at a temperature of at
least 29.4ºC (85ºF) through a mixing valve or combination faucet.
      2.   A self-closing, slow-closing, or metering faucet shall provide a
flow of water for at least 15 seconds without the need to reactivate the
faucet.
      3.   A steam mixing valve may not be used at a handwashing sink.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. Ord. 2023-9-11B, 9-11-2023)
4-20B-5: VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Correction Of Violation: If no immediate hazard exists, any violations
may be corrected in a reasonable time at the direction of the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department.
   B.   Revocation Of License: In the case of serious or repeated violations,
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department may begin proceedings to
revoke the Village license pursuant to chapter 1 of this title.
   C.   In the case of an immediate, serious health hazard, the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department may order the food service establishment closed
until such hazard no longer exists.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE C: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS AND DISPENSERS
Section
4-20C-1:   Mobile Food Vendors
4-20C-1-1:   Definition
4-20C-1-2:   License Required
4-20C-1-2.5:   Temporary License
4-20C-1-3:   Regulations
4-20C-1-4:   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 C of this Code for license fee
4-20C-1: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS:
4-20C-1-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this section 4-20C-1, the term MOBILE FOOD VENDOR shall mean any
person or persons who operate or sell food from a stationary cart or trailer
mounted on a chassis, but without an engine, or from a food truck with an
engine specifically outfitted with the necessary equipment for the safe
handling, storage and/or preparation of the food products being served as
determined by the Director of Health and Licensing. All mobile food vendors
must be inspected by the Director of the Health and Licensing Department.
(Ord. 2013-7-10K, 7-10-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11B, 4-11-2022)
4-20C-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of mobile food vendor
without first having obtained a license from the Director of Health and
Licensing.
(Ord. 2013-7-10K, 7-10-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11B, 4-11-2022)
4-20C-1-2.5: TEMPORARY LICENSE:
A temporary license may be issued for a mobile food vendor that has a
demonstrated ownership or leasehold interest in a property located in the
Village for the period that is six (6) months prior to the anticipated opening
of a permanent food service establishment being constructed pursuant to a
Village issued building permit for the vendor's use in the Village. The fee for
a temporary license shall be that set forth in the fee schedule subsection
3-10-1C of this Code. Any temporary license issued shall automatically expire
upon the issuance of an occupancy permit for the permanent food service
establishment.
(Ord. 2022-4-11B, 4-11-2022)
4-20C-1-3: REGULATIONS:
Mobile food vendors are subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Only mobile food vendors that have obtained a license from the Village
may operate within the Village of Rosemont.
   B.   A mobile food vendor cart, trailer or truck shall bear signage or other
insignia identifying the food service establishment with which it is
affiliated.
   C.   A mobile food vendor may be located and operated on private property
with the written permission of the owner of the privately owned property only
such dates and times as permitted by the private property owner and the license
required from the Village. The mobile food vendor may operate on public owned
property, including any Village owned right of way, only upon receipt of the
written permission of the public entity only on such dates, times and specific
locations as permitted by the public entity owning or operating the property. A
mobile food shall not operate on any non-Village owned public right of way and
shall not interfere with travel on such rights of way.
   D.   A mobile food vendor desiring permission to operate within any public
common areas shall submit a written application to the Director of the Health
and Licensing Department stating the dates, times and place for which
permission is being requested, together with a site plan depicting the proposed
location of the mobile food vendor. The Village's Director of Health and
Licensing shall contact the Village's manager of the location where permission
is sought and/or any other public entity that owns or controls the property for
which the permission is sought (i.e.: Park District or School District) and not
issue any license unless permission is granted by the Village's manager of the
location or the public entity that operates the proposed location in which the
mobile food vendor has applied to operate.
   E.   Mobile food vendors may operate only during the days, hours and
locations established in the license issued by the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department.
   F.   Mobile food vendors may not be operated in parking spaces, driveways,
fire lanes or public roads unless permission is specifically granted by the
Village.
   G.   A drive-through is not permitted in conjunction with a mobile food
vendor.
   H.   A mobile food vendor cart or chassis shall be stored in an appropriate
location approved by the Director of Health and Licensing at all times when it
is not being operated for food service purposes.
   I.   All food must be protected from any type of contamination and must be
stored and served in accordance with all applicable food service sanitation
codes and ordinances.
   J.   Mobile Food Vendors shall be inspected by the Village's Health
Department whether they are operating on public or private property.
(Ord. 2013-7-10K, 7-10-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11B, 4-11-2022; Ord. 2023-7-10D,
7-10-2023)
4-20C-1-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, corporation or business entity found to be in violation of
any provision of this article or, of the terms of a mobile food vendor license
issued pursuant to this article, by the Village's Administrative Hearing
Officer after a notice and hearing required pursuant to the Village's
Administrative Hearing System established in article A of chapter 4 of title 1
of this Code shall be subject to: a) revocation or suspension of their mobile
food vendor license; and b) a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense.
The provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to enforce this article or to adjudicate alleged
violations of this article including, without limitation, the institution of an
action in the Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative
tribunal which has jurisdiction to consider violations of this article.
(Ord. 2013-7-10K, 7-10-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11B, 4-11-2022)
ARTICLE D: TEMPORARY FOOD VENDORS
Section
4-20D-1:   Definitions
4-20D-2:   License Required
4-20D-3:   Application For License; Fee
4-20D-4:   Conditions Of License
4-20D-5:   Term Of License; Days Of Sales
4-20D-6:   Display Of License
4-20D-7:   Regulations
4-20D-8:   Prohibited Food Sales
4-20D-9:   Inspections
4-20D-10:   Enforcement Of Provisions
4-20D-11:   Penalties
4-20D-12:   Administrative Adjudication
4-20D-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
FOOD: Any nonliquid item that is intended to be eaten by a human being.
FRESH PRODUCE: Fruits and vegetables that have not been cooked at the time that
they are sold or offered for sale.
PERSON: A natural person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship,
limited liability company, unincorporated association, joint venture or other
entity.
PREPACKED FOOD: Any food that is wrapped or contained in a package at the time
it is sold or being offered for sale.
PREPARED FOOD: Any food item that has been cooked in any manner prior to being
sold.
TEMPORARY LOCATION: Any location that is outside of an enclosed building or
structure and any location inside an enclosed building or structure, other than
the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center, that is not regularly used as a site
for the sale of food.
VENDOR: Any person or business that sells or offers food for sale. Persons that
provide food in connection with an event that is catered and which is not open
to the general public are not considered to be vendors for purposes of this
article. Persons who do not regularly engage in the sale of food and who sell
or offer to sell food at an event where the proceeds from the sale go to
support an educational or religious institution or where the proceeds of the
sale are used solely for a charitable purpose are not considered to be vendors
for purposes of this article.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall act as a vendor who sells food or offers food for sale at a
temporary location within the Village without first obtaining a temporary food
vendor's license issued by the Village pursuant to the provisions of this
article for each and every temporary location at which food is sold by such
person or business. The applicant for a temporary food vendor's license must be
at least eighteen (18) years of age.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
All applications for a temporary food vendor's license shall be submitted on an
application form to be provided by the Village. The fee for a temporary food
vendor's license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1B of this Code, as amended; except, that no license fee shall be required
for a temporary food vendor's license that authorizes the sale of food on
premises owned or occupied by a school, a park district, the Village, or a
church or other religious institution. All applications for a temporary food
vendor's license shall be accompanied by the applicable license fee.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
No person shall be issued a temporary food vendor's license unless such person
has obtained any and all other licenses or permits that may be required in
order for the person to be able to engage in the business of selling food or
offering food for sale.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-5: TERM OF LICENSE; DAYS OF SALES:
A temporary food vendor's license shall be valid for the period from April 1
through October 31 during a calendar year and shall allow the sale of food and
the offering of food for sale on Saturdays and Sundays only, unless the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department issues a permit that allows a
licensee to sell food on a day other than Saturday or Sunday; provided, that no
such permit shall allow food to be sold on more than three (3) consecutive
days, not including Saturdays And Sundays.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
A temporary food vendor’s license shall be kept on the premises for which the
license was issued and shall be shown upon request to any officer of the
Village authorized to administer or enforce this article.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-7: REGULATIONS:
   A.   All food vendors at a temporary location must at all times be in
compliance with any and all applicable Federal, State and local laws, rules and
regulations.
   B.   All locations where a vendor who has been issued a temporary food
vendor’s license sells food or offers food for sale must be maintained in a
clean, neat and sanitary manner.
   C.   Each vendor who has been issued a temporary food vendor’s license shall
maintain a tightfitting container for waste and garbage at the location where
the vendor sells food or offers food for sale.
   D.   Any food on display at a location for which temporary food vendor’s
license has been issued that is outside of an enclosed structure must be
protected from dirt or other contamination.
   E.   No food at a location for which a temporary food vendor’s license has
been issued shall be stored or placed on the ground or floor.
   F.   Any food on display at a location for which a temporary food vendor’s
license has been issued must be protected from handling by the public; except,
that fresh produce which is on display for sale may be made available for
handling by prospective purchasers.
   G.   No animals, other than service dogs, are to be in the area where food
is stored or where food is sold or offered for sale at a location for which a
temporary food vendor's license has been issued.
   H.   Samples of fresh produce shall be offered to prospective purchasers or
other members of the public only if the sample has first been washed in a
sanitizing solution. Samples of food that are offered to prospective purchasers
or other members of the public must be served either: 1) with an eating
utensil, such as a fork or spoon; 2) with a toothpick or similar type of
skewer; or 3) served on a disposable plate or bowl.
   I.   Fresh produce may only be cut or sliced for display purposes. Fresh
produce that has been sliced or cut shall not be sold.
   J.   Baked goods which do not contain cream, custard or other egg-based
filling must be produced and packaged at a facility for which a permit or
license authorizing food to be produced and packaged at the facility has been
issued by a unit of government having jurisdiction over the facility unless the
proceeds from the sale are to be donated to a recognized not-for-profit
organization such as a public, parochial or private not-for-profit educational
institution, a religious institution or a charitable organization.
   K.   Baked goods containing cream, custard or other egg-based filling must
also be kept refrigerated at a temperature of forty one degrees Fahrenheit
(41°F) or less.
   L.   The packaging for prepackaged foods must contain the following
information:
      1.   The common name of the product in the package;
      2.   The name and address, including zip code, of the packer of the
package;
      3.   The net weight of the contents of the package; and
      4.   A list of ingredients contained in the package, including any
artificial colors, artificial flavors and preservatives.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-8: PROHIBITED FOOD SALES:
The following shall not be sold by a vendor of food at a temporary location:
   A.   Canned foods that were not canned at a facility for which a permit or
license authorizing the canning of foods at the facility has been issued by a
unit of government having jurisdiction over the facility.
   B.   Raw milk, raw cheese, raw yogurt or any other raw dairy product.
   C.   Ice cream that was not made at a facility for which a permit or license
authorizing ice cream to be made at the facility has been issued by a unit of
government having jurisdiction over the facility.
   D.   Food in packages where the food was not packaged at a facility for
which a permit or license authorizing food to be packaged at the facility has
been issued by a unit of government having jurisdiction over the facility.
   E.   Sandwiches which were prepared at a location other than the premises
for which the temporary food vendor’s license was issued or at a business
location or other facility for which a permit or license authorizing the
preparation of sandwiches has been issued by a unit of government having
jurisdiction over the business location or other facility.
   F.   Garlic in oil unless packaged at a facility for which a permit or
license authorizing food to be packaged at the facility has been issued by a
unit of government having jurisdiction over the facility.
   G.   Pickles, relishes and salsa unless packaged at a facility for which a
permit or license authorizing food to be packaged at the facility has been
issued by a unit of government having jurisdiction over the facility.
   H.   Any food that contains mold or is contaminated, rancid, or would
otherwise be unhealthy for a natural person to consume.
   I.   Any food for which the expiration or “consume by” or “sell by” date as
shown on the package or container for the food has passed.
   J.   Baked goods containing cream, custard or other egg-based filling unless
produced and packaged at a facility for which a permit or license authorizing
food to be produced and packaged at the facility has been issued by a unit of
government having jurisdiction over the facility.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-9: INSPECTIONS:
All locations where a vendor who has been issued a temporary food vendor's
license operates shall be subject to inspection at any reasonable time during
which food is present at the location for compliance with applicable laws,
rules and regulations including, but not limited to, the FDA Food Code.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-10: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department and his deputies
shall have the duty to enforce the provisions of this article.
   B.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department is authorized to
issue regulations for the purpose of implementing and enforcing the
requirements of this article. All such regulations shall be consistent with the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of this article
shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   B.   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this article
shall not be issued a temporary food vendor’s license for a period of sixty
(60) days beginning on the date of the guilty finding.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
4-20D-12: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION:
Violations of the provisions of this article are subject to prosecution under
the Village administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to
title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code, as now or hereafter amended. The
provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to enforce this article or to adjudicate alleged
violations of this article including, without limitation, the institution of an
action in the Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative
tribunal which has jurisdiction to consider violations of this article.
(Ord. 2009-11-4K, 11-4-2009)
ARTICLE E: VENDING MACHINES; FOOD
Section
4-20E-1:   License Required; Exemptions
4-20E-2:   Application For License
4-20E-3:   Adulterated Or Misbranded Foods Or Beverages
4-20E-4:   Sanitation Requirements
4-20E-5:   Inspections; Violations
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fees
4-20E-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
No person, firm or corporation who owns, leases or has a possessory interest in
any premises within the Village shall install, keep, maintain, use or permit
the maintenance or use upon such premises of any vending machine, automatic
vending machine, coin-operated machine or other mechanical device requiring
more than one cent ($0.01) for the activation thereof, which is used or
intended to be used for the sale or distribution of any product unless the same
shall have been first licensed under the provisions of this article, and no
owner of any vending machine, automatic vending machine, coin-operated machine
or other mechanical device requiring more than one cent ($0.01) for the
activation thereof, which is used or intended to be used for the sale or
distribution of any product, shall install the same on any premises located
within the Village without first obtaining a license therefor pursuant to the
provisions of this article. This article shall not apply, however, to cigarette
vending machines, jukeboxes, or amusement machines.
(Ord. 76-3-27A, 3-27-1976)
4-20E-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses. Such
application shall include the owner of the premises upon which the machine is
to be located for use and the product to be sold or distributed by the machine.
(Ord. 76-3-27A, 3-27-1976)
4-20E-3: ADULTERATED OR MISBRANDED FOODS OR BEVERAGES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person within the Village to sell, offer,
or expose for sale through vending machines, or to have in possession with
intent to sell therefrom, any food, beverage or ingredient which is adulterated
or misbranded.
   B.   Samples of food, beverage or ingredient may be taken and examined by
the Village as often as may be necessary to determine freedom from adulteration
or misbranding. The Village may, on written notice to the operator, impound and
forbid the sale of any food or beverage which is adulterated or misbranded, or
which it has probable cause to believe to be adulterated or misbranded. After
the operator has been given an opportunity for a hearing, the Village may cause
to be removed or destroyed any food or beverage which is adulterated or
misbranded; provided, that in the case of misbranding which can be corrected by
proper labeling, such food or beverage may be released to the operator for
correct labeling under the supervision of the Village.
(Ord. 76-3-27A, 3-27-1976)
4-20E-4: SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Foods, beverages and ingredients intended for sale through vending
machines shall be obtained from sources complying with the regulations of the
Village and with other applicable State and Federal laws and regulations. Such
products shall be clean and wholesome, free from spoilage, and processed,
prepared, handled and stored in such a manner as to be protected against
contamination and adulteration. All product contact surfaces of containers and
equipment shall be protected from contamination.
   B.   All foods, beverages and ingredients shall be stored or packaged in
clean protective containers and shall be handled, transported and vended in a
sanitary manner. Wet storage of packaged products is prohibited.
   C.   Readily perishable foods offered for sale through vending machines
shall be dispensed to the consumer in the individual original container or
wrapper into which it was placed at the commissary or at the manufacturer's or
processor's plant, or such products shall be dispensed into single service
containers.
   D.   In those vending machines dispensing readily perishable foods,
beverages, or ingredients in bulk, the bulk supplies of such foods, beverages
or ingredients shall be transferred only to a bulk vending machine container
and appurtenances which are clean and have been subjected to an approved
bactericidal process.
   E.   1.   Readily perishable foods or ingredients within the vending machine
shall be maintained at a temperature not lower than thirty three degrees
Fahrenheit (33°F) nor higher than fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F). Vending
machines dispensing readily perishable foods shall be provided with controls
which ensure the maintenance of these temperatures at all times; provided, that
an exception may be made for the actual time required to fill or otherwise
service the machine and for a maximum recovery period of thirty (30) minutes
following completion of filling or servicing operations. Such controls shall
also place the machine in an inoperative condition until serviced by the
operator, in the event of power failure or other condition, which permits the
food storage compartment to attain a temperature above fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(50°F) or below thirty three degrees Fahrenheit (33°F), whichever is
applicable. Vending machines dispensing readily perishable food shall be
provided with a thermometer which, to an accuracy of plus or minus two degrees
Fahrenheit (±2°F), indicates the air temperature of the food storage
compartment.
      2.   The temperature for hot liquid foods or beverages shall be not less
than one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) and for frozen foods, not
more than thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F).
   F.   Milk offered for sale through vending machines shall be dispensed only
in individual containers or from bulk containers into which the milk was placed
at the plant.
   G.   The machine location shall be such as to minimize the potential for
contamination of the product, shall be easily cleanable and shall be kept
clean.
   H.   The exterior construction of the vending machine shall be such as to
facilitate cleaning and to minimize the entrance of insects and rodents, and
the exterior of the machine shall be kept clean. Service connections shall be
such as to protect against unintentional or accidental interruption of service
to the machine.
   I.   Unless the vending machine is sealed to the floor so as to prevent
seepage underneath or can be manually moved with ease, one or more of the
following provisions shall be utilized to facilitate cleaning operations:
      1.   The machine shall be mounted on legs six inches (6") or more in
height; or
      2.   The machine shall be mounted on casters or rollers; or
      3.   The machine shall be mounted on gliders which permit it to be easily
moved.
   J.   All interior surfaces and component parts of the vending machine shall
be so designed and constructed as to permit easy cleaning and shall be kept
clean. All product contact surfaces of the machine shall be of smooth,
nontoxic, corrosion resistant, and relatively nonabsorbent material and shall
be capable of withstanding repeated cleaning and bactericidal treatment by
normal procedures. Such surfaces shall be protected against contamination.
   K.   Water used in vending machines shall be from an approved source and
shall be of a safe and sanitary quality.
   L.   1.    All wastes shall be properly disposed of and, pending
disposition, shall be kept in suitable containers so as to prevent creating a
nuisance.
      2.   This subsection shall be deemed to have been satisfied when the
following requirements are met:
         a.   All trash and other waste material shall be removed from the
machine location as frequently as may be necessary to prevent nuisance and
unsightliness and shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the health
authority.
         b.   Self-closing, leakproof, readily cleanable, and plainly labeled
and designated waste container or containers shall be provided in the vicinity
of each machine or machines to receive used cups, cartons, wrappers, straws,
closures and other single service items. Such waste containers shall not be
located within the vending machine; provided, that an exception may be made for
those machines dispensing only packaged products with crown closures, in which
case, the closure receptacle may be located within the machine. Suitable racks
or cases shall be provided for multi-use containers or bottles.
         c.   Containers shall be provided within all machines dispensing
liquid products in bulk for the collection of drip, spillage, overflow, or
other liquid wastes.
      3.   An automatic shutoff device shall be provided which will place the
vending machine out of operation before a container overflows. Containers or
surfaces on which wastes may accumulate shall be readily removable for
cleaning, shall be easily cleanable, and shall be corrosion resistant. If
liquid wastes from drip, spillage or overflow, which originate within the
machine, are discharged into a sewerage system, the connection to the sewer
shall be through an air gap.
   M.   Foods, beverages and ingredients and product contact surfaces of
containers, equipment and supplies shall be protected from contamination while
in transit to the machine location. Readily perishable foods and beverages,
while in transit, shall be maintained at a temperature not higher than fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (50°F).
(Ord. 76-3-27A, 3-27-1976)
4-20E-5: INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Inspections: The appropriate Village officials shall inspect the
servicing, maintenance and operation of vending machines dispensing readily
perishable foods at least once every six (6) months. Vending machines
dispensing other than readily perishable foods may be inspected as often as
deemed necessary.
   B.   Entry Powers: Village officers or employees, after proper
identification, shall be permitted to enter at any reasonable time upon any
private or public property within the Village where vending machines are
operated for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
article. The operator shall make provision for the Village to have access to
the interior of all vending machines operated by him.
   C.   Violations:
      1.   Notice Of Violation; Hearing: Whenever the Village discovers a
violation of any provision of this article, the operator concerned shall be
notified. Such notice shall: a) describe the condition found and state which
section of this article is violated by such condition; b) provide a specific
and reasonable period of time for the correction of the condition; and c) state
that an opportunity for a hearing on inspection findings will be provided if a
written request for such hearing is filed with the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice.
      2.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License Or Court Action: The Director of
the Health and Licensing Department may advise the operator in writing that
unless the violations are corrected within the specified period of time, any
license issued under the provisions of this article may be suspended or revoked
or court action may be initiated.
(Ord. 76-3-27A, 3-27-1976)
ARTICLE F: COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS
Section
4-20F-1:   Definitions
4-20F-2:   Regulations Of Cottage Food Operations
4-20F-3:   Registration
4-20F-4:   Consumer Complaint; Foodborne Illness Outbreak
4-20F-5:   Complaints From Other Jurisdictions
4-20F-6:   Exemptions
4-20F-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this Article:
ACIDIFIED: A food is "acidified" if:
   1.   Acid or acid ingredients are added to it to produce a final equilibrium
pH of 4.6 or below; or
   2.   It is fermented to produce a final equilibrium pH of 4.6 or below.
CANNED FOOD: Food that has been heat processed sufficiently under United States
Department of Agriculture guidelines to enable storing the food at normal home
temperatures.
COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION: An operation conducted by a person who produces or
packages food or drink, other than foods and drinks listed as prohibited in
paragraph (1.3) of Section
4-20F-2  of this Article, in a kitchen located in that person's primary
domestic residence or another appropriately designed and equipped kitchen on a
farm for direct sale by the owner, a family member, or employee.
CUT LEAFY GREENS: Fresh leafy greens whose leaves have been cut, shredded,
sliced, chopped, or torn. CUT LEAFY GREENS does not mean cut-to-harvest leafy
greens.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois Department of Public Health.
EQUILIBRIUM PH: The final potential of hydrogen measured in an acidified food
after all the components of the food have achieved the same acidity.
FARMERS' MARKET: A common facility or area where farmers gather to sell a
variety of fresh fruits and vegetables and other locally produced farm and food
products directly to consumers.
LEAFY GREENS: Iceberg lettuce; romaine lettuce; leaf lettuce; butter lettuce;
baby leaf lettuce, such as immature lettuce or leafy greens; escarole; endive;
spring mix; spinach; cabbage; kale; arugula; and chard. LEAFY GREENS does not
include microgreens or herbs such as cilantro or parsley.
LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Village of Rosemont's Health Department.
LOCAL PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT ASSOCIATION: An association solely representing
two (2) or more State-certified local health departments.
LOW-ACID CANNED FOOD: Any canned food with a finished equilibrium pH greater
than 4.6 and a water activity (aw) greater than 0.85.
MICROGREEN: An edible plant seedling grown in soil or substrate and harvested
above the soil or substrate line.
POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD: A food that is potentially hazardous according to
the Department's administrative rules. Potentially hazardous food (PHF) in
general means a food that requires time and temperature control for safety
(TCS) to limit pathogenic microorganism growth or toxin formation.
SPROUT: Any seedling intended for human consumption that was produced in a
manner that does not meet the definition of microgreen.
(Ord. 2023-7-10C, 7-10-2023)
4-20F-2: REGULATION OF COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS:
A cottage food operation may produce homemade food and drink provided that all
of the following conditions are met:
   A.   The cottage food operation complies with all the requirements of the
Village's Zoning Code (Rosemont Code: Title 12), including the requirement that
the handling of food or foodstuffs requires a special use permit for the Home
Occupation that is issued by the Village Board after a Public Hearing before
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      1.   The cottage food operation is in compliance with all State statutes
and Illinois Department of Revenue requirements for the collection of sales
taxes.
      2.   A cottage food operation must register with the Village of
Rosemont's local Health Department, but may sell products outside of the
Village of Rosemont. A copy of the certificate of registration must be
available upon request by any local health department.
      3.   A cottage food operation shall not sell or offer to sell the
following food items or processed foods containing the following food items,
except as indicated:
         a.   Meat, poultry, fish, seafood, or shellfish;
         b.   Dairy, except as an ingredient in a non-potentially hazardous
baked good or candy, such as caramel, subject to paragraph A.4., or as an
ingredient in a baked good frosting, such as buttercream;
         c.   Eggs, except as an ingredient in a non-potentially hazardous
food, including dry noodles, or as an ingredient in a baked good frosting, such
as buttercream, if the eggs are not raw;
         d.   Pumpkin pies, sweet potato pies, cheesecakes, custard pies, creme
pies, and pastries with potentially hazardous fillings or toppings;
         e.   Garlic in oil or oil infused with garlic, except if the garlic
oil is acidified;
         f.   Low-acid canned foods;
         g.   Sprouts;
         h.   Cut leafy greens, except for cut leafy greens that are
dehydrated, acidified, or blanched and frozen;
         i.   Cut or pureed fresh tomato or melon;
         j.   Dehydrated tomato or melon;
         k.   Frozen cut melon;
         l.   Wild-harvested, non-cultivated mushrooms;
         m.   Alcoholic beverages; or
         n.   Kombucha.
      4.   In order to sell canned tomatoes or a canned product containing
tomatoes, a cottage food operator shall either:
         a.   Follow exactly a recipe that has been tested by the United States
Department of Agriculture or by a state cooperative extension located in this
State or any other state in the United States; or
         b.   Submit the recipe, at the cottage food operator's expense, to a
commercial laboratory according to the commercial laboratory's directions to
test that the product has been adequately acidified; use only the varietal or
proportionate varietals of tomato included in the tested recipe for all
subsequent batches of such recipe; and provide documentation of the annual test
results of the recipe submitted under this subparagraph upon registration and
to an inspector upon request during any inspection authorized by Section
4-20F-4.
   B.   In order to sell a fermented or acidified food, a cottage food
operation shall either:
      1.   Submit a recipe that has been tested by the United States Department
of Agriculture or a cooperative extension system located in this State or any
other state in the United States; or
      2.   Submit a written food safety plan for each category of products for
which the cottage food operator uses the same procedures, such as pickles,
kimchi, or hot sauce, and a pH test for a single product that is representative
of that category; the written food safety plan shall be submitted annually upon
registration and each pH test shall be submitted every three (3) years; the
food safety plan shall adhere to guidelines developed by the Department.
   C.   A fermented or acidified food shall be packaged according to one of the
following standards:
      1.   A fermented or acidified food that is canned must be processed in a
boiling water bath in a Mason-style jar or glass container with a tight-fitting
lid.
      2.   A fermented or acidified food that is not canned shall be sold in
any container that is new, clean, and seals properly and must be stored,
transported, and sold at or below forty-one (41) degrees.
   D.   In order to sell a baked good with cheese, a local health department
may require a cottage food operation to submit a recipe, at the cottage food
operator's expense, to a commercial laboratory to verify that it is non-
potentially hazardous before allowing the cottage food operation to sell the
baked good as a cottage food.
   E.   If the cottage food operation does not utilize a municipal water
supply, a water sample test shall be required to verify that the water source
being used meets public safety standards related to E. coli coliform. The test
must be conducted at the cottage food operator's expense.
   F.   A person preparing or packaging a product as part of a cottage food
operation must be an Illinois Department of Public Health approved certified
food protection manager.
   G.   Food packaging must conform with the labeling requirements of the
Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. A cottage food product shall be
prepackaged and the food packaging shall be affixed with a prominent label that
includes the following:
      1.   The name of the cottage food operation and unit of local government
in which the cottage food operation is located;
      2.   The identifying registration number provided by the Village of
Rosemont's health department on the certificate of registration and the name of
the municipality or county in which the registration was filed;
      3.   The common or usual name of the food product;
      4.   All ingredients of the food product, including any color, artificial
flavor, and preservative, listed in descending order by predominance of weight
shown with the common or usual names;
      5.   The following phrase in prominent lettering: “This product was
produced in a home kitchen not inspected by a health department that may also
process common food allergens. If you have safety concerns, contact your local
health department.”;
      6.   The date the product was processed; and
      7.   Allergen labeling as specified under federal labeling requirements.
   H.   Food packaging may include the designation "Illinois-grown", "Illinois-
sourced", or "Illinois farm product" if the packaged product is a local farm or
food product as that term is defined in Section 5 of the Illinois Local Food,
Farms, and Jobs Act.
   I.   In the case of a product that is difficult to properly label or
package, or for other reasons, the Rosemont health department may grant
permission to sell products that are not prepackaged, in which case other
prominent written notice shall be provided to the purchaser.
   J.   At the point of sale, notice must be provided in a prominent location
that states the following: “This product was produced in a home kitchen not
inspected by a health department that may also process common food allergens.”
At a physical display, notice shall be a placard. Online, notice shall be a
message on the cottage food operation's online sales interface at the point of
sale.
   K.   Food and drink produced by a cottage food operation shall be sold
directly to consumers for their own consumption and not for resale. Sales
directly to consumers include, but are not limited to, sales at or through:
      1.   Farmers' markets;
      2.   Fairs, festivals, public events, or online;
      3.   Delivery to the customer; and
      4.   Pickup from a third-party private property with the consent of the
third-party property holder.
   L.   Only food that is non-potentially hazardous may be shipped. A cottage
food product shall not be shipped out of State. Each cottage food product that
is shipped must be sealed in a manner that reveals tampering, including, but
not limited to, a sticker or pop top.
(Ord. 2023-7-10C, 7-10-2023)
4-20F-3: REGISTRATION:
A cottage food operation that meets the requirements of this Article and shall
be issue a certificate of registration with a unique identifying registration
number by the Village of Rosemont's Health Department. Registration shall be
completed annually and an annual fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) paid.
(Ord. 2023-7-10C, 7-10-2023)
4-20F-4: CONSUMER COMPLAINT; FOODBORNE ILLNESS OUTBREAK:
In the event of a consumer complaint or foodborne illness outbreak, upon notice
from a different local health department other than the Rosemont Department of
Public Health, or if the Rosemont Health Department has reason to believe that
an imminent health hazard exists or that a cottage food operation's product has
been found to be misbranded, adulterated, or not in compliance with the
conditions for cottage food operations set forth in this Article, the Illinois
Department of Public Health or the Rosemont Health Department may:
   A.   Inspect the premises of the cottage food operation in question;
   B.   Get a reasonable fee for the inspection which shall be at least one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per hour; and
   C.   Invoke penalties and the cessation of the sale of cottage food products
until it deems that the situation has been addressed to the satisfaction of the
Illinois Department of Public Health or the Rosemont Health Department; if the
situation is not amenable to being addressed, the Rosemont Health Department
may revoke the cottage food operation's registration after a final decision
revoking the registration is made following a written charge, service of the
charge and notice of hearing upon the Cottage Food Operator, and a hearing
before the Village's Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer. The Cottage
Food Operator shall have the right to Counsel, the ability to cross-examine
witnesses and the right to submit documents, testimony, evidence and argument
in its defense.
(Ord. 2023-7-10C, 7-10-2023)
4-20F-5: COMPLAINTS FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS:
If the Rosemont Health Department receives a consumer complaint or a report of
foodborne illness related to a cottage food operator in another jurisdiction,
it shall refer the complaint or report to the local health department where the
cottage food operator is registered.
(Ord. 2023-7-10C, 7-10-2023)
4-20F-6: EXEMPTIONS:
A person who produces or packages a non-potentially hazardous baked good for
sale by a religious, charitable, or nonprofit organization for fundraising
purposes is exempt from the requirements of this Article.
(Ord. 2023-7-10C, 7-10-2023)
ARTICLE G: INSECT AND VERMIN CONTROL
Section
4-20G-1:   Definitions/Applicability.
4-20G-2:   Control Measures
4-20G-3:   Storage of Poisonous Compounds
4-20G-4:   Pest Control Information Log Book
4-20G-1: DEFINITION/APPLICABILITY:
When used in this article, the term FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT shall mean "food
processing establishments", "food service establishments", "mobile food units",
"temporary food service establishments" and "retail food stores", as these
terms are defined in the rules and regulations referenced herein. This
Article F of Chapter 20 shall be applicable to all Food Service establishments
and any other individual or entity that is required to be licensed under
Articles A, B, C, D and E of this Chapter 20 of Title 4 of the Village of
Rosemont's Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2023-9-11C, 9-11-2023)
4-20G-2: CONTROL MEASURES:
   A.   All necessary control measures shall be used to effectively minimize
and eliminate the presence of rodents, flies, roaches and other insects and
vermin on the premises.
   B.   When flies are prevalent, all openings to the outside shall be
effectively screened with 16-mesh wire or plastic cloth. All doors shall be
self-closing and screen doors to the outside shall open outward. In cases of
other unprotected openings, properly operating and approved air curtains or
fans of sufficient power, or other approved means to prevent the entrance of
flies shall be used.
   C.   Windows, doors, skylights, transoms and other openings shall be
screened. Screens shall be tight fitting and free from holes. All Food Service
Establishments shall be effectively rat-proofed to prevent the entrance of
rodents.
(Ord. 2023-9-11C, 9-11-2023)
4-20G-3: STORAGE OF POISONOUS COMPOUNDS:
All poisonous compounds used in the control or extermination of rodents or
insects or vermin shall be so colored as to be easily identified. The
containers of such insecticides and rodenticides shall be distinctly labeled
and stored in locked cabinets separate and apart from foods, food additives or
ingredients.
(Ord. 2023-9-11C, 9-11-2023)
4-20G-4: PEST CONTROL INFORMATION LOG BOOK:
All entities and individuals to which this Article G is applicable shall
maintain a log book on its premises containing the following pest control
information:
   A.   A record of any and all visits to the food establishment by any pest
control company describing all pest control-related activities conducted,
including inspections and applications of pesticides and or other methods to
control pests;
      1.   All food establishments shall contract with licensed exterminator
who shall provide insect and vermin service at the establishment at least once
per month.
   B.   The log book record shall include a copy of the service ticket that
sets forth the pest control company's Illinois Department of Public Health
license, and all information required by Section 830.820 of the Illinois
Administrative Code:
      1.   Written verification (i.e. signature and certification number) of
the certified technician responsible for using pesticides, or overseeing the
use of pesticides by non-certified personnel;
      2.   Date of application;
      3.   Specify the pest being targeted;
      4.   Pesticide use recorded in the following manner:
         a.   Brand or common name;
         b.   USEPA Registration Number;
         c.   Percent active ingredient in the finished product; and
         d.   Estimate the amount of each finished product used.
   C.   A record of all locations of all applications of pesticides, trap and
monitoring stations placed or monitored during the inspection;
   D.   A record of any recommended corrective action needed to eliminate the
condition, such as housekeeping deficiencies, pest harborages, or structural
deficiencies; and
   E.   All information in the log books shall be kept at the business location
and be available for inspection for a period of twelve (12) months.
(Ord. 2023-9-11C, 9-11-2023)
CHAPTER 21: BUSINESSES DEALING WITH ANIMALS
ARTICLE A: VETERINARY HOSPITALS
Section
4-21A-1:   Definition
4-21A-2:   License Required
4-21A-3:   Application for License
4-21A-4:   Regulations
4-21A-5:   Noisy Animals Prohibited
4-21A-6:   Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-21A-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this article, the term VETERINARY HOSPITAL shall mean any
institution, place or enclosure used for the harboring or reception for care or
treatment of two (2) or more horses, dogs, cats or other animals.
(Ord. 75-I2-I7D, 12-17-1975)
4-21A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall manage, conduct, operate or carry on the business of a
veterinary hospital without first having obtained a license as provided in this
title.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-21A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license under this article shall be made in conformance with
the general requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses.
The applicant shall provide all information requested by the Health and
Licensing Department.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-21A-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   All veterinary hospitals shall be kept free and clean from decaying
food and from filth of any kind.
   B.   Every licensed person shall make a report to the Health and Licensing
Department of any communicable diseases or disease due to poisoning which may
exist in the veterinary hospital.
   C.   Provisions shall be made in the veterinary hospital for securely
impounding any animal confined for observation for rabies. Special precaution
shall be taken to securely and separately confine any such animals during such
period of observation, and report shall be made to the Health and Licensing
Department of any such animal confined in any veterinary hospital.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-21A-5: NOISY ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
No person in the Village licensed under this article shall keep or harbor any
dog or other animal shut up or tied up in any yard, enclosure or on the
premises of a veterinary hospital, which by barking, howling, bawling, or other
noises, shall disturb the peace and quiet of any family, individual or
neighborhood.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-21A-6: INSPECTIONS:
Every veterinary hospital conducted, maintained or managed by any licensed
person shall at all times be open to the inspection by the Health and Licensing
Department, and the Health and Licensing Department is hereby authorized and
empowered to inspect the same, or cause inspection thereof to be made, whenever
and as often as it may deem proper; and if, upon such inspection, any such
hospital shall be found to be conducted, managed or maintained in violation of
the terms of the application for the license under which the hospital was
opened, conducted, managed or maintained, or any of the health or sanitary
ordinances, rules or regulations of the Village or of this Code, proceedings to
suspend or revoke the license may be initiated under this title.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 22: GENERAL BROKERS
Section
4-22-1:   Definition
4-22-2:   License Required
4-22-3:   Application Of Provisions To Employees
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-22-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this article, the term GENERAL BROKER shall mean any person, other
than an employee of the principal for whom the business is done, that
negotiates, buys, sells, trades, leases, or handles for another, on a
commission basis, or on the basis of compensation in proportion to the amount
of the transaction, any stocks, bonds, mortgages, loans, investment securities,
certificates of indebtedness, foreign exchange letters of credit, steamship
transportation tickets, grain, provisions, produce, livestock, goods, wares,
merchandise or any other commodity, article or property (except real property),
whether similar or dissimilar to those herein mentioned, or acts through the
medium of another licensed broker in the capacity and for any of the purposes
aforesaid.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-22-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of, or to
act in the capacity of, a general broker without first having obtained a
license to do so.
   B.   Where a person desires to engage in the business of a general broker at
more than one place within the Village, a separate license shall be required
for each of such places, and the full license fee shall be charged for each
such license issued.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-22-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO EMPLOYEES:
Any person employed by a person licensed as a general broker under the
provisions of this article who shall himself, on his own account and not as
such employee, be amenable to all the provisions of this article,
notwithstanding the fact of such employment, and shall be required to obtain a
general broker1s license.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 23: BARBERSHOPS/HAIR SALONS
Section
4-23-1:   Definition
4-23-2:   License Required
4-23-3:   Sanitation Requirements
4-23-4:   Location; Ventilation
4-23-5:   Inspections
4-23-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term BARBERSHOP/HAIR SALON shall mean any
building, room, place or establishment wherein the occupation is carried on of
cutting and dressing the hair of patrons for a consideration.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
4-23-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall establish, maintain or operate a barbershop/hair salon without
first having obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
4-23-3: SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every person licensed under this article to at
all times keep the licensed premises in a clean and properly sanitary
condition. All necessary measures shall be taken to properly safeguard the life
and health of patrons and all persons engaged therein against communicable and
contagious diseases. No person shall be permitted to be employed who shall be
afflicted with any communicable or contagious disease.
   B.   All persons employed or working in the licensed premises shall keep
themselves and their clothing clean, and shall be required to wash their hands
immediately before serving a customer. All towels and washcloths shall be
washed with soap and water and boiled before being used. All receptacles,
finger bowls, utensils, vessels, appliances, combs, brushes, hair management
and all similar items shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. Separate
receptacles shall be provided for soiled towels and separate receptacles for
receiving material and paper.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-23-4: LOCATION; VENTILATION:
No barbershop/hair salon shall be located or conducted except as an independent
unit, completely equipped as such, and separated from any living, dining or
sleeping apartment, restaurant or food establishment. The premises shall be
adequately ventilated in accordance with the requirements of this Code.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
4-23-5: INSPECTIONS:
The Health and Licensing Department shall cause periodic inspections to be made
of all establishments licensed hereunder to determine whether there is
compliance with the health and sanitation regulations of this Code.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 24: MASSAGE AND MICROBLADE BUSINESSES
ARTICLE A: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS AND THERAPISTS
Section
4-24A-1:   Definitions
4-24A-2:   State Therapist License Required
4-24A-3:   Business License Regulations
4-24A-3-1:   License Required
4-24A-3-2:   Application For License
4-24A-3-3:   License And Application Fees
4-24A-3-4:   Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-24A-3-5:   Number Of Licenses
4-24A-3-6:   Renewal Of License
4-24A-3-7:   Conditions Of And Restrictions Of License
4-24A-3-8:   Revocation Of License
4-24A-4:   Temporary Business License
4-24A-5:   Convention Massage And FOC Massage License Requirements
4-24A-5-1:   General License Requirements And Conditions
4-24A-5-2:   Applications For Permits
4-24A-5-3:   Issuance Or Denial Of Licenses
4-24A-6:   Display Of Licenses
4-24A-7:   Continued Reporting Of Identity Of Therapists And Employees
4-24A-8:   Sanitation And Safety Requirements
4-24A-9:   Hotel Massages
4-24A-10:   Prohibitions On And Conditions Of Giving Massages
4-24A-11:   Exemptions From Provisions
4-24A-12:   Enforcement Officials
4-24A-13:   Penalties
4-24A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CHAIR MASSAGE: A massage performed in a specialized chair used specifically for
the purpose of massage and limited to a client's head, neck, back, arms,
shoulders and legs.
CONVENTION MASSAGE: A chair massage performed by a massage therapist licensed
by the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation in an exhibit booth at
the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center or in an exhibit booth at a trade show
or public exhibition being held at another hotel or publicly owned exposition
site in the Village.
EMPLOYEE: Any person over sixteen (16) years of age, other than a massage
therapist, who renders any service in connection with the operation of a
massage establishment and receives compensation from the owner or operator of
the establishment or patrons.
FOC: Any retail shopping mall in excess of five hundred thousand (500,000)
square feet in floor area, including the Fashion Outlets of Chicago fashion
outlet shopping mall located at 5220 Fashion Outlets Way, Rosemont, Illinois.
FOC MASSAGE: A chair massage performed by a massage therapist licensed by the
Illinois Department of Professional Regulation and that possesses an FOC
massage license issued pursuant to this article, and that is performed in a
public kiosk space in the FOC that is provided, leased or licensed by the FOC
owner to the massage therapist for the purpose of providing chair massage as an
amenity for FOC shoppers.
FOC MASSAGE PREMISES: Public kiosk space within the FOC that is provided,
leased or licensed to a massage therapist with an FOC massage permit for the
purpose of providing chair massage as an amenity for FOC shoppers.
HEALTH CLUB: An indoor facility designed, intended and used as a location where
persons can exercise and where the providing of massages is ancillary to the
facility’s primary business. To qualify as a health club under this article, a
facility must have not less than ten (10) exercise machines and must comply
with the sanitation and safety requirements set forth in section 4-24A-8 of
this article.
HOME MASSAGE: A massage performed by a massage therapist licensed by the
Illinois Department of Professional Regulation at a patron’s place of
residence.
HOTEL ROOM MASSAGE: A massage performed by a massage therapist licensed by the
Illinois Department of Professional Regulation in a hotel or motel room for
which the patron is registered as an overnight guest.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where any person, for any
consideration whatsoever, engages in the practice of massage but does not
include any hospitals, nursing homes, facilities or offices at which a
healthcare worker duly licensed by the State of Illinois provides, on an
ongoing basis, professional health services to individuals including, but not
limited to, the Illinois Occupational Therapy Practice Act (225 ILCS 75/1 et
seq.); the Illinois Physical Therapy Act (225 ILCS 90/1 et seq.); the Medical
Practice Act (225 ILCS 60/1 et seq.); or the Illinois Naprapathic Practice Act
(225 ILCS 63/1 et seq.). For the purpose of this article, locations in the
Village where convention massages, hotel room massages, FOC massages,
promotional business massages or workplace massages may be allowed shall not be
considered as a massage establishment place of business.
MASSAGE OR MASSAGE THERAPY: A system of structured palpation or movement of the
soft tissue of the body. The system may include, but is not limited to,
techniques such as effleurage or stroking and gliding, petrissage or kneading,
tapotement or percussion, friction, vibration, compression, and stretching
activities as they pertain to massage therapy. These techniques may be applied
by a licensed massage therapist with or without the aid of lubricants, salt or
herbal preparations, hydromassage, thermal massage, or a massage device that
mimics or enhances the actions possible by human hands. "Massage" does not
include the diagnosis of a specific pathology. MASSAGE does not include those
acts of physical therapy or therapeutic or corrective measures that are outside
the scope of massage therapy practice as defined herein.
MASSAGE SERVICES: The providing of a massage or massages by any person, firm,
association or corporation and shall include chair massages, convention
massages, FOC massages, home massages, hotel massages, workplace massages,
promotional business massages or massages at a massage establishment.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: A person who is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Professional Regulation and administers massage for compensation. The use of
the masculine gender shall include in all cases the feminine gender as well.
PATRON: Any person who receives a massage under such circumstances that it is
reasonably expected that he will pay money or give other consideration for such
service.
PROMOTIONAL BUSINESS MASSAGE: A chair massage given at a place of business,
other than a massage establishment, which has been issued a business license by
the Village of Rosemont during regular business hours in order to promote the
business at the location where the massage is given. Promotional business
massages may be given at businesses where alcoholic beverages are consumed on
the premises; provided, that the business has a current Village of Rosemont
liquor license.
SHOW: A convention, trade show or public exhibition held on show premises.
SHOW PREMISES: Public exhibition space located within the Donald E. Stephens
Convention Center or within a hotel located in the Village of Rosemont where
convention massages will be given within public exhibit booths as part of a
show being presented on the show premises.
WORKPLACE MASSAGE: A chair massage performed by a massage therapist licensed
pursuant to the provisions of this article on a fully clothed patron in the
patron’s office or business setting in an area of the Village which is zoned
for commercial use.
(Ord. 2014-8-13N, 8-13-2014)
4-24A-2: STATE THERAPIST LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall provide massage services in the Village to any person unless he
or she has a valid and current massage therapist license issued to him or her
by the Illinois Department of Professional Registration or is exempt from
obtaining a massage therapist license from the Illinois Department of
Professional Registration under the provisions of section 25 of the Illinois
Massage Licensing Act (225 ILCS 57/25)
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REGULATIONS:
4-24A-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in or carry on the business
of a massage establishment in the Village without first obtaining a massage
business license issued by the Village pursuant to the provisions of this
article for each and every premises used for the business of providing massage
services. The applicant for such a business license must be at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
   B.   A person, firm or corporation that does not operate a massage
establishment in the Village shall not provide massage services in the Village
unless there has first been obtained a massage business license issued by the
Village pursuant to the provisions of this article. The applicant for such
business license must be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a massage business license shall be filed with the Director
of the Health and Licensing Department. The application fee for a massage
business license shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). The application
shall be made upon a form provided by the Director and shall be completed in
full and signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof, if not an individual, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
set forth:
      1.   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or otherwise.
      2.   Federal employee identification number (FEIN) and State of Illinois
tax number.
      3.   The name and business address under which the business is to be
conducted and, if different, the address of any massage establishment locations
within the Village.
      4.   For each massage establishment, the location and description of each
premises in which a massage establishment is to be operated in the Village
under such license, the square footage of the premises, a description of all
business activities performed on the premises, a detailed floor plan for the
premises and:
         a.   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided. The
term of such lease must not end until after the expiration date of the license
for which application is being made.
         b.   The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises and if said
premises is held in trust, the names and addresses of all the owners of the
beneficial interest of the trust.
      5.   In the case of an individual, the full name, home address with zip
code, social security number, date of birth, sex, a photo of the applicant and
a physical description of the applicant, including height, weight, color of
hair and eyes.
      6.   In the case of a partnership, the full names, home addresses with
zip codes, social security numbers, dates of birth, sex, photos and physical
descriptions including height, weight, color of hair and eyes of all partners
and any other persons entitled to share in the profits thereof.
      7.   In the case of a corporation or limited liability company, the
object for which organized, the names, home addresses with zip codes, dates of
birth, social security numbers, sex, photos and physical descriptions including
height, weight, color of hair and eyes of all officers, directors, managers,
members and all persons owning directly or beneficially more than ten percent
(10%) of the stock/interest of such corporation/limited liability company and
the persons acting as managers or assistant managers or other persons
principally in charge of the operation of the business.
      8.   The date of formation of the partnership, if a partnership; the date
of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation; the date of organization, if a
limited liability company; and the date of becoming qualified to transact
business in Illinois, if a foreign corporation or a foreign limited liability
company.
      9.   A description of the exact type of massages administered.
      10.   A complete list of the names, residence addresses with zip codes,
dates of birth, social security numbers, sex, photos and physical descriptions
including height, weight, color of hair and eyes, of all massage therapists and
employees working for the applicant.
      11.   A copy of the massage therapist licenses issued by the Illinois
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation for every massage therapist
providing massage services for the applicant.
      12.   The business, occupation, and employment of the applicant, if an
individual, for three (3) years preceding the date of application.
      13.   Whether applicant ever made an application for a license under this
article or a massage business license or similar license to a state or county,
city, village or other unit of local government, and if so, where and when, and
if such application was granted or denied, and if such application was denied,
the reasons for the denial.
      14.   Whether a license was ever issued to the applicant under this
article or a massage business license or similar license was ever issued by any
state or county, city or village or other unit of local government, and if so,
where and when, and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked and the
reasons for the suspension or revocation.
      15.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this article or any ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality which regulates massage establishments or the providing of
massages, or any Illinois statute regulating massage establishments or the
providing of massages.
      16.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of
a felony under the laws of this state or any other state, or under the laws of
the United States.
   B.   The applicant(s) shall submit a complete set of fingerprints with the
application. An applicant that is a partnership, corporation or a limited
liability company shall submit a complete set of fingerprints for all persons
that have a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in the entity. All such
fingerprinting shall be done by the Village Department of Public Safety. The
fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate State and/or Federal
agencies for processing as available. The cost of fingerprinting shall be paid
by the applicant in addition to any application or license fee.
   C.   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the Village, its
agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation
(including the submittal of fingerprint records to State and/or Federal
agencies) for the purpose of determining the truth of the statements set forth
in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for a license.
   D.   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation, and
identification of the applicant as the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department and/or the Chief of Public Safety shall deem necessary to determine
the identity of the applicant or to process the application.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-3-3: LICENSE AND APPLICATION FEES:
The annual license fee for a massage business license shall be as provided in
the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1B of this Code. The fee for an
application and/or a renewal application shall be three hundred dollars
($300.00). All applicable license fees and any other required fees shall be
paid prior to the issuance of any license.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011; amd. 2019 Code)
4-24A-3-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Upon receipt of a properly completed application for a massage business
license, the Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall submit the
completed application to the Chief of Public Safety for evaluation. Upon
receiving the application for a massage business license, the Chief of Public
Safety shall conduct an investigation into the applicant's personal and
criminal history.
   B.   Where a massage establishment is proposed to be located in the Village,
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall cause the premises to
be licensed to be inspected to assure that the proposed operation complies with
all applicable laws, including Building, Electrical, Plumbing, Health, Housing,
Zoning, and Fire Codes of the Village and any other regulations of the Village
relating to the public health, safety and welfare.
   C.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall either issue
a massage business license or notify the applicant in writing that the
application has been denied. The license shall be denied if the applicant fails
to comply with the requirements of this article or with the requirements of any
other provision of this Code which is applicable to the business and/or
activities of the applicant. In addition, no license shall be issued to any
applicant if:
      1.   The proposed premises or place of business for the massage
establishment does not comply with all applicable laws including, but not
limited to, Building, Electrical, Plumbing, Health, Housing, Zoning and Fire
Codes of the Village; or
      2.   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the officers, directors,
members, managers, or any person owning directly or beneficially more than ten
percent (10%) of the stock/interest of the corporation/limited liability
company if the applicant is a corporation or limited liability company; or any
of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership;
and the manager, assistant manager or any other person principally in charge of
the operation of the business, has been:
         a.   Convicted of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or
any other state, or under the Federal laws of the United States, within five
(5) years of the date of the application; or
         b.   Convicted of a sex offense as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes section 5/11, or any equivalent law of any state within five (5) years
of the date of the application; or
         c.   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of any provision
of this article; or
         d.   The applicant has had a massage business, massage therapist or
similar license denied, suspended or revoked by the Village, by a state or by a
unit of local government within five (5) years of the date of the application;
or
         e.   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of an ordinance
of any other Illinois municipality regulating massage establishments or massage
therapists; or
         f.   The applicant has been convicted of any other criminal offense
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude within five (5) years of
the date of the application; or
         g.   The applicant has knowingly made false, misleading or fraudulent
statements of fact in the license application or in any document required by
the Village in conjunction with the license application.
   D.   In the event that the massage business license is denied for failure to
comply with the requirements of this article, the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department shall immediately notify the applicant in writing of the
reasons for the denial. If the failure is not cured within ten (10) days after
the date on which the Director denies the issuance of said license, the
application shall be null and void.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-3-5: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
No more than four (4) massage business licenses shall be issued at any given
time.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-3-6: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
An application for renewal of a massage business license shall be filed with
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department. The application shall be
made upon a form provided by the Director and shall be completed in full and
signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent
thereof, if not an individual, and verified by oath or affidavit. Except, the
Director may allow the renewing applicant to only submit any information that
has changed from the last application, provided the renewal applicant certifies
that all the other information remains the same. The Director, in his
discretion, may also waive the submission of fingerprints for the renewal
application.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-3-7: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Supervision:
      1.   A massage business licensee that operates a massage establishment
shall have the premises supervised at all times when open for business.
      2.   Any massage establishment rendering massage services shall have at
least one person who has a valid massage therapist's license issued by the
Illinois Department of Professional Regulation on the premises at all times
while the establishment is open.
      3.   The licensee shall personally supervise the massage establishment
and shall not violate, or permit others to violate, any applicable provisions
of this article.
      4.   The violation of any provisions by any agent or employee of a
massage establishment shall constitute a violation of the licensee.
   B.   Separate Licenses For Each Premises: A license issued for a massage
establishment shall apply only to the premises described in the application and
in the license issued thereon, and only one location shall be so described in
each license.
   C.   Nontransferability Of License: A massage business license shall be a
purely personal privilege, effective for a period not to exceed one year after
issuance unless sooner revoked as provided in this article, and shall not
constitute property. No massage business license is transferable, separate or
divisible, and such authority as a license confers shall be conferred only on
the licensee named therein.
   D.   Appointment Books: Every massage business licensee shall at all times
keep an appointment book in which the name of each and every patron shall be
entered, together with the time, date and place of service, and the service
provided. Such book shall be available at all times for inspection by the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department or his authorized
representative.
   E.   Minors: No person, firm or corporation licensed under the provisions of
this article shall permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) to come or
remain on the premises of any massage establishment or receive any type of
massage, unless such person is an employee of the massage business
establishment or is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   F.   Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited: No person, firm or corporation shall
sell, give, dispense, provide, or keep, or cause to be sold, given, dispensed,
provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of any massage
establishment.
   G.   Entry Powers For Inspections: The Director of the Health and Licensing
Department, any duly authorized public safety officer, or a health inspector of
the Village shall have the right to enter the premises of any massage
establishment for the purpose of inspecting the premises or operations therein.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-3-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued under this article may, after a hearing, be revoked
by the Director of the Health and Licensing Department, during the term of such
license for the violation by the licensee of any provision of this article, a
violation of any other ordinance of the Village relating to the license, the
subject of the license or to the premises occupied, or any applicable provision
of Federal or State law. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine
imposed. Prior to a revocation hearing, the licensee shall be provided with
notice of the reasons revocation is being sought. At the hearing, the licensee
may be represented by counsel, who may call witnesses to testify and who may
cross examine witnesses. After the hearing, the Director shall prepare a
written decision stating the reasons for his decision. The licensee may appeal
a decision revoking the license to the Village President whose decision shall
be final.
   B.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the massage
business license of any licensed proprietor who refuses to permit a public
safety officer or other employee of the Village who is authorized to make an
inspection of the licensed premises, or who interferes with such public safety
officer or other employee while in the performance of his/her duty in making
such inspection may be revoked pursuant to the procedures set forth in
subsection A of this section.
   C.   If a massage business license is revoked for any cause, no massage
business license shall be granted to any person for a period of one year after
the date of the revocation that will allow a massage business to be operated on
the premises described in the revoked license unless the revocation order has
been vacated.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-4: TEMPORARY BUSINESS LICENSE:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department may in his discretion,
award a temporary massage business license for up to thirty (30) calendar days
to an applicant who has filed a complete application and paid the required fee
so long as the Director is aware of no reason that would require the denial of
a massage business license.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-5: CONVENTION MASSAGE AND FOC MASSAGE; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
4-24A-5-1: GENERAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   A massage therapist licensed by the Illinois Department of Professional
Regulation may provide convention massage services at a show for a period not
to exceed three (3) days; provided that, the therapist has first obtained a
convention massage license issued by the Village pursuant to the provisions of
this article. The applicant for such license must be at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   A massage therapist licensed by the Illinois Department of Professional
Regulation may provide Fashion Outlets of Chicago (FOC) massage services at the
FOC; provided, that the therapist has first obtained an FOC massage license.
FOC massage license shall be valid for a license year commencing January 1, or
on the date of issuance, and expiring on December 31 of the same year. An
applicant for an FOC massage license 1) must be at least eighteen (18) years of
age; and 2) shall demonstrate that the therapist has either been hired by the
FOC to provide FOC massage services or has leased or licensed an FOC kiosk
space from the FOC owner for the purpose of providing chair massage at the FOC
as an amenity for FOC shoppers.
   C.   A massage establishment business license is not required for the
issuance of a convention massage license or an FOC massage license.
   D.   Convention massage services may only be provided in show premises, and
only during the term of the convention massage license issued to the massage
therapist.
   E.   FOC massage services may only be provided in FOC massage premises, and
only during the term of the FOC massage license issued to the massage
therapist.
(Ord. 2014-8-13N, 8-13-2014)
4-24A-5-2: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
A.    An application for a convention massage license shall be filed with the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department. The fee for a convention
massage permit shall be twenty dollars ($20.00).
   B.   An application for an FOC massage license shall be filed with the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department. The annual fee for an FOC
massage license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   C.   Applications shall be made upon a form provided by the Director and
shall be completed in full and signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by
a duly authorized agent thereof, if not an individual, verified by oath or
affidavit, and shall set forth:
      1.   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or otherwise.
         a.   In the case of an individual, the full name, home address with
zip code, social security number, date of birth, sex, a photo of the applicant
and a physical description of the applicant, including height, weight, and
color of hair and eyes.
         b.   In the case of a partnership, the full names, home addresses with
zip codes, social security numbers, dates of birth, sex, photos and physical
descriptions including height, weight, and color of hair and eyes of all
partners.
         c.   In the case of a corporation or limited liability company, the
names, home addresses with zip codes, dates of birth, social security numbers,
sex, photos and physical descriptions including height, weight, and color of
hair and eyes of all officers, directors, managers and members.
      2.   In the case of a convention massage license, a complete list of the
names, residence addresses with zip codes, dates of birth, social security
numbers, sex, photos and physical descriptions including height, weight, and
color of hair and eyes of all massage therapists that will provide convention
massage services during the show.
      3.   In the case of an FOC massage license, a complete list of the names,
residence addresses with zip codes, dates of birth, social security numbers,
sex, photos and physical descriptions including height, weight, and color of
hair and eyes of all massage therapists that will provide FOC massage services.
      4.   A copy of the massage therapist licenses issued by the Illinois
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation for every massage therapist
that will provide convention massage or FOC massage services, as applicable.
      5.   The names and addresses of any massage establishment at which the
applicant or applicant's massage therapists have worked in the two (2) years
prior to the date of the application.
      6.   Whether the applicant or the applicant's massage therapists that
will provide convention massage or FOC massage services has ever:
         a.   Had a massage business license or similar license revoked,
suspended or denied by a state or county, city, village or other unit of local
government. If so, the applicant shall state where and when such license was
revoked, suspended or denied, and the reasons for such action.
         b.   Has ever been convicted of a violation of any state, county or
municipal statute or ordinance regulating massage establishments or the
providing of massages.
         c.   Has ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under the
laws of this State, or any other state, or under the laws of the United States.
   D.   The applicant shall submit a complete set of fingerprints for all
massage therapists that will provide convention massage or FOC massage services
pursuant to the application. All such fingerprinting shall be done by the
Village Department of Public Safety. The fingerprints shall be submitted to the
appropriate State and/or Federal agencies for processing as available. The cost
of fingerprinting shall be paid by the applicant in addition to any application
or license fee.
   E.   If required by the Director of the Health and Licensing Department, the
applicant shall submit a written authorization for the Village, its agents and
employees to seek information and conduct an investigation (including the
submittal of fingerprint records to State and/or Federal agencies) for the
purpose of determining the truth of the statements set forth in the application
and the qualifications of the applicant for a license.
   F.   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation, and
identification of the applicant as the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department and/or the Chief of Public Safety shall deem necessary to determine
the identity of the applicant or to process the application.
(Ord. 2014-8-13N, 8-13-2014)
4-24A-5-3: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSES:
   A.   Upon receipt of a properly completed application for a convention
massage or FOC massage license, the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department shall submit the completed application to the Superintendent of
Public Safety for evaluation. The Superintendent shall conduct an investigation
into the applicant’s personal and criminal history.
   B.   The Director shall cause the show premises to be inspected to assure
that convention massage services to be provided will comply the requirements of
this article and any other regulations of the Village relating to public
health, safety and welfare.
   C.   The Director shall cause the FOC massage premises to be inspected to
assure that FOC massage services to be provided will comply the requirements of
this article and any other regulations of the Village relating to public
health, safety and welfare.
   D.   A massage license under this section shall be denied if the applicant
fails to comply with the requirements of this article or with the requirements
of any other provision of this Code which is applicable to the business and/or
activities of the applicant. In addition, no license shall be issued to any
applicant if:
      1.   The proposed show premises or FOC massage premises (as applicable)
does not comply with the requirements of this article; or
      2.   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the officers, directors,
members, managers, or any person owning directly or beneficially more than ten
percent (10%) of the stock/interest of the corporation/limited liability
company if the applicant is a corporation or limited liability company; or any
of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership;
and the manager, assistant manager or any other person principally in charge of
the operation of the business, does not meet the requirements of subsection 4-
24A-3-4C2 of this article.
   E.    In the event that the application, for convention massage license or
FOC massage license is denied for failure to comply with the requirements of
this article, the Director shall immediately notify the applicant in writing of
the reasons for the denial. If the failure is not cured within ten (10) days
after the date on which the Director denies the issuance of the license, the
application shall be null and void.
(Ord. 2014-8-13N, 8-13-2014)
4-24A-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSES:
   A.   The massage business license and the massage therapist license issued
by the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation for each and every
massage therapist working in a massage establishment shall be displayed in an
open and conspicuous place on the premises of the massage establishment. A
massage therapist who performs a hotel room massage, promotional business
massage or workplace massage shall have a copy of his massage therapist license
issued by the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation and a copy of the
Village issued massage business license he is working under with him when
performing such massages and shall display said licenses upon request by the
massage patron or an officer or other employee of the Village authorized to
administer this article.
   B.   A massage therapist who performs a convention massage pursuant to a
convention massage license, shall have a copy of his massage therapist license
issued by the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation and a copy of the
Village issued convention massage license he is working under with him when
performing such massages and shall display said licenses upon request by the
massage patron, the show sponsor, or an officer or other employee of the
Village authorized to administer this article.
   C.   A massage therapist who performs FOC massages pursuant to an FOC
massage license shall have a copy of his massage therapist license issued by
the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation and a copy of the Village
issued FOC massage license he is working under with him when performing such
massages, and shall display said license upon request by the massage patron
customer, FOC management, or an officer or other employee of the Village
authorized to administer this article.
(Ord. 2014-8-13N, 8-13-2014)
4-24A-7: CONTINUED REPORTING OF THE IDENTITY OF THERAPISTS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   All massage business licensees shall have a continuing duty to provide
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department with a list of all massage
therapists authorized to work for the licensed business. A licensed massage
business shall not allow any massage therapist to work on its behalf in the
Village until after the Director has received information on the massage
therapist’s name, residence address with zip code, date of birth, social
security number, sex, photo and a physical description including height,
weight, and color of hair and eyes. All massage business licensees shall advise
the Director of the identity of any massage therapist that is no longer
authorized to work on its behalf in writing within two (2) business days after
this change in status. The written notice of the massage therapist’s change in
status shall include the last date the massage therapist was authorized to work
for the licensee.
   B.   All massage business licensees shall have a continuing duty to provide
the Director with a list of all employees and agents (other than massage
therapists) working for the licensed business. A licensed massage business
shall not allow any such employee or agent to work on its behalf in the Village
until after the Director has received information on the individual’s name,
residence address with zip code, date of birth, social security number, sex,
photo and a physical description including height, weight, and color of hair
and eyes. All massage business licensees shall advise the Director of the
identity of any employee that is no longer working on its behalf in writing
within two (2) business days after this change in status. The written notice of
the employee’s change in status shall include the last date the employee was
authorized to work for the licensee.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-8: SANITATION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
All massage establishments shall be periodically inspected by the Director of
Public Works and/or the Director of the Health and Licensing Department, or
their duly authorized representatives, for safety of the structure and adequacy
of plumbing, ventilation, heating, illumination and fire protection. In
addition, the premises of all massage establishments shall comply with the
following regulations:
   A.   The walls shall be clean and painted with washable, mold resistant
paint in all rooms where water or steam baths are given;
   B.   Floors shall be free from any accumulation of dust, dirt or refuse;
   C.   All equipment used in the massage operation shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition;
   D.   Soap, towels and laundered sheets must be provided, and all such
towels, linen and items for personal use of operators and patrons shall be
clean and freshly laundered;
   E.   Towels, cloths and sheets shall not be used for more than one patron;
provided, however, heavy white paper may be substituted for sheets; provided,
that such paper is changed for every patron.
   F.   All massage services or practices are prohibited in any cubicle, room,
or booth or any area within a massage establishment which is fitted with a door
capable of being locked.
   G.   Separate toilets, dressing room facilities, lockers, steam baths, tubs
and showers shall be provided for each sex.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-9: HOTEL MASSAGES:
Hotel massages are only allowable if there is compliance with each and every
one of the requirements of this article and all of the following conditions:
   A.   Hotel massages shall only be given between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Hotel massages shall only be scheduled by
appointment. No appointment shall be scheduled to begin after nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. The massage therapist shall not remain in the room after ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.
   B.   The massage therapist shall maintain a book/binder into which the
following information for each hotel massage shall be recorded: 1) the name of
the massage therapist; 2) the massage therapist's Illinois massage therapy
license number; 3) the name of the Village massage business licensee for whom
the massage therapist is working; 4) the name of the client for the hotel
massage; 5) the date of the hotel massage; 6) the hotel name and the hotel room
number for the massage; and 7) a copy of an e-mail to the hotel's designated
representative sent prior to the hotel massage that advises the hotel of the
client's name, date, time and room number for massage services. The e-mail
shall also contain the massage therapist's Illinois massage therapy license
number and Village license number under which the therapist is working at the
time and date of the scheduled massage services. The massage therapist shall
have a copy of the book/binder required by this subsection at all times the
therapist is on the premises of a hotel for the purpose of performing a hotel
massage and shall turn his book/binder over to any Village employee immediately
upon request. Within one business day after a request of the Director of the
Health and Licensing Department or any other Village representative, the
massage therapist shall submit a copy his book/binder to the Village.
   C.   The massage therapist shall at all times wear an identification badge
stating his name and the name of the Village massage business licensee he is/
are working for.
   D.   The message therapist shall wear a uniform of the type and kind
determined by the Village massage business licensee.
   E.   A massage therapist who performs a hotel room massage shall have a copy
of his massage therapist's license issued by the Illinois Department of
Professional Regulation and a copy of the Village issued massage business
license he is working under with him when performing such massage and shall
display said licenses upon request by the patron or an officer or other
employee of the Village authorized to administer this article.
   F.   It shall be a violation of this section for the owner and/or operator
of any hotel or motel and/or any employee or agent of any hotel or motel to
refer a guest desiring a hotel massage to: 1) any business providing massage
services that does not have a Village massage business license; or 2) to any
massage therapist that does not have a Village massage business license and is
not working for a business that has a massage business license.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-10: PROHIBITIONS ON AND CONDITIONS OF GIVING MASSAGES:
   A.   A patron’s sexual or genital area, including the genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, anus, or perineum of the patron, or the vulva or breasts of a female,
must be covered by towels, cloths or undergarments when in the presence of a
massage therapist or employee.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, intentionally, in a massage
establishment, or while a home massage, convention massage, promotional
business massage or workplace massage is being provided, to place his hand
upon, to touch with any part of his body, to fondle in any manner, or to
massage the genital area of another person.
   C.   No massage therapist or employee shall perform or offer or agree to
perform any act which would require the touching of the patron’s genital area.
   D.   No massage therapist shall administer a massage to a patron exhibiting
any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation, or skin eruption, unless a
physician duly licensed by the State of Illinois certifies in writing that such
person may be safely massaged prescribing the conditions thereof.
   E.   A massage therapist providing any type of massage shall wear
appropriate undergarments and outer garments, including a brassiere, if the
massage therapist is a woman. The outer garments being worn must be clean and
suitable. A massage therapist providing any type of massage shall not
intentionally display the undergarments he is wearing to the patron.
   F.   A home massage shall not be given to any person except in the dwelling
unit where the person resides.
   G.   A workplace massage shall be performed in an open communal area, or in
an office, but only if the door to the office is unlocked and is open at least
six inches (6") while the massage is being performed. For purposes of this
article, an office or business shall not include a hotel room.
   H.   No massage shall be given by a massage therapist in a massage
establishment to any person who is less than eighteen (18) years of age unless
such person’s parent or legal guardian is present and signs a consent
authorizing his child to receive a massage. No convention massage, promotional
business massage or workplace massage shall be given to any person who is less
than eighteen (18) years of age.
   I.   Promotional business massages may be given only on weekdays and only
during the hours from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and
must be given in the area that is accessible to all persons who are legally on
the premises where the promotional business massage is being given.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-11: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the Village,
hospitals, sanitariums, persons holding an unrevoked certificate to practice
the healing arts under the laws of the State of Illinois, or persons working
under the direction of any such person or in any such establishment; nor shall
this article apply to barbers or cosmetologists lawfully carrying out their
respective businesses under a valid, unrevoked license or certificate of
registration issued by the State of Illinois.
   B.   No provisions contained in this article shall be construed to apply to
any person, business, or conduct regulated by the provisions of the Illinois
Physical Therapy Registration Act (225 ILCS 90/1 et seq.).
   C.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to a HEALTH CLUB, as
defined in section 4-24A-1 of this article; provided, that there is compliance
with section 4-24A-8 of this article while any massages are given on the
premises of a health club.
   D.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to a massage therapist
licensed by the Illinois Department of Professional Regulation employed by a
hotel to provide massages to registered overnight guests of the hotel.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-12: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department and his deputies shall have
the duty to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
4-24A-13: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation including, but not limited to, the owner or
operator of any hotel or motel in the Village; any employee, agent, or
individual working at any hotel or motel in the Village; any massage therapist;
and any Village massage business licensee found guilty of violating any
obligation imposed upon them in this article shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. The license of
any person found guilty of violating any provision of this article may be
revoked.
(Ord. 2011-12-14N, 12-14-2011)
ARTICLE B: MICROBLADE ESTABLISHMENTS AND ARTISTS
Section
4-24B-1:   Definitions
4-24B-2:   Licenses Required; Qualifications; Expiration And Renewal
4-24B-3:   Applications For Licenses
4-24B-4:   License Fees
4-24B-5:   Issuance Or Denial Of Licenses
4-24B-6:   Display Of Licenses
4-24B-7;   Sanitation And Safety Requirements
4-24B-8:   Conditions Of And Restrictions On Business License
4-24B-9:   Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-24B-10:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
4-24B-11:   Enforcement
4-24B-12:   Violations A Nuisance
4-24B-13:   Penalties
4-24B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
DEPARTMENT: The Village of Rosemont Health and Licensing Department.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Village of Rosemont Health and Licensing
Department.
EMPLOYEE: Any person, including an independent contractor, who works in or at
or renders any service directly related to the operation of a microblade
establishment, whether or not such person is paid compensation by the operator
of the business or patrons.
MANAGER: Any person who manages, directs, supervises, administers, or is in
charge of the affairs and/or the conduct of a microblade establishment.
MICROBLADE ARTIST: A person who conducts or practices microblading activities
and/or procedures.
MICROBLADE ESTABLISHMENT OPERATOR OR OPERATOR: An individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other entity engaged in the business of owning,
managing, or offering services of microblade.
MICROBLADE ESTABLISHMENT OR ESTABLISHMENT: A microblade business or operation,
whether public or private, temporary or permanent in nature or location, profit
or not for profit.
MICROBLADE OR MICROBLADING: A semipermanent coloration of the skin or mucosa by
placing ink or other pigment into the skin or mucosa by the aid of needles or
any other instrument or process to simulate hair, skin, or makeup. MICROBLADING
may include, but is not limited to, the application of fine deposits of
cosmetic ink or tattoo pigments to skin or mucosa, a semipermanent application
of pigment to emulate the application of makeup, lip coloring, eye liner, or a
process that provides a means to partially or fully camouflage missing eyebrow
hair with the appearance of simulated hair using fine deposits of cosmetic
tattoo pigments. MICROBLADING may also be known as embroidery, microstroking,
feather touch and hair-like strokes. MICROBLADING does not include any of the
following: a) the practice of “electrolog”, as defined in the Electrology
Licensing Act (225 ILCS 412/1 et seq.); b) the practice of “acupuncture”, as
defined in the Acupuncture License Act (225 ILCS 2/1 et seq.); and c) the use
by a physician licensed to practice medicine in all its branches of colors,
dyes, or pigments for the purpose of obscuring scar tissue or imparting color
to the skin for cosmetic, medical or figurative purposes.
PERSON: Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust, partnership,
corporation, or limited liability company.
SANITATION: The effective bactericidal and virucidal of clean equipment
surfaces by a process that effectively destroys pathogens.
SINGLE USE: Products or items that are intended for one-time, one-person use
and are disposed of after use on each client including, but not limited to,
cotton swabs or balls, tissues or paper products, paper or plastic cups, gauze
and sanitary coverings, razors, piercing needles, needles, scalpels, blades,
microblades, stencils, ink cups and protective gloves.
STERILIZE: To destroy all living organisms including spores.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; QUALIFICATIONS; EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL: 
   A.   Microblade Business License:
      1.   No person shall engage in or carry on the business of operating a
microblade establishment in the Village without first obtaining a microblade
business license issued by the department in accordance with the provisions, of
this article.
      2.   The applicant for such a business license must be at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
      3.   A license shall expire one year from the date of its issuance. The
renewal of a license shall follow the same provisions under this article for
the application, issuance and denial of a license.
      4.   The Department shall not issue more than two (2) microblade business
licenses.
   B.   Microblade Artist License:
      1.   No person shall conduct or practice microblading on any premises for
which a business license has been issued or is required under subsection A of
this section unless that person has a valid and current microblade artist
license issued by the Department in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
      2.   The applicant for such a license must be at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
      3.   A license shall expire one year from the date of its issuance. The
renewal of a license shall follow the same provisions under this article for
the application, issuance and denial of a license.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Microblade Business License:
      1.   An application for a microblade business license shall be filed with
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department. The application shall be
made upon a form provided by the department, and shall be completed in full and
signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent
thereof, if not an individual, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall set
forth:
         a.   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation, or otherwise.
         b.   The name under which the business is to be conducted.
         c.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
            (1)   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided.
The term of such lease must not end until after the expiration date of the
license for which application is being made.
            (2)   The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises and, if
said premises is held in trust, the names and addresses of all the owners of
the beneficial interest of the trust.
         d.   In the case of an individual, the full name, home address with
zip code, social security number, date of birth, sex and a physical description
of the applicant, including height, weight, and color of hair and eyes.
         e.   In the case of a partnership, the full names, home addresses with
zip codes, social security numbers, dates of birth, sex and physical
descriptions including height, weight, and color of hair and eyes of all
partners and any other persons entitled to share in the profits thereof.
         f.   In the case of a corporation, the object for which organized, the
names, home addresses with zip codes, dates of birth, social security numbers,
sex and physical descriptions including height, weight, and color of hair and
eyes of all officers, directors, and all persons owning directly or
beneficially more than ten percent (10%) of the stock of such corporation and
the persons acting as managers or assistant managers or other persons
principally in charge of the operation of the business.
         g.   The date of formation of the partnership, if a partnership; the
date of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation; or the date of becoming
qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation Act (805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.)
to transact business in Illinois if a foreign corporation.
         h.   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all
microblade artists and employees employed by the business and the names and
residence addresses of all managers, assistant managers or other persons
principally in charge of the operation of the business.
         i.   The business, occupation, and employment of the applicant, if an
individual, for three (3) years preceding the date of application.
         j.   Whether the applicant ever made an application for a license
under this article or a microblade business license or similar license to a
state or county, city, village or other unit of local government, and if so,
where and when, and if the application was granted or denied, and if the
application was denied, the reasons for the denial.
         k.   Whether a license was ever issued to the applicant under this
article or a microblade business license or similar license was ever issued by
any state or county, city or village or other unit of local government, and if
so, where and when, and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked and
the reasons for the suspension or revocation.
         l.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this article or any ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality which regulates microblade establishments or microblade artists,
or any Illinois statute regulating microblade establishments.
         m.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of this State, or any other state, or under the laws
of the United States.
         n.   Evidence that the applicant is covered by policies of
comprehensive general liability insurance, including bodily injury and property
damage; and adequate workers’ compensation and vehicle insurance unless the
Village President, in his sole discretion, waives any or all of these insurance
requirements.
      2.   The applicant shall submit a complete set of fingerprints with the
application. All such fingerprinting shall be done by the Village Department of
Public Safety. The fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate State
and/or Federal agencies for processing as available. The cost of fingerprinting
shall be paid by the applicant in addition to any application or license fee.
      3.   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the Village,
its agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into
the truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications
of the applicant for a license.
      4.   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation,
and identification of the applicant as the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department shall deem necessary to determine the identity of the applicant or
to process the application.
      5.   The applicant shall submit such other documentation or information
showing the following:
         a.   Proof of completion of a bloodborne pathogen training program,
compliant with the OSHA Bloodborne Pathogens requirement (29 CFR 1910.1030),
for each body artist employed by the applicant.
         b.   The type and year of manufacture of the equipment proposed to be
used for microblading.
         c.   The sterilization and operation procedures to be used by the
microblading establishment.
         d.   A floor plan of the licensed premises, showing the location of
required facilities and work stations.
         e.   Compliance with the sanitation and safety requirements under
section 4-24B-7 of this article.
         f.   Compliance with applicable Property Maintenance, Zoning and
Building Codes.
      6.   The applicant shall submit to an inspection of the licensed premises
by the Village to verify information contained in the application.
   B.   Microblade Artist License:
      1.   An application for a microblade artist license shall be filed with
the Director of the Health and Licensing Department. The application shall be
made upon a form provided by the department, and shall be completed in full and
signed by the applicant, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall set forth:
         a.   The business address and telephone numbers where the applicant
will be providing microblading.
         b.   The full name, home address with zip code, social security
number, date of birth, sex and a physical description of the applicant,
including height, weight, and color of hair and eyes.
         c.   The business, occupation, and employment of the applicant for
three (3) years preceding the date of application.
         d.   Whether the applicant has ever made an application for a
microblade artist license under this article, or a microblade artist or similar
license to a state or county, city or village or other unit of local
government, and if so, where and when and if such application was granted or
denied, and if such application was denied, the reasons for the denial.
         e.   Whether a microblade artist license was ever issued to the
applicant under this article or a microblade artist or similar license was ever
issued by any state or county, city or village or other unit of local
government, and if so, where and when, and if such license has ever been
suspended or revoked and the reasons for the suspension or revocation.
         f.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this article or any ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality which regulates microblade establishments or the practice of
microblading, or any Illinois statute regulating microblading.
         g.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of this State, or any other state, or under the laws
of the United States.
      2.   The applicant shall submit a statement in writing from a physician
duly licensed in the State of Illinois that he has examined the applicant and
believes the applicant to be free of all communicable diseases. An applicant is
required to undergo an annual physical examination and to furnish a medical
certificate relating to communicable diseases with his annual fee.
      3.   The applicant shall submit a complete set of fingerprints with the
application for a microblade artist license. All such fingerprinting shall be
done by the Department of Public Safety. The fingerprints shall be submitted to
the appropriate State and/or Federal agencies for processing as available. The
cost of fingerprinting shall be paid by the applicant in addition to any other
required license or application fee.
      4.   The applicant shall submit a written authorization for the Village,
its agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into
the truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications
of the applicant for a license.
      5.   The applicant shall submit such other information, documentation,
and identification of the applicant as the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department shall deem necessary to determine the identity of the applicant or
to process the application.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-4: LICENSE FEES:
The annual license fees for a microblade business license and a microblade
artist license shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule in section 3-
10-1 of the Village Code. All applicable license fees and any other required
fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license.
(Ord, 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSES:
   A.   Upon receipt of a properly completed application for a microblade
business license or a microblade artist license, the Director of the Health and
Licensing Department shall submit the completed application to the
Superintendent of Public Safety, who shall conduct an investigation into the
applicant's moral character and personal and criminal history.
   B.   In the case of an application for a microblade business license, the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall cause the premises to be
licensed to be inspected to determine that the proposed operation complies with
all applicable laws, including Building, Electrical, Plumbing, Health, Housing,
Zoning, and Fire Codes of the Village and any other regulations of the Village
relating to the public health, safety and welfare.
   C.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall either issue
a license or notify the applicant in writing that the application has been
denied. The license shall be denied if the applicant fails to comply with the
requirements of this article or with the requirements of any other provision of
this Code which is applicable to the business and/or activities of the
applicant. In addition, no license shall be issued to any applicant if:
      1.   The proposed operation does not comply with all applicable laws
including, but not limited to, Building, Electrical, Plumbing, Health, Housing,
Zoning and Fire Codes of the Village; or
2 .   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the officers, directors, any
person owning directly or beneficially more than ten percent (10%) of the stock
of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners,
including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager,
assistant manager or any other person principally in charge of the operation of
the business, has been:
         a.   Convicted of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or
any other state, or under the Federal laws of the United States, within five
(5) years of the date of the application; or
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
         b.   Convicted of an offense involving the unlawful tattooing or body
piercing of a minor as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12C-35, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12C-40, or any equivalent law of any state within
five (5) years of the date of the application; or
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018; amd. 2019 Code)
         c.   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of any provision
of this article; or
         d.   The applicant has had a microblade business license, microblade
artist license or similar license denied, suspended or revoked by the Village,
by a state or by a unit of local government within five (5) years of the date
of the application; or
         e.   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of an ordinance
of any other Illinois municipality regulating microblade establishments or
microblade artists; or
         f.   The applicant has been convicted of any other criminal offense
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude within five (5) years of
the date of the application; or
         g.   The applicant has knowingly made false, misleading or fraudulent
statements of fact in the license application or in any document required by
the Village in conjunction with the license application; or
         h.   The applicant has failed to provide information required by the
license application or this article; or
         i.   The applicant is currently under suspension or revocation of a
license related to microblading issued by the Village or any other jurisdiction
for a violation which would be a violation under the provisions of this
article; or
         j.   The applicant is overdue on payment to the Village of fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed upon the
applicant in relation to microblading.
   D.   In the event that the license is denied for failure to comply with the
requirements of this article, the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department shall immediately notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for
the denial. If the failure is not cured within ten (10) days after the date on
which the Director denies the issuance of the license, the application shall be
null and void.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-6: DISPLAY OF LICENSES:
The microblade business license and the microblade artist license of all
microblade artists employed by the microblade establishment shall be displayed
in an open and conspicuous place of the premises to be licensed.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-7: SANITATION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required Information On File: The following information shall be kept
on file on the premises of a microblade establishment and shall be available
for inspection by the Director of the Health and Licensing Department or the
Director’s authorized representative:
      1.   Microblade Artist Information:
         a.   Full names and exact duties;
         b.   Dates of birth;
         c.   Home addresses;
         d.   Home and work telephone numbers;
         e.   Identification photographs;
         f.   Current places of employment;
      g.   Training documentation/certificates; and
         h.   Proof of completion of a bloodborne pathogen training program
compliant with bloodborne pathogens, OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.1030.
      2.   Establishment Information:
      a.   Name of establishment;
         b.   Hours of operation;
         c.   Owner’s name and home address;
         d.   A copy of the operation procedure required under this section;
         e.   Owner’s telephone numbers; and
         f.   A complete description of all body art procedures performed.
      3.   Operation Procedure Information: The microblade establishment
operator shall prepare, maintain and implement an operation procedure that
meets the following requirements:
         a.   The operation procedure shall provide for response to the
occurrence of any sudden, serious and unexpected sickness or injury that would
lead a reasonable person, possessing an average knowledge of health, to believe
that the sick or injured person requires urgent or unscheduled medical care.
         b.   The operation procedure shall include a method to address
emergency situations including, but not limited to, adverse reactions,
anaphylactic reactions, and accidental needle sticks.
         c.   The operation procedure shall include procedures to be used when
blood, plasma, serum or body fluids, such as semen, saliva, breast milk,
vaginal secretions and any fluid contaminated with blood, are exposed to:
mucous membranes, including eye, mouth or other mucous membranes; broken or
nonintact skin; abraded or irritated skin; or skin surfaces that are otherwise
compromised.
         d.   The operation procedure shall describe methods for obtaining
appropriate medical care in the event of such an exposure and designate
personnel to be notified in the event of an emergency.
         e.   The operation procedure shall be maintained in the establishment
in a location accessible to all employees, and the operator shall train all
employees in the maintenance and implementation of the operation procedure.
   B.   Public Notification Requirements: All licensed microblade
establishments and artists shall provide the following public notification
requirements to all clients:
      1.   Written public education materials, provided by the department,
shall be offered and explained to all clients prior to receiving microblade
procedures.
      2.   Verbal and written instructions for the aftercare of the
microblading shall be provided to each client.
      3.   The written public education materials shall advise the client to
consult a physician or dentist as appropriate at the first sign of infection.
The written public education materials shall also contain the name, address and
phone number of the establishment. These documents shall be signed and dated by
both parties, with a copy given to the client, and the operator shall retain
the original with all other required records for a period of not less than
three (3) years. In addition, all establishments shall prominently display a
disclosure warning poster, provided by the department, which advises the public
of the potential health risks of microblading services.
      4.   The microblade establishment operator and microblade artist shall
report in writing to the department all infections or diseases resulting from a
microblade procedure that required medical attention. The written report shall
be sent to the Department within twenty four (24) hours after receiving a
report that medical attention was required. The report shall include:
      a.   The name, address and phone number of the affected individual;
      b.   The date of the microblade procedure;
      c.   Identification of the microblade artist who performed the service;
         d.   The name, address and certificate of registration number of the
microblade establishment involved;
      e.   The anatomical location, condition and description of the affected
site;
         f.   The name, address and phone number of the affected individual’s
healthcare provider;
         g.   The date that medical attention was sought; and
         h.   Any other information considered relevant to the situation.
   C.   Disclosure Of Pre-Existing Conditions: All microblade establishments
and artists shall request, in writing, that all clients disclose information
reasonably necessary to ensure proper healing from a microblade procedure,
which shall include the disclosure of the following medical conditions:
   1.   Diabetes;
   2.   History of hemophilia (bleeding);
   3.   History of skin diseases, skin lesions or skin sensitivities to soaps,
disinfectants, etc.;
      4.   History of allergies or adverse reactions to pigments, dyes or other
skin sensitivities such as, but not limited to, latex;
      5.   History of epilepsy, seizures, fainting or narcolepsy;
      6.   Medications used, such as anticoagulants that thin the blood and/or
interfere with blood clotting;
      7.   Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV);
      8.   Hepatitis; and
      9.   Any other information that would aid a body art establishment and
body artists in evaluating a client’s body art healing process.
   D.   Operational Safety And Sanitation Requirements: All microblade
establishments and artists shall comply with the following operational safety
and sanitation requirements:
      1.   All walls, floors and procedure surfaces of an establishment shall
be smooth, free of open holes and cracks, and washable. Walls, floors and
ceilings shall be in good repair and maintained in a clean condition. All
procedure surfaces, including client chair/benches, shall be of such
construction as to be easily cleaned and disinfected after each client. All
procedure surfaces shall be cleaned and disinfected after each procedure. The
body art establishment shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at
all times.
      2.   The establishment shall be completely separated by solid partitions
or by walls extending from floor to ceiling from any room used for human
habitation, any food establishment or room where food is prepared, any hair
salon, or any other such activity that may cause potential contamination of
work surfaces.
      3.   Effective measures shall be taken by the operator, manager, and
microblade artist to protect against the presence of insects, vermin and
rodents in the establishment. Exterior doors shall be self-closing and tight
fitting. If windows open, they shall have tightfitting screens.
      4.   The establishment shall have an area that may be screened from
public view for clients requesting privacy. Dividers, curtains or partitions,
at a minimum, shall be available to separate multiple work stations.
      5.   The establishment shall be well ventilated and provided with an
artificial light source equivalent to at least twenty (20) foot candles.
      6.   No animals of any kind shall be allowed in an establishment, except
service animals used by persons with disabilities. Fish aquariums may be
allowed in waiting rooms and nonprocedural areas.
      7.   A separate hand washing sink shall be readily accessible to the
microblade artists within the establishment. The hand sink shall be supplied
with liquid soap and disposable paper towels. One hand sink shall serve no more
than six (6) stations.
      8.   The establishment shall have a minimum of one hand washing sink,
excluding any service sinks, and one toilet facility. The toilet facility shall
be equipped with a hand washing sink, as well as liquid soap and paper towels
in dispensers. Toilet facilities shall have tightfitting, self-closing doors.
Such doors shall not be left open except during cleaning or maintenance. A
supply of toilet tissue shall be provided at each toilet at all times. Toilet
facilities shall also be equipped with mechanical ventilation to the outside
air.
      9.   At least one covered waste receptacle shall be provided at each work
station, lavatory facility, and toilet facility. Receptacles in the work
station shall be emptied daily, and solid waste shall be removed from the
premises at least weekly. All refuse containers shall be cleanable and kept
clean. Waste receptacles shall be kept uncovered during use and covered while
not in use.
      10.   All instruments and supplies shall be stored in clean, dry, covered
containers. The dirty contaminated equipment, including the autoclave and
ultrasonic units, along with cleaning supplies and cleaning equipment, shall be
stored in an area separate from the procedure area. This area shall not be
publicly accessible.
      11.   If reusable cloth items are used, they shall be mechanically washed
with detergent and dried after each use. The cloth items shall be stored in a
dry, clean environment until used.
      12.   The operator shall hire and retain microblade artists whom the
operator has determined possess proficiency and knowledge of the following
subjects, and the microblade artist shall demonstrate proficiency and knowledge
of the following subjects:
      a.   Anatomy;
         b.   Infectious disease control, including waste disposal, handwashing
techniques, sterilization equipment operation and methods, and sanitization/
disinfection/sterilization methods and techniques; and
      c.   Skin diseases, disorders and conditions (including diabetes).
      13.   The microblade artist shall maintain a high degree of personal
cleanliness, conform to good hygienic practices, and wear clean clothes when
performing microblade procedures. Before performing body art procedures,
microblade artists shall thoroughly wash their hands for a minimum of twenty
(20) seconds in tempered running water with liquid soap, then rinse hands and
dry with disposable paper towels. This shall be done as often as necessary to
remove contaminants.
      14.   In performing microblade procedures, the microblade artist shall
wear single-use, medical grade gloves. Gloves shall be changed if they become
contaminated by contact with any nonclean surfaces or objects or by contact
with a third person. The gloves shall be discarded, at a minimum, after the
completion of each procedure on an individual client, and hands shall be washed
before the next pair of gloves is donned. Under no circumstances shall a single
pair of gloves be used on more than one person. The use of single-use, medical
grade gloves does not preclude or substitute for hand washing procedures as
part of a good personal hygiene program.
      15.   If, while performing a microblade procedure, the microblade
artist's glove is pierced, torn or otherwise compromised, the procedures in
subsections D13 and 14 above shall be repeated immediately. The contaminated
gloves shall be immediately discarded, and the hands washed thoroughly before a
fresh pair of gloves is applied. Any item or instrument used for microblading
that is contaminated during the procedure shall be replaced immediately with a
new disposable item or a new sterilized instrument or item before the procedure
resumes.
      16.   Regulated waste that may release liquid blood or body fluids when
compressed, or may release dried blood or body fluids when handled shall be
placed in an approved bag marked with the international biohazard symbol. The
regulated waste shall then be disposed of in compliance with 29 CFR 1910.1030.
Sharps ready for disposal shall be disposed of in approved sharps disposal
containers. Storage of regulated waste on site shall comply with the
regulations in 29 CFR 1910.1030, and storage of regulated waste awaiting pick
up shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
      17.   Waste that does not release liquid blood or body fluids when
compressed or does not release dried blood or body fluids when handled may be
placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of through normal disposal methods.
      18.   Any skin or mucosal surface that is to receive a microblade
procedure shall be free of rash, irritation or any visible infection.
      19.   Before a microblade procedure is performed, the immediate skin area
and the areas of skin surrounding the location of the microblade procedure
shall be washed with liquid soap and water or a skin antiseptic. If shaving is
necessary, single-use, disposable razors shall be used. Following shaving, the
skin and surrounding area shall be washed with liquid soap and water or a skin
antiseptic. The single-use, disposable razor and washing pad shall be discarded
after a single use.
      20.   If bleeding occurs, all products used to check the flow of blood or
to absorb blood shall be single use and shall be disposed of immediately after
use in appropriate covered containers.
      21.   All nondisposable instruments used for microblading shall be
cleaned after each use by scrubbing with an appropriate soap or disinfectant
solution and hot water or by following the manufacturer’s instructions to
remove blood and tissue residue and shall then be placed in an ultrasonic unit
operated in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
      22.   After cleaning, all nondisposable instruments used for microblading
shall be packed individually in sterilization packaging and subsequently
sterilized. All sterilization packaging shall contain either a sterilization
indicator or internal temperature indicator. Sterilization packaging shall be
dated with an expiration date not to exceed six (6) months or in accordance
with manufacturer’s instructions. If sterilization packaging is compromised or
expired, the instrument shall be removed, repackaged and resterilized.
      23.   All cleaned, nondisposable instruments used for microblading shall
be sterilized in an autoclave that meets the criteria specified in this
article. The autoclave shall be used, cleaned and maintained according to
manufacturer’s instruction. The operator shall retain on site a copy of the
manufacturer’s recommended procedures for the operation of the sterilization
unit and a daily temperature log for each day's use. If the microblade
establishment uses only single-use, disposable instruments and products and
uses sterile, single-use needles and tubes, an autoclave shall not be required.
      24.   After sterilization, the instruments used for microblading
procedures shall be stored in a dry, clean cabinet or tightly covered container
reserved for the storage of such instruments.
      25.   All instruments shall remain stored in sterile packages until just
prior to the performance of a microblading procedure. When assembling
instruments used for microblading procedures, the operator or artist shall wear
single-use, disposable, medical grade gloves and use aseptic techniques to
ensure that the instruments and the gloves are not contaminated.
      26.   All inks, pigments, needles and equipment shall be specifically
manufactured for performing microblading procedures and shall be used according
to manufacturer’s instructions. Single-use needles, specifically manufactured
for microblading, may be purchased and used to construct a needle bar by the
microblade artist.
      27.   Pigment shall be reconstituted using only distilled or sterile
water or a glycerin product.
      28.   Immediately before the microblading is applied, the quantity of the
ink to be used shall be transferred from the ink bottle and placed into single-
use containers. Upon completion of the microblading, these single-use
containers and their contents shall be discarded.
      29.   Each licensee shall demonstrate, by monthly spore destruction
tests, that the autoclave used is capable of attaining sterilization. These
tests shall be verified through an independent laboratory. Test records shall
be retained on site by the operator for a period of one year.
      30.   Single-use items shall not be used on more than one client for any
reason. After use, all single-use needles, razors and other sharps shall be
immediately disposed of in approved sharps disposal containers.
      31.   All products applied to the skin, including body art stencils,
shall be single-use and disposable. Petroleum jellies, soaps and other products
used in the application of stencils shall be dispensed and applied to the area
to be microbladed with gauze or in a manner to prevent contamination of the
original container and its contents.
      32.   Single-use items must be stored in a clean, covered location, in a
manner to prevent any contamination.
      33.   All bandages and surgical dressings used in connection with the
microblading of a person shall be sterile and single-use.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-8: CONDITIONS OF AND RESTRICTIONS ON BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A.   Supervision: The microblade establishment shall have the premises
supervised at all times when open for business by a manager who is on the site
of the licensed premises. The microblade establishment shall have at least one
person who has a valid microblade artist license on the premises at all times
while the establishment is open for business. The microblade establishment
licensee, operator or manager shall personally supervise the business, and
shall not violate, or permit others to violate, any applicable provisions of
this article. The violation of any provisions by any agent or employee of the
licensee shall constitute a violation of the licensee.
   B.   Separate License For Each Premises: Licenses apply only to the premises
described in the application and in the license issued thereon, and only one
location shall be so described in each license.
   C.   Nontransferability Of License: A license shall be a purely personal
privilege, effective for a period not to exceed one year after issuance unless
sooner revoked as provided in this article, and shall not constitute property.
No license is transferable, separate or divisible, and such authority as a
license confers shall be conferred only on the licensee named therein.
   D.   Books And Records: The microblade establishment shall at all times keep
an appointment book in which the name of each and every patron shall be
entered, together with the time, date and place of service, and the service
provided. Such books and records shall be maintained by the licensee, manager,
or operator for a period of at least three (3) years, and shall be available at
all times for inspection by the Director of the Health and Licensing Department
or an authorized representative.
   E.   Right Of Entry For Inspections: The Director of the Health and
Licensing Department, any duly authorized public safety officer, or a health
inspector of the Village shall have the right to enter the licensed premises
for the purpose of inspecting the premises or operations for compliance with
this article. No licensee, operator, manager, or employee shall deny, impede,
frustrate, limit, prevent, refuse or restrain such an inspection.
   F.   Provisions Not Exclusive: The express enumeration of the specified
conditions and restrictions under this section shall not be construed to limit,
exclude or preclude any other conditions and restrictions required under this
article.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be permitted to
undergo a microblading procedure unless the person’s parent or legal guardian
signs a written consent form in the presence of an operator, manager or
microblade artist. The consent form shall indicate that the parent or legal
guardian has read and understood the disclosure warning statement and shall be
maintained by the licensee and exhibited upon demand of the Village;
   B.   No establishment shall permit or allow a microblade procedure to be
performed upon any person who appears to be under the influence of drugs or
alcohol or who appears to be incoherent or impaired for any reason;
   C.   No microblade artist affected with infected wounds, open sores, boils,
abrasions, keloids, weeping dermatological lesions or acute respiratory
infection shall work in any area of a body art establishment in which he comes
in contact with members of the public seeking a microblade procedure or with
the equipment, supplies, instruments or working surfaces of the establishment;
   D.   No establishment shall permit the performance of any microblade
procedure which utilizes the implantation of any object(s), such as ball
bearings or beads, under the skin;
   E.   No establishment shall permit or allow smoking, eating or drinking in
the area of the premises in which microblading procedures are performed. No
alcoholic beverages shall be permitted upon the premises of the establishment
during business hours;
F.    No microblade artist may perform any microblade procedure while under the
influence or impairment of alcohol or drugs;
   G.   No microblade procedure shall be performed on skin surfaces where
sunburn, rash, acne, infection, open lesions, or other questionable skin
lesions exist without medical clearance in the form of a written and signed
statement by a physician; and
   H.   The express enumeration of the specified prohibited acts and conditions
under this section shall not be construed to limit, exclude or preclude any
other prohibited acts and conditions required under this article.
   I.   No person, firm or corporation shall sell, give, dispense, provide or
keep, or cause to be sold, given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic
beverage, marijuana or opioids on the premises of any establishment.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Any license issued under this article may be suspended or revoked by
the Village President during the life of such license for the violation by the
licensee of any provision of this article or other ordinance of the Village
relating to the license, the subject of the license, or the premises occupied.
Such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
   B.   If at any time after the granting of the license, a licensee shall have
violated any applicable provisions of Federal or State law, or provisions of
this article or other ordinances of the Village in the conduct of his business,
the Village President may suspend or revoke the license therefor.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Village
President may suspend or revoke the license of any licensed operator who
refuses to permit a public safety officer or other employee of the Village who
is authorized to make an inspection of the licensed premises, or who interferes
with the public safety officer or other employee while in the performance of
his duty in making such inspection.
   D.   If a license is revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted to
any person for a period of one year after the date of the revocation that will
allow a microblade establishment to be operated on the premises described in
the revoked license unless the revocation order has been vacated.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Department shall have the duty to enforce the provisions of this
article.
   B.   The Department, Village Prosecutor or Village Attorney shall have the
duty to prosecute violations of any provisions of this article in an
administrative hearing before the Village Administrative Hearing Officer or
Village President. The licensee shall be given due notice of the administrative
hearing and an opportunity to contest any alleged violation or penalty. The
licensee's ignorance of the violation shall not be considered as evidence in
mitigation of any penalty.
   C.   Additionally, if the Department reasonably suspects that a communicable
disease is or may be transmitted by an employee or body artist by use of
unapproved or malfunctioning equipment or by unsanitary or unsafe conditions
and practices or other imminent health hazard that may adversely affect the
health of the public, the department shall either issue a written order
excluding any or all employees or body artists from the body art establishment
who are responsible, or appear to be responsible, for the transmission of a
communicable disease until the department determines there is no further risk
to public health, or the department shall issue a written order to immediately
suspend the license of the body art establishment or body artist until the
department determines that there is no further risk to the public health. Such
written orders shall state the cause for the action and be provided to the
operator, manager or microblade artist.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018).
4-24B-12: VIOLATIONS A NUISANCE:
Any business or building used as a microblade establishment in violation of
this article, together with all fixtures and other property used in violation
of this article, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance which may be
abated by injunctive relief by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
4-24B-13: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any provisions of
this article shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. The license of any person found guilty of violating any
provision of this article may be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 2018-3-14L, 3-14-2018)
CHAPTER 25: DRY CLEANING
ARTICLE A: DRY CLEANING
Section
4-25A-1:   Definitions
4-25A-2:   License Required
4-25A-3:   Application For License
4-25A-4:   Location
4-25A-5:   Building And Equipment Requirements
4-25A-6:   Other Use Of Premises
4-25A-7:   Separation Of Cleaned And Uncleaned Articles
Cross-reference:
   See subsection 3-10-1B of this Code, entry reading “cleaning and dyeing”,
for license fee
4-25A-1: DEFINITIONS:
DRY CLEANER OR PERSON ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS OF DRY CLEANING: Any person
keeping or using more than two (2) quarts of any solvent other than water
including, but not by way of limitation, solvents of the petroleum distillate
type, coal tar distillate type or chlorinated hydrocarbon type for the purpose
of cleaning, dyeing or renovating wearing apparel, fabrics, textiles, drapes,
curtains, rugs, blankets, furs, leather, or other material for profit or reward
including such establishments operating on a self-service coin-operated basis.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of dry cleaning,
without first obtaining a license for each dry cleaning establishment to be
conducted by such person.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   An application for the license shall be made in conformity with the
general requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses. A
separate application shall be made for each dry cleaning establishment engaged
in by the applicant wherever located within the Village.
   B.   At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall also file an
affidavit specifying the type of cleaning solvent to be used and stating that
no cleaning solvent other than that specified in the affidavit will be
employed. If at any time subsequent to the filing of the application and
affidavit, the applicant desires to change the type of solvent specified in the
affidavit, he may do so only upon the filing of an amendment to his application
and affidavit describing the proposed change; provided, that compliance is made
with all ordinances relating to the use of such solvent.
   C.   Every application shall be approved by the Building and Code
Enforcement Department and the Public Safety Department as to compliance of the
premises named therein with the building provisions and fire regulations of
this Code, respectively, before a license shall be issued.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25A-4: LOCATION:
No dry cleaning establishment in which a flammable solvent having a flashpoint
below one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (closed cup tester) is used
shall be located on any lot or plot of ground where any of the boundaries of
such lot or plot of ground are within one hundred feet (100') of the nearest
boundary of any lot or plot of ground used for a school, church, hospital, or
theater.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25A-5: BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every new building constructed for the purpose of dry cleaning shall be
built and equipped as required by the building provisions of this Code.
   B.   Every dry cleaning establishment shall be equipped with an asbestos
blanket of a size not less than six feet by nine feet (6' x 9'). Said blanket
shall be placed inside of dry cleaning rooms near the door thereof and in such
position that it shall be accessible for use in case of fire.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25A-6: OTHER USE OF PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate the business of dry
cleaning in which a flammable solvent having a flashpoint below one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (closed cup tester) is used in any building,
any portion of which is used or intended to be used for other than dry cleaning
or dyeing purposes.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25A-7: SEPARATION OF CLEANED AND UNCLEANED ARTICLES:
Every person engaged in the business of dry cleaning shall provide proper
facilities and equipment for the separate handling of cleaned and soiled
articles, and no clean article shall be allowed to come in contact with any
uncleaned or soiled article of any kind at any time.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE B: LAUNDRIES
Section
4-25B-1:   Laundries
4-25B-1-1:   Definition
4-25B-1-2:   License Required
4-25B-1-3:   Application For License
4-25B-1-4:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-25B-1-5:   Sanitary Conditions
4-25B-1-6:   Establishments Separate From Living Facilities; Seating Required
4-25B-1-7:   Operation Of Laundries
4-25B-1-8:   Floor Construction
4-25B-1-9:   Locker Room
4-25B-1-10:   New Laundries
4-25B-2:   Self-Service, Coin-Operated Laundry Establishments
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fees
4-25B-1: LAUNDRIES:
4-25B-1-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this article, the word LAUNDRY shall have the following meanings:
   A.   Anyplace, building, structure, room, or establishment, or portion
thereof, which is used for the purpose of washing, drying, starching, or
ironing shirts, dresses, underwear, collars, cuffs, or other wearing apparel,
table, bed or other household linens, towels, curtains, draperies or other
washable fabrics, such work being done for the general public.
   B.   Any towel or linen supply laundry maintained or operated for the
purpose of washing, drying, starching or ironing towels, aprons, napkins, table
linens, washable clothing, or other similar articles, the property of such
laundry, but rented or loaned for a consideration to patrons or customers of
the laundry.
   C.   Any private laundry maintained or operated in connection with any
hotel, restaurant, or public institution, except a hospital or charitable
institution where no charge is made for laundry services.
   D.   Any establishment wherein washing machine units are available for use
by the general public upon the deposit of a coin or the payment of a fee to the
operator of such establishment or his agent.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the laundry business without first obtaining a
license so to do.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for the license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses. In addition,
the applicant shall state the maximum number of persons to be employed therein.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The Building and Code Enforcement Department and Health and Licensing
Department shall cause an investigation to be made of the premises named and
described in the application for the purpose of determining whether there is
full compliance with the sanitary conditions and other requirements of this
article.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-5: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Every room or place used as a laundry, or for the storage of
unlaundered or laundered fabrics in connection therewith, shall at all times be
kept in good repair and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition as to
floors, walls, ceilings, windows, woodwork, machinery, utensils, and fixtures,
and every such room or place shall be kept free from rats, mice, vermin, and
all matters of an infectious or contagious nature.
   B.   No person who has tuberculosis, any acute or active venereal disease,
any communicable or loathsome skin disease, or any other communicable disease
shall work in any laundry, and no owner, proprietor, manager, or person in
charge of any laundry shall knowingly require, permit or suffer any such person
to be employed therein.
   C.   No wallpaper shall be applied upon the walls or ceilings of any room
used for laundry purposes.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-6: ESTABLISHMENTS SEPARATE FROM LIVING FACILITIES; SEATING REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall be permitted to sleep in any laundry, nor shall any
sleeping room or living room be in direct communication with any laundry.
   B.   No laundered or unlaundered article belonging to the trade of any
laundry shall be stored or kept in any room which is used for living purposes.
   C.   Proper seating facilities shall be provided for each employee who, in
the discharge of his duties, is required to remain stationed at any one place
for any extended period of time.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-7: OPERATION OF LAUNDRIES:
   A.   Emissions: Vapors, smoke, or odors emanating from any laundry shall not
be permitted at any time to become a nuisance to any portion of the premises in
which the laundry is located, nor to any adjoining or nearby premises.
   B.   Excessive Heat: Every machine or mechanical device in any laundry that
is operated by an employee, in case it emits or sends off excessive heat, shall
be equipped with proper heat defectors, hood and exhaust, or other apparatus
that will carry the heat from the room or place in which the same is located.
   C.   Separation Of Laundered And Unlaundered Articles. Every person
conducting or operating any laundry shall be required to provide proper
facilities and equipment for the separate handling of clean and soiled
articles, and no clean or laundered articles shall be allowed to come in
contact with any unlaundered or soiled articles of any kind at any time.
   D.   Sterilization Of Articles: No person conducting or operating any
laundry in which wearing apparel, household linens, towels, bedding, or any
other fabrics are received and treated through the process of washing, shall
remove or cause to be removed from the premises any laundered article, until
the same has been thoroughly sterilized by keeping it in the washing machine,
vat, or other vessel provided for that purpose and the water therein has been
brought to a boiling temperature or maintained at a temperature of one hundred
seventy five degrees Fahrenheit (175°F) for at least twenty (20) minutes; or by
subjecting it to live steam under pressure; or by keeping it in a drying house
or drying tumbler, in which the temperature is not less than two hundred
fifteen degrees Fahrenheit (215°F) for a period of not less than fifteen (15)
minutes; or by passing it through any ironing machine where the ironing surface
is at a temperature of not less than two hundred twenty five degrees Fahrenheit
(225°F); except in the case of silks and woolens or other fabrics which would
be injured by the foregoing processes, in which event, the same shall be
treated with soap, bleach, or such other standard disinfectant solutions as
shall be approved by the Health and Licensing Department.
   E.   Sprinkling Restrictions: No owner, proprietor, or manager of any
laundry, or any person employed therein, shall be permitted to sprinkle any
fabric with water or other liquid substance ejected from the mouth or blown out
of any other device communicating or coming in contact with the mouth of such
person.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-8: FLOOR CONSTRUCTION:
The floor of every laundry and every room or place in connection therewith,
except the room or rooms in which apparel, household, linens, bedding, towels,
or other fabrics are washed, shall be constructed of hardwood or any impervious
material. The floor of the room or rooms in which wearing apparel, household
linens, bedding, towels, or other fabrics are washed shall be constructed of
hardwood with tight joints, concrete, cement, tile or stone laid in cement, or
other impervious material, and shall be watertight and properly drained to the
public sewer. The angles where the floor and wall join shall likewise be
watertight. The floor of the washroom shall be of concrete, cement, tile or
stone laid in cement, or other impervious material, and shall be watertight and
properly drained to the public sewer.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-9: LOCKER ROOM:
A separate room, or sufficient space in a room, which is entirely separate from
the room or rooms in which wearing apparel, linen, or other fabrics are washed
or dried, and which can be maintained in a dry and sanitary condition, shall be
provided and maintained in every laundry as a cloakroom or locker room in which
employees may keep their wraps or outer clothing, and if the management of any
laundry shall require the persons employed therein to wear any special or
designated garment during the hours of employment, such space or room shall be
so arranged that employees may make such changes as may be necessary with a
reasonable degree of privacy.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-1-10: NEW LAUNDRIES:
Any person establishing a new laundry shall be required to submit to the Health
and Licensing Department, for its approval, a complete set of plans and
specifications of the building in which any new laundry is to be located, also
a complete diagram of the floor plan of each room to be occupied by the new
laundry, correctly showing the arrangement or setting of all machinery and
equipment to be installed therein.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-25B-2: SELF-SERVICE, COIN-OPERATED LAUNDRY ESTABLISHMENTS:
Any person establishing a laundry of the coin-operated, self-service type shall
be required to submit to the Director of Building and Code Enforcement, for his
approval, a complete set of plans and specifications and a complete diagram of
the floor plan of each room to be occupied by such establishment, showing the
arrangement or setting of all machinery and equipment to be installed therein.
Each plan shall be explicit and complete.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 26: DAY NURSERIES
Section
4-26-1:   Definition
4-26-2:   License Required
4-26-3:   Application For License
4-26-4:   Rules, Regulations And Minimum Standards
4-26-5:   Ill Or Injured Children
4-26-6:   Recordkeeping
4-26-7:   Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-26-1:    DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term DAY NURSERY shall mean any institution or
place in which are received three (3) or more children, not of common
parentage, for nursing or care apart from their parents or guardian, between
the ages of two (2) years and fourteen (14) years, for care during part or all
of a day but not later than nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. The term is further
construed to include similar units operating under any other name whatsoever
with or without stated educational purpose.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-26-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person other than the regularly constituted
authorities of the United States, the State, the County, or the Village to
conduct or operate any day nursery within the Village without first obtaining a
license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-26-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license to conduct and operate a day nursery shall be made in
conformity with the general requirements of this title relating to applications
for licenses. The application shall be under oath and shall contain:
   A.   The location of the day nursery for which a license is sought.
   B.   The number of children to be cared for.
   C.   The name and address of the applicant, if an individual; and if a firm,
partnership, or association, of every member thereof; and in the case of a
corporation, the principal address of the corporation and names and addresses
of its officers.
   D.   The name of the person or persons under whose management or supervision
the day nursery will be conducted.
   E.   Such information relating to the number, experience and training of
employees of the day nursery and establishing the moral character of the
applicant and employees.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-26-4: RULES, REGULATIONS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS:
   A.   The premises and facilities used as a day nursery shall comply with the
building, zoning, fire and health provisions of this Code and the State of
Illinois “Minimum Standards for Licensed Day Care Centers”.
   B.   The day nursery shall comply with the program standards as set forth in
the State of Illinois “Minimum Standards for Licensed Day Care Centers”.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-26-5: ILL OR INJURED CHILDREN:
   A.   Each day nursery shall be provided with a room to be used for the
observation of an ill or injured child and suspect cases of contagious,
infectious or communicable diseases.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of every person conducting or operating
a day nursery to minimize the danger of transmission of communicable diseases
as set forth by the State of Illinois Department of Public Health Rules and
Regulations for the Control of Communicable Diseases.
   C.   It shall be the duty of every person conducting or operating a day
nursery to make a report to the Health and Licensing Department daily of all
cases and suspect cases of contagious and communicable diseases.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-26-6: RECORDKEEPING:
Each day nursery shall maintain individual records for each child and personnel
records for each employee. All records shall be open at all times to the
inspection of the Health and Licensing Department or its duly authorized
representative.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-26-7: INSPECTIONS:
Every day nursery shall be open at all reasonable times to inspection by the
Health and Licensing Department, the Building and Code Enforcement Department
and the Department of Public Safety, as often as is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 27: FUNERAL HOMES AND UNDERTAKING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
4-27-1:   License Required; Restrictions
4-27-2:   Application For License
4-27-3:   Qualifications Of Applicant
4-27-4:   Insurances Required; Bond In Lieu
4-27-5:   Soliciting Business Prohibited
4-27-6:   Undertaking Rooms
4-27-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual to prepare a dead body for
burial or cremation in or to conduct, manage, or be in charge of, any room,
store, or place in any way advertised or held out to the public by card, sign
solicitation or otherwise as a funeral home or undertaking establishment
without first obtaining a license for such room, store or place.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
   B.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall entitle the licensee
to operate a funeral home or undertaking establishment only at and from the
store, room, or place designated in the license, and if the applicant for the
license shall desire to engage in the business of undertaking at more than one
store, room or place in the Village, he shall be permitted to do so only upon
the payment of a license fee as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule,
subsection 3-10-1B of this Code, for each such store, room, or place.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   In conducting any business under a license herein provided, no licensee
shall use or join in using, as part of or in connection with the name under
which said business is conducted, the name of any person who is not licensed as
an undertaker and actually engaged in the business.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-27-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license under this chapter shall state the applicant’s name
and residence address, that a certificate of registration as a funeral director
has been issued to him by the State of Illinois and the number of his State
registration certificate, and the location of the room, store or place where he
intends to engage in the business of undertaking.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-27-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
Every applicant shall also furnish to the Health and Licensing Department
evidence that he has successfully completed a course of instruction in a
professional school or college teaching the practice of undertaking, which is
recognized and approved by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; that he has knowledge of, and is familiar with, the
State laws, the provisions of this Code, and the rules and regulations of the
Health and Licensing Department governing and concerning the removal,
preparation, and burial or cremation of the dead; and that the applicant has a
practical knowledge of approved and sanitary methods of caring for dead bodies
and preparing the same for burial or cremation, including the disinfection of
dead bodies.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
4-27-4: INSURANCES REQUIRED; BOND IN LIEU:
   A.   Every applicant for a license under this chapter shall carry public
liability and property damage insurance and workers' compensation insurance for
employees with responsible insurers, authorized to transact insurance business
in the State of Illinois, to secure payment of any loss or damage resulting
from an occurrence arising out of or caused by the operation of the business
herein licensed. Said insurance policy or contract shall be for an amount as
required by the Village. The insurance shall provide for the payment and
satisfaction of any final judgment rendered against the owner or operator of a
licensed business, and that suit may be brought in any court of competent
jurisdiction upon such policy by any person having claims arising from the
operation of the business.
   B.   In lieu of an insurance policy or contract, a surety bond or bonds with
a corporate surety or sureties authorized to do business under the laws of the
State of Illinois may be accepted for all or any part of such insurance;
provided, that each bond shall be conditioned for the payment and satisfaction
of any final judgment, in conformity with the provisions of an insurance policy
as required by this section.
(Ord. 76-11-3A, 11-3-1976)
4-27-5: SOLICITING BUSINESS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person, including any licensee, agent or employee, or other person
acting on behalf of a licensee with his knowledge or consent, express or
implied, shall, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any sum or
money or other valuable consideration for the securing of business or to obtain
any deceased human body or authority to dispose of any deceased human body;
provided, that this subsection shall not be deemed to prohibit general
advertising.
   B.   No licensee or agent or employee of a licensee or other person acting
for or on behalf of a licensee with his knowledge or consent, express or
implied, shall solicit a dead human body while death is impending or after
death; provided, that this subsection shall not be deemed to prohibit general
advertising.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person not a licensee to solicit for
money, fee, commission or other remuneration, directly or indirectly, in any
manner whatsoever, a dead human body for any licensee.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-27-6: UNDERTAKING ROOMS:
No location, store or place shall be licensed as an undertaking establishment
where any other occupation is carried on, unless the establishment, store, or
place used for the undertaking business shall be provided with a compartment or
room completely shut off or capable of being completely shut off from the other
parts of the establishment, store, or place. The compartment or room shall have
free outside ventilation and light, and its floor shall be constructed of or
covered with a nonabsorbent material and shall be connected with a sewer by an
approved sanitary drain.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 28: MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL BUSINESSES
ARTICLE A: FLORISTS
Section
4-28A-1:   Definition
4-28A-2:   License Required
4-28A-3:   Application For License
4-28A-4:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-28A-5:   Insurances Required; Bond In Lieu
4-28A-6:   Sanitation Regulations
4-28A-7:   Storage Of Hazardous Materials
4-28A-8:   Off Premises Sales
4-28A-9:   Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-28A-1   DEFINITION:
When used in this article, the term RETAIL FLORIST shall mean any person or
persons regularly engaged in the conduct of an established business for
selling, offering for sale, or keeping with the intention of selling at retail
cut flowers, bridal bouquets, funeral designs, or growing plants from a fixed
and permanent business location.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of retail florist or the
business of wholesale florist without first having procured a license therefor.
   B.   Every person who shall engage in both a retail florist business and a
wholesale florist business shall procure a separate license for each. A
separate license shall be required for each location, place or premises where
the person is located to engage in business, and in the case of an itinerant
wholesale florist, a separate license shall be required for each vehicle from
which flowers, bouquets, funeral floral designs and growing plants are sold.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   An application for any license under this article shall be made in
conformity with the general requirements of this title relating to applications
for licenses.
   B.   Every application for license as an itinerant wholesale florist shall
also contain the address of the applicant.
   C.   The application shall indicate the nature of the business in which the
applicant desires to engage.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28A-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Every application for a license to engage in business at a fixed location shall
be investigated by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement to determine
whether there is compliance with the applicable provisions of this Code, and
the approval of the officer shall be noted thereon before the license is
issued.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28A-5: INSURANCES REQUIRED; BOND IN LIEU:
   A.   Every applicant for a license under this article shall carry public
liability and property damage insurance and workers' compensation insurance for
employees with responsible insurers, authorized to transact insurance business
in the State of Illinois, to secure payment of any loss or damage resulting
from an occurrence arising out of or caused by the operation of the business
herein licensed. The insurance policy or contract shall be in an amount as
required by the Village. The insurance shall provide for the payment and
satisfaction of any final judgment rendered against the owner or operator of a
licensed business, and that suit may be brought in any court of competent
jurisdiction upon such policy by any person having claims arising from the
operation of the business.
   B.   In lieu of an insurance policy or contract, a surety bond or bonds with
a corporate surety or sureties authorized to do business under the laws of the
State of Illinois may be accepted for all or any part of such insurance;
provided, that each bond shall be conditioned for the payment and satisfaction
of any final judgment, in conformity with the provisions of an insurance policy
as required by this section.
(Ord. 76-11-3A, 11-3-1976)
4-28A-6: SANITATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Every location, place or establishment where the business of a florist
is conducted, managed or carried on shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and free from vermin.
   B.   No decayed, decaying, unwholesome, contaminated or diseased flowers or
plants shall be allowed to remain in or about the establishment.
   C.   No licensee shall sell or offer for sale any flowers or plants, the
sale of which is restricted by any Federal or State law.
   D.   Adequate and convenient washing and toilet facilities shall be
provided.
   E.   Every itinerant wholesale florist shall thoroughly clean each vehicle
operated by him in his business once daily and dispose of all decaying flowers
or plants in a suitable sanitary manner, subject to the approval of the Health
and Licensing Department.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28A-7: STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
All pesticides and any other material which may be hazardous to employees or
the public shall be stored in florist establishments in a safe manner and shall
be plainly identified.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28A-8: OFF PREMISES SALES:
Except in the case of an itinerant wholesale florist, no license shall be
issued except for a fixed location. The sale of flowers, plants or floral
bouquets or designs on the public way or at places other than those at which
the licensee is licensed is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28A-9: INSPECTIONS:
The Director of Building and Code Enforcement may inspect at any reasonable
time all florist establishments to determine whether there is compliance with
the requirements of this Code relating to health, sanitation, and safety
applicable thereto.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE B: HARDWARE STORES AND PAINT STORES
Section
4-28B-1:   Hardware Stores
4-28B-1-1:   Definition; Exemptions
4-28B-1-2:   License Required
4-28B-1-3:   Application For License
4-28B-1-4:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-28B-1-5:   May Provide A Paint Store With No License
4-28B-2:   Paint Stores
4-28B-2-1:   Definition; Exemptions
4-28B-2-2:   License Required
4-28B-2-3:   Application For License; Approval
4-28B-2-4:   Investigation Of Applicant
4-28B-3:   Sanitation Requirements
4-28B-4:   Ventilation
4-28B-5:   Inspections
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-28B-1: HARDWARE STORES:
4-28B-1-1: DEFINITION; EXEMPTIONS:
When used in this section 4-28B-1, the term HARDWARE STORE shall mean any
building, room, enclosure, premises, place, or establishment in the Village
operated, maintained, or conducted for the sale or offering for sale at retail
of any of the following articles: hardware; tinware; aluminum ware; enamelware;
cutlery; tools; implements; apparatus; machinery; plumbing; engineers’,
janitors’, blacksmiths’, contractors’, or electrical supplies; gas, plumbing,
or electrical fixtures; other articles or wares made largely of metals;
kerosene; rifles, shotguns, and loaded shot shells or cartridges where not more
than twenty five thousand (25,000) are kept on hand at one time; provided,
however, that dealers or establishments or parts of establishments of a similar
nature specifically defined and licensed by other parts of this Code shall be
exempt from the provisions licensing hardware stores.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a hardware store without first having
obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a hardware store license shall be made in conformity with
the general requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses.
The applicant shall also describe the premises to be licensed and state the
location of the same.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-1-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   The Director of Building and Code Enforcement shall cause an
investigation to be made of the premises named and described in the application
for a license to conduct a hardware store for the purpose of determining the
fitness and suitability of the premises for such business from a sanitary
standpoint, and determining whether or not the premises complies with all the
provisions of this Code and laws of the State regulating health, safety, and
sanitation so as to safeguard properly the lives and health of the employees
engaged therein.
   B.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall investigate the premises to
determine whether there has been compliance with the fire regulations of this
Code applicable thereto.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-1-5: MAY PROVIDE A PAINT STORE WITH NO LICENSE:
Every licensed hardware store shall have the privilege of engaging in the
business of a paint store within the same building, room enclosure, premises,
place, establishment, or part of an establishment without the necessity of
obtaining an additional license.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-2: PAINT STORES:
4-28B-2-1: DEFINITION; EXEMPTIONS:
When used in this section 4-28B-2, the term PAINT STORE shall mean any
building, room, enclosure, premises, place, establishment, or part of an
establishment in the Village operated, or conducted for the sale or offering
for sale at retail, of any paints, dry colors, wallpaper, varnishes, calcimine,
raw or boiled linseed oil, turpentine, dryer, benzine, naphtha, painters'
tools, supplies and equipment; provided, that dealers or establishments or
parts of establishments of a similar nature specifically defined and licensed
by other provisions of this Code shall be exempt from the provisions of that
part of this section.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of a paint store without first having
obtained a license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPROVAL:
An application for a paint store license shall be made in conformity with the
general requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses. The
applicant shall also describe the premises as well as the location of the same.
Every application shall be approved by the Superintendent of Public Safety and
by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement before a license shall be
issued.
(Ord. 75-12-I7D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-2-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   The Director of Building and Code Enforcement shall cause an
investigation to be made of the premises named and described in the application
for a license to conduct a paint store for the purpose of determining the
fitness and suitability of the premises for such business from a sanitary
standpoint, and of determining whether or not the premises complies with all
the provisions of this Code and laws of the State regulating health, safety,
and sanitation so as to safeguard properly the lives and health of the
employees engaged therein.
   B.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall also cause an investigation
to be made of the premises for the purpose of determining whether the same
complies with all of the fire regulations of this Code applicable thereto.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-3: SANITATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every place wherein any business licensed under this article is carried
on shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   B.   All necessary measures shall be taken to safeguard the lives and health
of all persons employed in such establishments, and adequate and convenient
washing and toilet facilities shall be provided for the employees.
   C.   No person suffering from an active contagious or infectious disease
shall be employed in the business.
   D.   All articles kept for sale in the establishments shall be kept free
from vermin or any matter of a contagious or infectious nature.
   E.   All decomposed, fetid, or putrescent matter and all refuse, waste, and
sweepings shall he removed and disposed of at least once each day and in such a
manner as not to cause a nuisance.
   F.   All cleaning shall be done as far as possible outside of working hours,
but if done during working hours, it shall be done in such a manner as to avoid
the necessary raising of dust or noxious material.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-4: VENTILATION:
No owner, proprietor, manager or superintendent of any business licensed under
this article where one or more persons are employed shall cause, permit, or
allow the same, or any portion or apartment of any room within the same, to be
overcrowded or inadequate, faulty, or insufficient in respect to light,
ventilation, heat, and cleanliness; and fresh air shall be supplied by
ventilation in accordance with the building regulations of this Code. No part
of the air supply shall be taken from any cellar or basement.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-28B-5: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The Director of Building and Code Enforcement, in addition to making
the initial inspections provided herein, shall visit or cause to be visited all
such places of business licensed under this article as often as he shall deem
necessary, but at least once a year, to see that there is compliance with the
provisions of this article, and the Director shall have the authority to
require that arrangements be made as may be deemed necessary for the safety and
health of the employees pursuant to the terms of this Code and such laws as may
be in force concerning health and sanitary conditions.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every person licensed under this article to
comply with the fire regulations of this Code applicable thereto, and the
Superintendent of Public Safety shall periodically inspect each place of
business to determine whether there is compliance with the said regulations.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-197 5)
CHAPTER 29: INDUSTRIAL RELATED BUSINESSES
ARTICLE A: MACHINE SHOPS
Section
4-29A-1:   Definition
4-29A-2:   License Required
4-29A-3:   Application For License
4-29A-4:   Fire Prevention
4-29A-5:   Safety, Sanitation And Health Requirements
4-29A-6:   Prohibited Hours Of Operation; Nuisance Declared
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-29A-1: DEFINITION:
When used in this article, the term MACHINE SHOP shall mean a workshop in which
a machine shop business is conducted and in which machines are made or metal
parts thereof are repaired for the public, or in which parts of machines or
tools, implements, gears, dies, screws or other metal articles are cut, filed,
shaped, punched, stamped or repaired by means of a lathe or other machinery for
the public.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-29A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a machine shop business without first having obtained a
license therefor.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-29A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for a license under this article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this title relating to the issuance of
licenses.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-29A-4: FIRE PREVENTION:
Each person conducting a machine shop shall comply with the fire regulations of
this Code. It shall be the duty of the Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Fire
Suppression to inspect periodically each such premises to determine if the
person conducting the business is complying with such regulations.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-29A-5: SAFETY, SANITATION AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No building, structure or part thereof used for or in connected with
any machine shop shall be so used as to endanger the health or property of the
employees or of the public.
   B.   The owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or manager of any machine shop
shall cause all floors and other surface around or beneath any machine or
workbench to be kept in good order and repair and shall have suitable and
convenient sanitary receptacles for receiving waste and cloths used in and
about the machine shop for the purpose of cleaning machines or parts thereof or
which are intended for any other necessary use.
   C.   The owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or manager shall not permit any
steel cuttings or machine parts to accumulate on or about any machine or
workbench so that the same may become detrimental to the health or safety of
any person therein engaged.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-29A-6: PROHIBITED HOURS OF OPERATION; NUISANCE DECLARED:
No machine shop shall be operated between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in any block in which a majority of the
buildings on both sides of the street are used exclusively for residential
purposes, or within one hundred feet (100') of such block, and it shall be
within the power of the Director of the Health and Licensing, after reasonable
notice, to treat the operation during such hours as a public nuisance and to
abate the same.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 30: CURRENCY EXCHANGES
Section
4-30-1:   Definition
4-30-2:   License Required
4-30-3:   Application For License
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 B of this Code for license fee
4-30-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term CURRENCY EXCHANGE shall mean any person,
except banks incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois and national
banks organized pursuant to the laws of the United States, engaged in the
business of and providing facilities for cashing checks, drafts, money orders
and all other evidences of money acceptable to the currency exchange for a fee
or service charge or other consideration, or engaged in the business of selling
or issuing money orders under his or its name or any other money orders (other
than United States Post Office money orders, or Western Union money orders), or
engaged in both such businesses. Provided, however, that nothing herein shall
be held to apply to any person engaged in the business of transporting for hire
bullion, currency, securities, negotiable or nonnegotiable documents, jewels or
other property of great monetary value, nor to any person engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail who, in the course of
such business and as an incident thereto, cashes checks, drafts, money orders
or other evidences of money.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-30-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of or conduct a currency exchange within
the Village without first having obtained a license so to do.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
4-30-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for the license shall be made in conformity with the general
requirements of this title relating to applications for licenses.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 31: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY OCCUPANTS
Section
4-31-1:   Definitions
4-31-2:   Tenant Registration Required
4-31-3:   Change In Tenant Information; Time Limit For Registering
4-31-4:   Registration Fee
4-31-5:   Issuance And Display Of Certificate Of Registration
4-31-6:   Maintenance And Distribution Of Registration Forms
4-31-7:   Verification Of Tenants By Owners Required
4-31-8:   Penalty
4-31-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the
following terms shall have the following meanings:
COMMERCIAL BUILDING: A structure, or part thereof, enclosing space designed or
used for nonresidential purposes when such space is leased, rented or otherwise
occupied and utilized for purposes other than as a residence. Commercial
buildings do not include churches, synagogues, temples, mosques or other
buildings which are designed and used primarily for religious purposes and
which are not subject to ad valorem real estate taxes. If a building is used
for both residential and nonresidential purposes, then the portion of the
building that is used for nonresidential purposes shall constitute a COMMERCIAL
BUILDING for purposes of this chapter. If an area within a building or
structure is used for religious purposes and is not subject to ad valorem real
estate taxes, while another area of the same building or structure is not used
for religious purposes and is subject to ad valorem real estate taxes, then
that portion of the building not used for religious purposes shall be
considered to be a COMMERCIAL BUILDING.
OWNER: The legal title holder or holders of the realty; except, if legal title
is held by an Illinois land trust, OWNER shall mean the beneficial owner or the
beneficiary of the trust.
PERSON: Natural persons, individuals, partnerships, associations,
organizations, corporations of all types and any other entity which constitutes
a legal person; provided, that PERSON shall not include agencies or departments
of the government of the United States of America, the State of Illinois, or
the Village. A PERSON does not include public school districts, community
college districts or public universities or colleges.
TENANT: One or more persons, as defined in this section, who occupy all or a
portion of the premises within a commercial building under a lease, rental
agreement, license or any other similar arrangement. If a commercial building
is occupied by an owner of the building, the owner shall be considered to be a
tenant. Persons who occupy rooms in hotels or persons who obtain a license or
lease to temporarily occupy or use space in a hotel, restaurant or other
similar building or facility for purposes of holding a conference, meeting,
banquet or similar type of activity are not tenants for purposes of this
chapter. Tenants do not include persons who obtain licenses to use or occupy
the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center, the Allstate Arena or the Rosemont
Theatre and do not include persons who obtain licenses to use or occupy the
Rosemont Health and Fitness Club for a period of less than thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 2005-11-2E, 11-2-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
4-31-2: TENANT REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Each tenant shall annually register with the Village during the month
of January by completing and filing a registration form with the Director of
the Health and Licensing Department which, when completed fully and accurately,
sets forth the following information relating to the tenant:
      1.   The tenant’s name and the street address, suite number if
applicable, and telephone number of the premises within a commercial building
occupied by the tenant. If the tenant is not a natural person, the statement
shall include the name, street address, telephone number and position of the
individual who supervises the management of the premises occupied by the tenant
within the commercial building.
      2.   The name, street address and telephone number of a person twenty one
(21) years of age or older designated by the tenant as the person who is to be
contacted in the event an emergency situation arises relating to the tenant's
occupancy of premises within a commercial building.
      3.   A description of the types of commercial activities in which the
tenant engages on the premises of the commercial building.
   B.   For purposes of this section, a post office box does not suffice as an
address.
   C.   All information included within the registration form required to be
filed pursuant to this section shall be accurate as of the date the
registration form is filed with the Village.
   D.   The registration form shall be provided by the Village.
   E.   A separate registration form shall be filed for each commercial
building in which the tenant occupies premises.
(Ord. 2005-11-2E, 11-2-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
4-31-3: CHANGE IN TENANT INFORMATION; TIME LIMIT FOR REGISTERING:
   A.   If any of the information contained in a registration form which is
filed pursuant to section
4-31-2 of this chapter changes or otherwise becomes inaccurate, the tenant
shall file an amended and updated registration form within thirty (30) days
which contains accurate and complete information.
   B.   A person who becomes a tenant and who has not filed a registration form
pursuant to section
4-31-2 of this chapter in connection with the premises in a commercial building
occupied by the tenant, shall file the required registration form within thirty
(30) days after the date the premises in the commercial building is first
occupied or used by the tenant.
(Ord. 2005-11-2E, 11-2-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
4-31-4: REGISTRATION FEE:
At the time that a tenant files the registration form required under section
6-9-2 of this chapter, the tenant shall pay a registration fee as set forth in
the Village's schedule of fees (Rosemont Code, Section 3-10-1 et seq.) to the
Village. Except, no registration fee shall be paid by a nonprofit corporation
or limited liability company or by a tenant who presents proof that they have
been issued an exemption identification number by the Illinois Department of
Revenue which indicates that personal property sold to the tenant is exempt
from the Illinois retailers' occupation tax ( commonly referred to as "Illinois
sales tax").
(Ord. 2005-11-2E, 11-2-2005, eff. 1-1-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-7-10A, 7-10-2023)
4-31-5: ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall issue, or cause to be
issued, a certificate of registration to each tenant that registers in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter. The tenant shall display the
certificate of registration in a prominent place within the premises in a
commercial building for which the certificate of registration was issued.
(Ord. 2005-11-2E, 11-2-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
4-31-6: MAINTENANCE AND DISTRIBUTION OF REGISTRATION FORMS:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department, or his designee, shall
maintain the registration forms filed pursuant to sections
4-31-2 and
4-31-3 of this chapter and shall either provide a copy of the registration
forms or otherwise provide the information contained in the registration forms
to the Village Department of Public Safety. The registration forms filed
pursuant to sections
4-31-2 and
4-31-3 of this chapter and the information contained in the registration forms
are gathered and maintained by the Village for emergency, safety and law
enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 2005-11-2E, 11-2-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
4-31-7: VERIFICATION OF TENANTS BY OWNERS REQUIRED:
Each owner of a commercial building shall, prior to allowing any person to
become a tenant of the commercial building, require such person to provide
proof that the person has obtained all Village licenses which are needed in
order for such person to be able to lawfully carry on the business activities
which such person intends to undertake within the commercial building. The
owner shall keep and maintain the proof provided and shall furnish such proof
to the Director of the Health and Licensing Department, or his designee, upon
request.
(Ord. 2005-11-2E, 11-2-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
4-31-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or who shall
refuse, neglect or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter
shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day such violation continues.
(Ord. 2005-11-2E, 11-2-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
TITLE 5: HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1: WEEDS AND OVERGROWN VEGETATION
Section
5-1-1:   Weeds Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
5-1-2:   Excessive Height Of Vegetation; Nuisance Declared
5-1-3:   Notice To Abate Unlawful Vegetation
5-1-4:   Abatement By Village; Costs A Lien
Cross-reference:
   See also section 7-8-9 of this Code
5-1-1: WEEDS PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other weeds
of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the Village are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or
occupant of a lot or tract of land in the Village to permit any such weeds to
grow or remain on the lot or tract of land.
(Ord. 2007-7-11R, 7-11-2007)
5-1-2: EXCESSIVE HEIGHT OF VEGETATION; NUISANCE DECLARED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers, shrubs, vines, ground cover, common garden crops
such as farm food, or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding
eight inches (8") anywhere in the Village, except in natural and buffer areas
or preserves as provided under the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act (525
ILCS 30/1 et seq.) Any such plants or weeds exceeding such height are hereby
declared to be nuisances.
(Ord. 2007-7-11R, 7-11-2007)
5-1-3: NOTICE TO ABATE UNLAWFUL VEGETATION:
The Director of the Health and Licensing Department may serve or cause to be
served, by certified United States mail or personal service, on the person to
whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the last
preceding year of any property on which weeds, grass or plants are permitted to
grow in violation of section 5-1-1 or 5-1-2 of this chapter a notice to abate
such weeds, grass or plants. The notice shall demand that the weeds, grass or
plants be cut or otherwise removed within five (5) days from the date of the
notice so that the weeds, grass or plants no longer constitute a nuisance under
the provisions of this chapter. Where the last taxpayer of record cannot be
found or otherwise served with notice by mail, then alternatively, notice to
abate a violation of section 5-1-1 or 5-1-2 of this chapter may be given by
posting a sign in a conspicuous place near the main entrance of a structure or
on the property. In either event, the text of the notice shall contain a
reference to the provision of this chapter violated and may contain such other
information respecting the nature of the violation as the Director deems
advisable.
(Ord. 2007-7-11R, 7-11-2007)
5-1-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS A LIEN:
   A.   If the person or persons served with a notice pursuant to section 5-1-
3 of this chapter do not cut or otherwise remove the weeds, grass or plants as
provided in said section 5-1-3 within five (5) days from the date of the
notice, then the Village Director of Public Works or such persons as may be
designated by the Director of Public Works may proceed to cut or otherwise
remove the weeds, grass or plants so that the weeds, grass and plants no longer
constitute a nuisance under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   1.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department, or another
Village official designated by the Village President, shall keep a record of
the costs incurred by the Village in cutting or otherwise removing the weeds,
grass or plants, and such costs shall be charged to the person to whom was sent
the tax bill for general taxes for the last preceding year on the property
where the weeds, grass or plants were cut or otherwise removed, and while
unpaid, such cutting or removal costs shall constitute a lien against the
property where the weeds, grass or plants were otherwise removed.
      2.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department or such other
person as may be designated by the Village President shall cause notice of the
costs and lien to be personally served or served by certified mail on the
person to whom was sent the tax bill for general taxes for the last preceding
year for property where the weeds, grass or plants were cut or otherwise
removed.
      3.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department, or such other
person as may be designated by the Village President, shall cause notice of the
lien to be filed in the Office of the Recorder of Cook County within sixty (60)
days after the date the weeds, grass or plants were cut or otherwise removed.
(Ord. 2007-7-11R, 7-11-2007)
CHAPTER 2: INFECTED TREES
Section
5-2-1:   Definitions
5-2-2:   Nuisances Declared And Prohibited
5-2-3:   Notice To Remove
5-2-4:   Removal By Village Or Contractor
5-2-5:   Notice Of Removal Costs; Lien Provisions
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
INFECTED TREE: An elm tree infected with Dutch elm disease or an ash tree
infected with the emerald ash borer.
REMOVAL COST: The total cost of the removal of an infected tree.
(Ord. 2011-11-9G, 11-9-2011)
5-2-2: NUISANCES DECLARED AND PROHIBITED:
   A.   Dutch Elm Disease: All species and varieties of elm trees (trees of the
genus Ulmus) infected with the fungus known as “Dutch elm disease” (Ophistoma/
Ceratostomella) are declared to be public nuisances and shall be removed and
properly disposed of by the owners of the properties on which such infected
trees are located within twenty (20) days following written notice from the
Village.
   B.   Emerald Ash Borer: All species and varieties of ash trees (trees of the
genus Fraxinus) infected with emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire)
are declared to be public nuisances and shall be removed and properly disposed
of by the owners of the properties on which such trees are located within
twenty (20) days following written notice from the Village.
   C.   Offense: It is unlawful to maintain an infected tree within the Village
after notice from the Village as provided in this chapter to remove and dispose
of an infected tree.
(Ord. 2011-11-9G, 11-9-2011)
5-2-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
   A.   Duty To Remove: It shall be the duty of the owner of the property to
remove and properly dispose of any infected trees located on the owner's
property within twenty (20) days following written notice from the Village to
remove the infected trees.
   B.   Serving Notice: Written notice to remove infected trees shall be deemed
served upon the owner of the property upon which the trees are located when
delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service,
to the person, firm or entity listed in the records of the Cook County
Treasurer as the taxpayer of record for the property.
   C.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall state that:
      1.   A tree located on the owner’s property is infected with Dutch elm
disease or with emerald ash borers and has been declared to be a public
nuisance;
      2.   That the public nuisance must be remedied by the properly removing
and disposing of the infected tree within twenty (20) days of the date of the
notice;
      3.   That if the owner refuses, fails or neglects to properly remove and
dispose of the infected tree within twenty (20) days, the Village will enter
upon the property with its own forces, or with the forces of an independent
contractor, to cause the infected tree to be removed and properly disposed of;
and
      4.   That the removal cost incurred by the Village will be a lien upon
the owner’s property.
(Ord. 2011-11-9G, 11-9-2011)
5-2-4: REMOVAL BY VILLAGE OR CONTRACTOR:
If the owner of the property upon which an infected tree is located shall
refuse, fail, or neglect to remove and properly dispose of an infected tree
within twenty (20) days after written notice is served upon the owner in
accordance with this chapter, the infected tree shall be removed by Village
forces, or by the forces of an independent contractor engaged by the Village,
and the removal costs incurred by the Village shall be a debt collectible by
the Village from the owner of the property.
(Ord. 2011-11-9G, 11-9-2011)
5-2-5: NOTICE OF REMOVAL COSTS; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   After an infected tree has been removed by the Village as provided in
section 5-2-4 of this chapter, the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department shall cause a written notice to be personally served on, or sent by
certified mail to, the person listed in the records of the Cook County
Treasurer as the taxpayer of record for the property. Such notice shall:
      1.   Identify the property from which the infected tree was removed by
common address or street description;
      2.   State that the owner of the property has failed, refused or
neglected to remove and dispose of a tree infected with Dutch elm disease or
emerald ash borer after notice from the Village as required by this chapter;
      3.   Describe the removal activity taken by the Village; and
      4.   State that the Village has incurred actual costs  and stating those
costs, for removing and disposing of a tree infected with Dutch elm disease or
emerald ash borer.
   B.   Pursuant to the authority contained within section 11-20-15 of the
Illinois Municipal Code and this chapter, the cost incurred by the Village for
removal of infected trees shall be a lien upon the underlying parcel of
property. Within one year from the date that the removal cost is incurred, the
Director of the Health and Licensing Department may file a notice of lien in
the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, Illinois, which shall set
out:
      1.   A description of the underlying property that sufficiently
identifies the parcel;
      2.   The amount of the removal cost incurred by the Village; and
      3.   The date or dates when the removal cost was incurred by the Village.
(Ord. 2011-11-9G, 11-9-2011)
CHAPTER 3: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
5-3-1:   Definitions
5-3-2:   Collection, Removal And Disposal Requirements
5-3-3:   Containers
5-3-3-1:   Containers Required
5-3-3-2:   Container And Accessibility Requirements
5-3-3-3:   Placement Of Containers
5-3-4:   Waste Not Subject To Removal By Village
5-3-5:   Restrictions On Contents And Removal Of Waste From Containers
5-3-6:   Additional Prohibited Acts
5-3-7:   Regulations Authorized
5-3-8:   Penalty
5-3-9:   Intent Of Provisions
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ASHES: Residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
GARBAGE: Waste resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food and wastes from the handling, processing, storage and
sale of produce.
LANDSCAPE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs
and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns, shrubbery,
vines and trees.
LITTER: Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings, motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal,
noxious or offensive matter of any kind, object likely to injure any person or
create a traffic hazard, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature
which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
Materials that are disposed of in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter shall not be considered to be LITTER.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any material in the open or in an open dump.
OPEN DUMPING: The consolidation of waste from one or more sources at a site
that does not fulfill the requirements of a sanitary landfill under the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.)
RECYCLABLE WASTE: Clear glass, aluminum cans and newsprint and any other type
of waste designated by the Director of Public Works as recyclable.
REFUSE: All waste, except body waste and landscape waste, including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes and recyclable waste.
RUBBISH: All waste, including garbage but excluding ashes, landscape waste and
recyclable waste.
WASTE: Rubbish, refuse, garbage, ashes, landscape waste and recyclable waste.
(Ord. 90-8-1B, 8-1-1990)
5-3-2: COLLECTION, REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Single-Family Homes And Condominiums: Except for waste described in
section 5-3-4 of this chapter, the Village will collect waste from single-
family houses and condominiums in accordance with the terms and conditions of
sections 5-3-3-1 and 5-3-3-2 of this chapter. All waste not collected by the
Village shall be disposed of by the owner or occupant of the premises on which
the waste is produced or located in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter applicable to premises which are not single-family houses or
condominiums.
   B.   Other Than Single-Family Homes And Condominiums:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, the owners,
managers or occupants of premises in the Village, other than single-family
houses and condominiums, must provide for removal of waste from the premises by
a scavenger service licensed by the Village at least once in every seven (7)
day period.
      2.   The owners, managers or occupants of premises in the Village, other
than single-family houses and condominiums, that are either: a) in the area of
the Village that is located north and west of the intersection of Mannheim Road
and Lunt Avenue; or b) in the area of the Village bounded by Higgins Road on
the north, River Road on the east, Glen Lake Street on the south and Shafer
Court on the west must provide for removal of waste from the premises by a
scavenger service licensed by the Village at least twice in every seven (7) day
period. If there are two (2) removals of waste from premises that are either:
a) in the area of the Village that is located north and west of the
intersection of Mannheim Road and Lunt Avenue; or b) in the area of the Village
bounded by Higgins Road on the north, River Road on the east, Glen Lake Street
on the south and Shafer Court on the west during a seven (7) day period, each
removal shall occur no earlier than the third day after the day on which the
previous removal occurred. If there are three (3) removals during a seven (7)
day period from premises that are either located north and west of the
intersection of Mannheim Road and Lunt Avenue or in the area of the Village
that is located north and west of the intersection of Mannheim Road and Lunt
Avenue, at least one of the removals shall occur no earlier than the second day
after the day on which the previous removal occurred.
      3.   The obligation of the owner, manager and occupant of premises to
provide for the removal of waste from the premises as required by this
subsection is a joint and several obligation of the owner, manager and
occupant.
(Ord. 2007-11-7C, 11-7-2007)
5-3-3: CONTAINERS:
5-3-3-1: CONTAINERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Every owner or occupant of a single-family house or condominium for
which the Village provides waste removal service shall place or deposit ashes,
landscape waste, rubbish and recyclable waste in separate containers. The
containers shall be of the material, construction and capacity set forth in
section
5-3-3-2 of this section
5-3-3 for refuse and landscape waste.
   B.   Every owner of a multi-family building other than a condominium located
within the Village shall provide at least one container of the material,
construction and capacity described in subsection
5-3-3-2A1 of this section
5-3-3 for use by the occupants of each dwelling unit within the multi- family
building.
   C.   Every owner or occupant of premises within the Village which is not
used for residential purposes must provide a sufficient number of containers
for the deposit of waste produced or located on the premises.
(Ord. 90-8-1B, 8-1-1990)
5-3-3-2: CONTAINER AND ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   A container into which rubbish or ashes are deposited on the
premises of a single-family house or a condominium shall be watertight and made
of durable rigid plastic or galvanized iron or other metal with a close fitting
cover. All such containers shall have a capacity of not less than five (5)
gallons nor more than thirty (30) gallons and shall be provided with suitable
handles. All such containers shall at all times be maintained in good
condition.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection A4 of this section, a container
into which refuse is deposited that is located on the premises of multi-family
residential buildings shall meet the requirements of subsection A1 of this
section or be a dumpster provided by a scavenger service licensed by the
Village which has a close fitting cover.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection A4 of this section, containers in
which refuse is deposited located on premises that are not used for residential
purposes shall meet the requirements of subsection A1 of this section or be a
dumpster provided by a scavenger service licensed by the Village. If garbage is
deposited in a dumpster, the dumpster must have a close fitting cover.
      4.   Containers in which refuse is deposited located on premises in the
area of the Village located north and west of the intersection of Mannheim Road
and Lunt Avenue or in the area of the Village bounded by Higgins Road on the
north, River Road on the east, Glen Lake Street on the south and Shafer Court
on the west must be dumpsters provided by a scavenger service licensed by the
Village which have close fitting covers and which have a capacity or size of
not more nor less than 1.5 cubic yards, unless the premises is a residential
condominium unit to which the Village provides waste collection service as
provided in subsection 5-3-2A of this chapter.
      5.   All containers in which landscape waste is placed must be
biodegradable and must be closed or sealed.
      6.   In addition to being placed in a container or dumpster in accordance
with subsection A1, A2, A3 or A4 of this section, all garbage must be placed in
a closed or sealed bag.
      7.   Recyclable waste produced or located on the premises of a single-
family house or a condominium shall be deposited into the container provided by
the Village for recyclable waste or if no such container has been provided by
the Village, into a container that meets the requirements of subsection A1 of
this section.
      8.   The owners, managers and occupants of all premises are prohibited
from placing furniture, appliances or any other item too large to be placed
inside a dumpster or other waste container in such a manner that either persons
entitled to use a dumpster or other waste container or a scavenger or waste
disposal service that has been retained to remove or empty a dumpster or other
waste container is hindered or prevented from being able to access the waste
container. Any furniture, appliance or other item too large to be placed inside
a dumpster or other waste container that is located on the outside of any
premises and is intended for disposal shall be removed from such premises
within not more than twenty four (24) hours after such item is first placed
outside the premises. It shall be the joint and several obligation of the owner
and manager of the premises and any occupant of the premises who placed such an
item outside on the premises to notify a waste disposal company to remove the
item from the premises. Any failure to have an item removed or to notify a
waste disposal company as required by this subsection A8 shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
      9.   The owners, managers and occupants of all premises, other than the
premises of single-family homes, shall be jointly and severally responsible for
keeping the area on the premises where a dumpster or other waste container in
which refuse, garbage, trash or other waste is deposited sufficiently clear and
unobstructed so that a scavenger or waste disposal service is not hindered or
prevented from removing or emptying the dumpster or other waste container. Any
failure to maintain a premises as required by this subsection A9 shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
      10.   The owners, managers and occupants of all premises, other than the
premises of single-family homes, are prohibited from parking a motor vehicle in
the area on the premises where a dumpster or other waste container is located
in such a manner that persons entitled to use the dumpster or other waste
container are hindered or prevented from accessing the waste container or in
such a manner that a scavenger or waste disposal service is hindered or
prevented from removing or emptying the dumpster or other waste container.
      11.   The owners and managers of all premises, other than the premises of
single-family homes, shall be jointly and severally responsible for keeping the
area on the premises where a dumpster or other waste container in which refuse,
garbage, trash or other waste is deposited sufficiently clear of snow and ice
so that persons entitled to use the dumpster or other waste container are not
hindered or prevented from accessing the waste container and so that a
scavenger or waste disposal service is not hindered or prevented from removing
or emptying the dumpster or other waste container. Any failure to maintain a
premises as required by this subsection A11 shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   B.   Administrative Adjudication:
      1.   Violations of the provisions of this section are subject to
prosecution under the Village administrative adjudication proceedings
established pursuant to title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code, as now or
hereafter amended.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not preclude the Village
from using other methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of
this section including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which
has jurisdiction to consider the violation.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction or upon an administrative determination that a violation
occurred, be fined in an amount of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) or more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each twenty four (24) hour period that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2009-1-7F, 1-7-2009)
5-3-3-3: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS:
   A.   The owner or occupant of a single-family house or a condominium to
which the Village provides waste removal service may place waste containers
that meet the requirements of subsection
5-3-3-1A and section
5-3-3-2 of this section
5-3-3, and which contain waste along the curb of a public street or on the
public right-of-way or in an alley adjacent to the single-family house or
condominium during the eighteen (18) hour period prior to the time the waste is
scheduled to be removed by, or on behalf of, the Village. Any such waste
containers that are placed in a public street or alley or on a public right-of-
way must be removed from the public street, alley or public right-of-way prior
to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the day after the waste is collected from the
waste container.
   B.   The Director of Public Works or his designee may authorize the owner or
occupant of a single- family house or a condominium to which the Village
provides waste removal service to place waste containers or large bulk waste
along the curb of a public street or on the public right-of-way or in an alley
adjacent to the single-family house or condominium at times other than those
specified in subsection A of this section; provided, that such authorization
must be given in writing and must be due to the existence of circumstances
which make it reasonably impractical or impose a hardship for the owner or
occupant to comply with the provisions of subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 2003-8-6H, 8-6-2003)
5-3-4: WASTE NOT SUBJECT TO REMOVAL BY VILLAGE:
   A.   The Village shall not remove the following types of waste from single-
family houses and condominiums:
      1.   Garbage that is not within a bag and container as required by
subsections
5-3-3-2A1 and A6 of this chapter.
      2.   Any waste which is produced or generated other than through the use
of the premises as a residence.
      3.   Any waste produced or generated as the result of construction or
repair activity unless such waste is placed in a container that meets the
requirements of subsection
5-3-3-2A1 of this chapter.
      4.   Any landscape waste that is not within a biodegradable container as
required by subsection
5-3-3-2A5 of this chapter.
      5.   Any appliances, furniture or other items which cannot be placed in a
container which meets the requirements of subsection
5-3-3-2A1 of this chapter.
      6.   Any waste which has not been placed along the curb or other location
designated by the Village as the area or place where waste to be removed by the
Village will be picked up by the Village.
   B.   No person shall place any waste on a street, parkway, sidewalk, alley
or other public right-of-way which is not subject to removal by the Village
under the provisions of this chapter; except, that large items otherwise not
subject to removal under subsection A5 of this section may be placed on a
public right-of-way adjacent to a single-family house or condominium on days
designated by the Director of Public Works as days on which the Village will
remove large waste items from the premises of single-family houses and
condominiums.
(Ord. 2002-11-6H, 11-6-2002)
5-3-5: RESTRICTIONS ON CONTENTS AND REMOVAL OF WASTE FROM CONTAINERS:
   A.   No person shall deposit or place in any container in which ashes have
been deposited, any article or thing but ashes.
   B.   No person shall deposit or place in any container in which landscape
waste has been deposited, any article or thing other than landscape waste.
   C.   No person shall place or deposit in any container located on or
adjacent to the premises of a single- family house or condominium in which
recyclable waste has been deposited, any article or thing except recyclable
waste.
   D.   No person other than the Village shall remove any waste from the
premises of a single-family house or condominium or remove any waste from a
street, sidewalk, parkway or other public right-of-way adjacent to such
premises without the permission of the owner or occupant of the premises.
   E.   No person shall remove any waste from any premises for which the
Village does not provide waste removal service without the permission of the
owner, occupant or a tenant of the premises.
   F.   No person shall deface or destroy any waste container without the
permission of the owner, occupant or tenant of the premises on which the
container is located.
   G.   No person other than a collector employed by the Village or a scavenger
service licensed by the Village shall displace, uncover or in any way disturb a
waste container or the contents of a waste container without the permission of
the owner, occupant or tenant of the premises on which the container is
located. If a container has been placed on a street, in accordance with
subsection 5-3-3-3A of this chapter for waste removal by the Village, then no
person other than a collector employed by the Village, or another Village
employee, or the person who caused the container to be placed on the street or
parkway shall displace, uncover or in any way disturb the container or its
contents.
(Ord. 90-8-1B, 8-1-1990)
5-3-6: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED ACTS:
No persons shall:
   A.   Cause or allow the open dumping of any waste within the Village.
   B.   Abandon, dump or deposit any waste upon any street, sidewalk, alley,
park or other public place within the Village; except, that the owner or
occupant of a single-family house or condominium to which the Village provides
waste removal service may place waste in a street, alley or other public right-
of-way in accordance with and subject to subsection
5-3-3-3A of this chapter.
   C.   Cause or allow the open burning of waste within the Village which is
not in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act or any other applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 2003-8-6H, 8-6-2003)
   D.   Store, cast, throw, drop, place or deposit anywhere within the Village
any waste in such a manner that the waste may be carried by the action of the
sun, wind, rain or snow into or upon any street, sidewalk, alley, park or other
place in the Village or into or upon adjacent premises.
   E.   Store, place or deposit any landscape waste, except firewood, within an
enclosed structure. All firewood stored within an enclosed structure must be
stored in a place and manner so that it is not susceptible to spontaneous
combustion.
(Ord. 90-8-1B, 8-1-1990)
5-3-7: REGULATIONS AUTHORIZED:
The Director of Public Works is authorized to issue regulations consistent with
the provision of this chapter which are reasonably necessary to provide for the
efficient collection of waste by the Village from single-family houses and
condominiums or which are reasonably necessary to implement the requirements
and restrictions of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-8-1B, 8-1-1990)
5-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or who shall refuse,
neglect or fail to comply with any or all of the requirements of this chapter,
shall, upon conviction of any such violation, refusal, neglect or failure to
comply, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct
offense shall be deemed to have occurred for every day during which a person
violates, refuses, neglects or fails to comply with any or all of the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-8-1B, 8-1-1990)
5-3-9: INTENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   It is the intent of the Corporate Authorities of the Village that this
chapter be interpreted consistent with the requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act.
   B.   It is the intention of the Corporate Authorities of the Village, in
enacting this chapter, to supplement, not supersede or replace, the
requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act.
(Ord. 90-8-1B, 8-1-1990)
CHAPTER 4: LITTER CONTROL
Section
5-4-1:   Littering On Public Ways And Places
5-4-2:   Littering From Vehicles
5-4-3:   Littering From Aircraft
5-4-4:   Littering On Private Property
5-4-5:   Litter Regulations For Businesses
5-4-6:   Depositing Litter Into Receptacles
5-4-7:   Distributing Handbills
5-4-8:   Posting Notices
5-4-9:   Enforcement
5-4-10:   Administrative Adjudication/Penalty
5-4-1: LITTERING ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the Village except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles for collection, or in official Village dumps.
(1971 Code § 18-16; amd. Ord. 2001-9-5D, 9-5-2001)
   B.   1. No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the Village the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
      2.   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in
front of their premises free of litter.
(1971 Code § 18-18)
5-4-2: LITTERING FROM VEHICLES:
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the Village, or upon
private property.
(1971 Code § 18-20)
5-4-3: LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT:
No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the Village
any litter, handbill or any other object.
(1971 Code § 18-26)
5-4-4: LITTERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the Village, whether owned by such person or not; except, that
the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
(1971 Code § 18-28)
   B.   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter. This subsection shall not prohibit
the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection.
(1971 Code § 18-29)
   C.   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the Village, whether owned by such person or not.
(1971 Code § 18-30; amd. Ord. 2001-9-5D, 9-5-2001)
5-4-5: LITTER REGULATIONS FOR BUSINESSES:
   A.   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the Village the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway.
   B.   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the Village shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
(1971 Code § 18-19)
5-4-6: DEPOSITING LITTER INTO RECEPTACLES:
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(1971 Code § 18-17)
5-4-7: DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS:
   A.   Public Ways: No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street, or other public place
within the Village or hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in
any public place. It shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street, or other
public place within the Village for any person to hand out or distribute,
without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any
person willing to accept it.
(1971 Code § 18-21)
   B.   Vehicles: No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall
not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute,
without charge to the receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any
occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(1971 Code § 18-22)
   C.   Vacant Property: No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which is temporarily or
continuously uninhabited or vacant.
(1971 Code § 18-23)
   D.   Private Property:
      1.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises if requested by anyone thereon
not to do so, or if there is placed on such premises, in a conspicuous position
near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words “No Advertisement”, “No
Trespassing”, “No Peddlers or Agents” or any similar notice indicating in any
manner that the occupants of such premises do not desire to have their right of
privacy disturbed or to have any handbills left upon such premises.
(1971 Code § 18-24)
      2.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant,
or other person then present in or upon such private premises. In case of
inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in this
subsection, the person, unless requested by anyone upon the premises not to do
so, may place or deposit any handbill in or upon the inhabited private premises
if the handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent the handbill
from being blown or drifted about the premises or sidewalks, streets, or other
public places; except, that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by
Federal postal law or regulations. The provisions of this subsection D2 shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers;
except, that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as
to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(1971 Code § 18-25)
5-4-8: POSTING NOTICES:
No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device
calculated to attract the attention of the public to any lamppost, public
utility pole or shade tree or upon any public structure or building, except as
may be authorized or required by law.
(1971 Code § 18-27)
5-4-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The Superintendent of Public Safety and all public safety officers are hereby
required to enforce this chapter.
(1971 Code § 18-31)
5-4-10: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION/PENALTY:
   A.   Administrative Adjudication:
      1.   Violations of the provisions of this chapter are subject to
prosecution under the Village’s administrative adjudication proceedings set
forth in Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A, of the Village Code, as of now or
hereafter amended.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from
using other methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this
chapter, including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which
has jurisdiction to consider the violation.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, shall,
upon conviction or upon an administrative determination that a violation
occurred, be fined in the amount of not less than two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00) or more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. Each twenty-four (24) hour period that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2001-9-5D, 9-5-2001)
CHAPTER 5: WATER POLLUTION
Section
5-5-1:   Definitions
5-5-2:   Water Pollution Prohibited
5-5-3:   Discharge Of Treated Liquids Permitted
5-5-4:   Permit To Discharge
5-5-5:   Pollution Of Swimming Pools
5-5-6:   Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
EFFLUENT: The liquids or other substance flowing out of any plant or facility
constructed and operated for the discharge of sewage, industrial wastes and any
liquid or other discharge.
OUTLET: The point of discharge of an effluent or other substance into the
atmosphere, underground, ditch, or other area, watercourse, or other body of
surface water or groundwater, and onto any surface or place.
WATER POLLUTION: An impairment of the quality of the underground or surface
waters by sewage, dead animals, garbage, discarded metal articles, industrial
wastes or any other thing which adversely affects the use of the water for
domestic, industrial, agricultural, navigational, recreational or other
purposes.
WATERCOURSE: Any channel, either natural or artificial, for the flow of water.
(1971 Code § 16-11)
5-5-2: WATER POLLUTION PROHIBITED:
No person shall discharge or deposit wastes or sewage which creates a public
nuisance, a menace to the public safety, pollution or contamination of
underground or surface waters, or impairs the use of any private sewer, storm
drain channel or public or private property.
(1971 Code § 16-12)
5-5-3: DISCHARGE OF TREATED LIQUIDS PERMITTED:
No person shall discharge into any outlet any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes or other polluted liquids, except when the same has been treated as
required by law.
(1971 Code § 16-13)
5-5-4: PERMIT TO DISCHARGE:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall discharge any wastes or sewage into
any watercourse, or tributary thereof, or into the ground by percolation or
injection without a permit from the Village Engineer subject to prior approval
of the President and Board of Trustees.
(1971 Code § 16-14)
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for a discharge permit shall be
in writing, signed by the applicant and filed with the Village Engineer. The
application shall state:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The type of wastes or sewage to be discharged.
      3.   The quantity to be discharged, maximum amounts per hour per day.
      4.   The treatment given to discharge, if any.
      5.   Proof by affidavit of compliance with all Village, County, State and
Federal laws concerning pollution of waterways.
(1971 Code § 16-15)
   C.   Investigation Of Applicant; Inspection Of Facilities:
      1.   The Village Engineer or his designee shall cause an investigation to
be made of the facts stated in the application for a permit to discharge into
the Village waterways.
      2.   The Village Engineer or his designee shall cause an inspection to be
made of the premises and facilities to be used for the discharges to ascertain
the fitness of the premises and facility to comply with the Village, County,
State, and Federal laws concerning water pollution.
(1971 Code § 16-16)
   D.   Periodic Inspections: The Village Engineer or his designee shall
inspect the premises and facilities of any permittee under this section to
ensure there is compliance with all Village, County, State and Federal laws
concerning water pollution.
(1971 Code § 16-17)
   E.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon completion of the requirements of subsections
B, C and E of this section, the Village Engineer may grant a discharge permit
to the applicant.
(1971 Code § 16-19)
5-5-5: POLLUTION OF SWIMMING POOLS:
Every person who illegally pollutes in any manner the water of any swimming
pool shall be guilty of violating this chapter.
(1971 Code § 16-20)
5-5-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or
who shall fail to comply herewith or with any of the requirements hereof shall
be punishable by a fine not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   The violation of any section of this chapter shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense independent of the violation of any other section
of this chapter or of any order issued pursuant to this chapter. Each day of
violation shall constitute an additional, separate and distinct offense.
(1971 Code § 16-21)
CHAPTER 6: AIR POLLUTION
Section
5-6-1:   Title
5-6-2:   Findings And Declaration Of Policy
5-6-3:   Definitions
5-6-4:   Air Pollution Prohibited; Exceptions
5-6-5:   Open Burning
5-6-6:   Smoke Emissions From Fuel Burning Equipment
5-6-7:   Inspections; Entry Powers
5-6-8:   Search Or Access Warrant
5-6-9:   Penalty
5-6-10:   Interpretation Of Provisions
5-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the AIR POLLUTION CONTROL CODE
OF THE VILLAGE OF ROSEMONT.
(1971 Code § 16-1)
5-6-2: FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared that pollution of the atmosphere by smoke, cinders, soot,
fly ash, gases, fumes, vapors, odors, dust and other contaminants is a menace
to the health, welfare, and comfort of the residents of the Village and a cause
of substantial damage to property. For the purpose of controlling and reducing
atmospheric pollution, it is hereby declared to be the policy of the Village to
minimize AIR POLLUTION, as defined in section 5-6-3 of this chapter, and
prohibit excessive emission of the same, to establish standards governing the
installation, maintenance, and operation of equipment and appurtenances
relating to combustion which are a source of potential source of air pollution
and, in furtherance of this purpose, to cooperate and coordinate these efforts
with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and Title II “Air Pollution”
of the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5).
(1971 Code § 16-2)
5-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, wherever used in this chapter or referred to in this
chapter, shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in this section
unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
AIR POLLUTION: The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more air
contaminants in such quantities and duration as are, or tend to be, injurious
to human health or welfare, to animal or plant life, or to property or would
unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property throughout the
Village or such portion as shall be affected thereby, and excludes all aspects
of employer-employee relationship as to health and safety hazards.
ECONOMIC POISONS: Those chemicals used as insecticides, rodenticides,
fungicides, herbicides, nematocides, or defoliants.
FUEL BURNING EQUIPMENT: Any furnace, boiler, water heater, device, mechanism,
stoker, burner, stack, oven, stove, kiln, still, or other apparatus, or a group
or collections of such units in the process of fuel burning for the generation
of heat or power. Refuse burning equipment shall be considered incinerators, as
herein defined, and not as fuel burning equipment under this definition. Ovens,
stoves, or ranges used exclusively for domestic cooking purposes are not
included herein.
INCINERATOR: Any device, apparatus, equipment, or structure used for
destroying, reducing, or salvaging by fire any material or substance including,
but not limited to, refuse, rubbish, garbage, debris, or scrap, or facilities
for cremating human or animal remains.
ODOR: A property of a substance which affects the sense of smell.
OPEN BURNING: Any fire wherein the products of combustion are emitted into the
open air and are not directed through a stack or chimney.
OPERATOR: Any person who has care, custody, or control of a building or
premises, or a portion thereof, whether with or without knowledge of the owner
thereof.
OWNER: Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall have
legal or equitable title to any premises, with or without accompanying actual
possession thereof; or who shall have charge, care, or control of any premises
or part thereof including, but not limited to, a dwelling or dwelling unit as
owner or agent of the owner, or as a fiduciary including, but not limited to,
executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, guardian, or as a mortgagee in
possession regardless of how such possession was obtained. Any person who is a
lessee or sublessee of all or any part of any premises including, but not
limited to, a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be deemed to be a co-owner with
the lessor and shall have joint responsibility with the owner over the premises
or portion thereof so leased or subleased.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible wastes (except body wastes) and
shall include, but not be limited to, garbage, rubbish, yard trimmings, leaves,
ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles, and solid market
and industrial wastes.
RINGELMANN SMOKE CHART: Ringelmann’s Scale for Grading the Density of Smoke,
published by the United States Bureau of Mines, or any chart, recorder,
indicator, or device for the measurement of smoke density which is approved by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency as the equivalent of the
Ringelmann’s scale.
RUBBISH: Solids not considered to be highly flammable or explosive and shall
include, but not be limited to, rags, old clothes, leather, rubber, carpets,
wood, excelsior, paper, ashes, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, tin
cans, glass, crockery, masonry, and other similar materials.
SALVAGE OPERATIONS: Any business, trade, or industry engaged in whole or in
part in salvaging or reclaiming any product or material including, but not
limited to, metals, chemicals, shipping containers, or drums.
SMOKE: Small gasborne and airborne particles arising from a process of
combustion in sufficient number to be observable.
TRADE WASTE: All solid or liquid material or rubbish resulting from
construction, building operations, or the prosecution of any business, trade,
or industry, and shall include, but not be limited to, plastic products,
cartons, paint, grease, oil and other petroleum products, chemicals, cinders,
and other forms of solid or liquid waste materials.
(1971 Code § 16-3)
5-6-4: AIR POLLUTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
No person or owner of property, and no person having possession or control of
property, shall cause, suffer, allow or permit to be emitted into the open air
substances in such quantities as shall result in air pollution. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to the use of economic poisons.
(1971 Code § 16-7)
5-6-5: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning of refuse
or plant life nor conduct a salvage operation by open burning except as
provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   The open burning of trade waste is not prohibited where no other known
method of disposal can be used without hazard to health or property; provided,
that such person complies with the provisions of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.)
(1971 Code § 16-4)
5-6-6: SMOKE EMISSIONS FROM FUEL BURNING EQUIPMENT:
   A.   No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit smoke from any fuel
burning equipment, the shade or appearance of which is darker than No. 1 of the
Ringelmann Smoke Chart, to be emitted into the open air.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to smoke emitted during
the cleaning of a fire box or the building of a new fire, the shade or
appearance of which is not darker than No. 2 of the Ringelmann Smoke Chart, for
a period or periods aggregating no more than three (3) minutes in any fifteen
(15) consecutive minutes.
(1971 Code § 16-5)
5-6-7: INSPECTIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
   A.   All buildings and premises subject to this chapter are subject to
inspection from time to time by the Director of the Health and Licensing
Department or Director of Building and Code Enforcement, or his designee.
   B.   All rooms and areas in the building shall be available and accessible
for such inspection which shall be made during usual business hours if the
premises is used for nonresidential purposes; provided, however, that
inspections may be made at other times if:
      1.   The premises is not available during the foregoing hours for
inspection;
      2.   There is reason to believe that violations are occurring on the
premises which can only be apprehended and proved by inspection during other
than the prescribed hours; or
      3.   There is reason to believe a violation exists of a character which
is an immediate threat to health or safety requiring inspection and abatement
without delay.
   C.   Emergency inspections may be authorized without warrant if the Director
of the Health and Licensing Department or Director of Building and Code
Enforcement, or his designee, has reason to believe that a condition exists
which poses an immediate threat to life, health, or safety. Such procedure
shall take place only where the time required to apply for and secure the
issuance of a warrant would render ineffective the immediate action necessary
to abate the condition.
   D.   Emergency inspections may also be authorized in times of air pollution
emergencies as provided by law.
(1971 Code § 16-8)
5-6-8: SEARCH OR ACCESS WARRANT:
   A.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department or the Director of
Building and Code Enforcement, or his designee, may, upon affidavit, apply to a
judge of competent jurisdiction for a search warrant setting forth factually
the actual conditions and circumstances that provide a reasonable basis for
believing that a nuisance or violation of this chapter may exist on the
premises, including one or more of the following:
      1.   That the premises requires inspection according to the cycle
established by the Director of the Health and Licensing Department or Director
of Building and Code Enforcement, or his designee, for periodic inspections of
premises of the type involved;
      2.   That observation of external conditions (for example, smoke, ash,
soot, odors) of the premises and its public areas has resulted in the belief
that violations of this chapter exist; or
      3.   Circumstances such as age and design of fuel burning equipment and/
or system, types of incinerator, particular use of premises or other factor
which renders systematic inspections of the buildings necessary in the interest
of public health and safety.
   B.   If a judge of competent jurisdiction is satisfied as to the matters set
forth in the affidavit, he shall authorize the issuance of a search warrant
permitting access to and inspection of that part of the premises on which the
nuisance or violation may exist.
(1971 Code § 16-9)
5-6-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or
who shall fail to comply herewith or with any of the requirements hereof shall
be punishable by a fine not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   The violation of any section of this chapter shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense independent of the violation of any other section
of this chapter or of any order issued pursuant to this chapter. Each day of
violation shall constitute an additional, separate and distinct offense.
(1971 Code § 16-21)
5-6-10: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter is to be liberally construed to effectuate the purposes herein
described. Nothing herein is to be construed as repealing or abridging the
emergency powers of any agency of government except to the extent expressly set
forth herein.
(1971 Code § 16-10)
CHAPTER 7: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
5-7-1:   Definitions
5-7-2:   Nonsmoking Areas Designated
5-7-3:   Authority To Designate Other Nonsmoking Areas
5-7-4:   Posting Signs; Removal Of Ashtrays
5-7-5:   Exemptions From Provisions
5-7-6:   Nonretaliation
5-7-7:   Violations; Penalties
5-7-8:   Prosecution Of Violations; Injunctions
5-7-9:   Application Of Other Laws
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the
following terms shall have the following meanings:
BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more than ten percent
(10%) of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the premises. BAR
includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, adult
entertainment facilities, and cabarets.
EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for direct
or indirect monetary wages or profits or a person who volunteers his or her
services for a nonprofit entity.
EMPLOYER: A person, business, partnership, association, or corporation, unit of
local government, trust, or nonprofit entity that employs the services of one
or more individual persons.
ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with: a) solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways; or
b) solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that
extend from the floor to the ceiling including, without limitation, lobbies and
corridors.
ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA: Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley, or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural, recreational, or
other events.
GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES: “Gaming equipment/supplies” as defined in the
Illinois Gaming Board Rules of the Illinois Administrative Code.
GAMING FACILITY: An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of gaming
and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenue.
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. HEALTHCARE FACILITY includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any area under the control of a public or private employer
that employees are required to enter, leave, or pass through during the course
of employment including, but not limited to, entrances and exits to places of
employment, including a minimum distance as set forth in subsection
5-7-2 D of this chapter, of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows
that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms; conference rooms and classrooms;
break rooms and cafeterias; and other common areas. A private residence or home
based business, unless used to provide licensed child care, foster care, adult
care, or other similar social service care on the premises, is not a PLACE OF
EMPLOYMENT, nor are enclosed laboratories, not open to the public, in an
accredited university or government facility where the activity of smoking is
exclusively conducted for the purpose of medical or scientific health related
research.
PRIVATE CLUB: A not-for-profit association that (1) has been in active and
continuous existence for a least three (3) years prior to February 4, 2009,
whether incorporated or not; (2) is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a
building or a portion thereof used exclusively for club purposes at all times;
(3) is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic,
political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain; and (4)
only sells alcohol beverages incidental to its operation. For purposes of this
definition, PRIVATE CLUB means an organization that is managed by a board of
directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an
annual meeting, has established bylaws, a constitution, or both to govern its
activities, and has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal
income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. 501.
PRIVATE RESIDENCE: The part of a structure used as a dwelling including,
without limitation, a private home, townhouse, condominium, or apartment. For
the purposes of this definition, a hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and
breakfast or other similar public accommodation, hospital, nursing home, or
assisted living facility shall not be considered a PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
PUBLIC PLACE: That portion of any building or vehicle used by and open to the
public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned in whole or in
part by private persons or entities, the State of Illinois, or any other public
entity and regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission, including a
minimum distance, as set forth in subsection
5-7-2 D of this chapter, of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows
that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited. A PUBLIC PLACE does not include a private residence unless the
private residence is used to provide licensed child care, foster care, or other
similar social service care on the premises. A PUBLIC PLACE includes, but is
not limited to, hospitals, restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial
establishments, elevators, indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert halls,
public conveyances, educational facilities, nursing homes, auditoriums,
enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting rooms, schools,
exhibition halls, convention facilities, polling places, private clubs, gaming
facilities, all government owned vehicles and facilities, healthcare facilities
or clinics, enclosed shopping centers, retail service establishments, financial
institutions, retail tobacco stores, educational facilities, ticket areas,
public hearing facilities, public restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars,
taverns, bowling alleys, skating rinks, reception areas, and no less than
seventy five percent (75%) of the sleeping quarters within a hotel, motel,
resort, inn, lodge, bed and breakfast, or other similar public accommodation
that are rented to guests, but excludes private residences.
RESTAURANT:
   A.   An eating establishment including, but not limited to, coffee shops,
cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias that
gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees; and
   B.   A kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere.
   C.   RESTAURANT includes a bar area within the restaurant.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail establishment that derives more than eighty
percent (80%) of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, and other smoking devices for burning
tobacco and related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products
is merely incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE includes an enclosed workplace that
manufactures, imports, or distributes tobacco or tobacco products, when, as a
necessary and integral part of the process of making, manufacturing, importing,
or distributing a tobacco product for the eventual retail sale of that tobacco
is tested, provided that the involved business entity: (1) maintains a
specially designated area or areas within the workplace for the purpose of the
heating, burning, smoking, or lighting activities, and does not create a
facility that permits smoking throughout; (2) satisfies the eighty percent
(80%) requirement related to gross sales; and (3) delivers tobacco products to
consumers, retail establishments, or other wholesale establishments as part of
its business. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not include a tobacco department or
section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment with any type
of liquor, food, or restaurant license.
SMOKE OR SMOKING: The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling, or exhaling of any
kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs, or any other
lighted smoking equipment. SMOKE or SMOKING does not include smoking that is
associated with a native recognized religious ceremony, ritual, or activity by
American Indians that is in accordance with the Federal American Indian
Religious Freedom Act, 42 USC 1996 and 1996a.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
5-7-2: NONSMOKING AREAS DESIGNATED:
   A.   No person shall smoke in a public place or in any place of employment
or within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance to a public place or place of
employment.
   B.   No person may smoke in any vehicle owned, leased, or operated by the
Village.
   C.   Smoking is prohibited in indoor public places and workplaces unless
specifically exempted by section
5-7-5 of this chapter.
   D.   Smoking is prohibited within a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15')
from entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited under this chapter so as to ensure
that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through entrances, exits, open
windows, or other means.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is
prohibited in any portion of the living quarters including, but not limited to,
sleeping rooms, dining areas, restrooms, laundry areas, lobbies, and hallways
of a building used in whole or in part as a student dormitory that is owned and
operated or otherwise utilized by a public or private institution of higher
education.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
5-7-3: AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE OTHER NONSMOKING AREAS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer, owner,
occupant, lessee, operator, manager, or other person in control of any public
place or place of employment may designate a nonenclosed area of a public place
or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking is
also prohibited; provided, that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall
conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking in the manner described in
subsections 5-7-4A1 and A2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
5-7-4: POSTING SIGNS; REMOVAL OF ASHTRAYS:
   A.   Signs Posted:
      1.   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of
that place.
      2.   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous
sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
   B.   Ashtray Removal Required: All ashtrays shall be removed from any area
where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or
other person having control of the area.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
5-7-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is allowed in the
following areas:
   A.   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a child
care, adult day care, or healthcare facility or any other home-based business
open to the public;
   B.   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may
be designated as rooms where smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to permanently add additional
nonsmoking rooms;
   C.   Retail tobacco stores as defined in section 5-7-1 may only qualify for
an exemption if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
business and smoke from the business does not migrate into an enclosed area
where smoking is prohibited. A retail tobacco store may only allow the on-
premises consumption of cannabis in a specially designated area by specific
authorization of the corporate authorities of the Village;
   D.   Common smoking rooms in long-term care facilities operated under the
authority of the Illinois Department of Veterans’ Affairs or licensed under the
Nursing Home Care Act that are accessible only to residents who are smokers and
have requested in writing to have access to the common smoking room where
smoking is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the
long-term care facility; and
   E.   A dispensing organization, as defined in the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, but only if specifically authorized by the corporate authorities of
the Village to allow on-site consumption of cannabis, if the establishment: (1)
maintains a specifically designated area or areas for the purpose of heating,
burning, smoking, or lighting cannabis; (2) is limited to individuals twenty-
one (21) or older; (3) maintains a locked door or barrier to any specially
designated areas for the purpose of heating, burning, smoking or lighting
cannabis; and (4), if authorized by the Village, is in compliance with all
other regulations governing said consumption of cannabis on the premises of a
dispensary.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
5-7-6: NONRETALIATION:
No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
5-7-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter, shall be liable for a civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for a first offense and two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
subsequent offense.
   B.   A person who owns, operates, manages or otherwise controls a public
place or a place of employment who fails to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a civil penalty of: (1) two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250.00) for the first violation; (2) five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for the second violation within one (1) year after the first violation; and (3)
two thousand and five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each additional violation
within one (1) year after the first violation.
   C.   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
   D.   A civil penalty imposed under this section shall be allocated as
follows:
      (1)   One-half (1/2) of the civil penalty shall be distributed to the
Illinois Department of Public Health; and
      (2)   One-half (1/2) of the civil penalty shall be distributed to the
Village.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
5-7-8: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIONS:
Violations of the provisions of this chapter are subject to prosecution under
the Village administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to
title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code, as now or hereafter amended. The
provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this chapter
including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit
Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which has
jurisdiction to consider the violation. In the event that a person commits
repeated violations of this chapter, the Village may institute an action to
enjoin further such person from committing further violations of this chapter.
In the event such an action is instituted and an injunction is issued, the
person whose conduct is enjoined shall be required to compensate the Village
for attorney fees and other costs incurred in obtaining the injunction.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
5-7-9: APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS:
This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it
is otherwise prohibited by an applicable Federal or State law.
(Ord. 2008-1-9L, 1-9-2008)
CHAPTER 8: CONDITION OF PRIVATE ROADS, ALLEYS AND
UTILITY FACILITIES
Section
5-8-1:   Definitions
5-8-2:   Nuisance Declared
5-8-3:   Duty To Abate Nuisance; Notice
5-8-4:   Abatement By Village; Costs
5-8-5:   Violation; Penalty
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them below:
NUISANCE: Any privately owned road, alley, sewer or other utility facility in a
location that is open to and available to access by the general public, that
contains or causes a continuing excavation, hole, depression, protrusion or
other unnatural condition in the surface of the earth or in the surface of any
paved area that is likely to interfere with public passage or with public
health, safety or welfare. For purposes of this definition, NUISANCE does not
include unnatural conditions in the surface of the earth or the surface of a
paved area during normal construction, maintenance or repair of a building,
structure, street or other facility that is diligently pursued to completion
pursuant to a permit granted by the Village.
OWNER: Any natural person, association, corporation, partnership or other
entity having a legal or beneficial ownership interest in a private road, alley
or utility facility.
TAXPAYER OF RECORD: The person, firm or entity listed in the records of the
Cook County Treasurer as the current taxpayer of record for the owner’s
property.
(Ord. 2011-11-9F, 11-9-2011)
5-8-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and to be against the health,
safety, peace and comfort of the Village, for any person or group of persons to
suffer or permit a NUISANCE, as defined in section
5-8-1  of this chapter, to continue after a written notice to abate the
nuisance is served upon said person or group of persons in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2011-11-9F, 11-9-2011)
5-8-3: DUTY TO ABATE NUISANCE; NOTICE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner or owners of any private property,
road, alley or utility facility containing a NUISANCE, as defined in section
5-8-1  of this chapter, to abate the nuisance within seven (7) days after the
date of the written notice from the Village to abate the nuisance. Such persons
shall promptly replace, repair and remove the defective condition causing the
nuisance, including restoration of the earth, pavement or utility facility to a
good and safe condition, all in accordance with the ordinances and regulations
of the Village.
   B.   Written notice to abate a nuisance shall be deemed served upon the
owner or owners of any private property, road, alley or utility facility
containing a nuisance when such notice is delivered by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service to the taxpayer of record or the
owners property.
(Ord. 2011-11-9F, 11-9-2011)
5-8-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
   A.   Summary Abatement: In the event that the owner or owners responsible
for the private property, street, alley or utility facility containing a
nuisance fail to abate the nuisance upon notice from the Village, the Village
shall, in addition to any other remedies available to the Village, be
authorized to enter upon the property containing the private property, road,
alley or utility facility containing the nuisance and to summarily abate the
nuisance by correcting the defect in the private property, street, alley or
utility facility and restoring the excavation, hole, depression or other
unnatural condition in the surface of the earth or in the surface of any paved
area to a good and proper condition in accordance with the ordinances and
regulations of the Village.
   B.   Abatement Costs: The cost of such nuisance abatement shall be a charge
against the persons, associations, corporations and entities who failed to
abate the nuisance and shall be paid within thirty (30) days after invoice from
the Village. If not paid within thirty (30) days after invoice from the
Village, the Village may, in addition to any other remedies, add such nuisance
abatement costs to the sewer and water bills charged against the owner or
owners of the private property, street, alley or utility facility that failed
to abate the nuisance, and may thereafter be collected in the same manner, and
with the same penalties, as delinquent sewer and water bills.
(Ord. 2011-11-9F, 11-9-2011)
5-8-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful to maintain a nuisance within the Village after notice from the
Village to remove and abate the nuisance. Any person, firm or corporation found
guilty of violating this chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2011-11-9F, 11-9-2011)
CHAPTER 9: NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
Section
5-9-1:   Program Created; Goals
5-9-2:   Designation Of Neighborhoods
5-9-3:   Criteria For Designating Preservation Areas
5-9-4:   Implementation Of Programs
5-9-1: PROGRAM CREATED; GOALS:
There is hereby established a Neighborhood Preservation Program:
   A.   To prevent the deterioration and abandonment of housing in transitional
neighborhoods.
   B.   To preserve, coordinate and concentrate maintenance efforts by the
Village in designated neighborhoods.
   C.   To promote private investment in housing in those neighborhoods.
   D.   To promote community involvement in all such activities.
(Ord. 76-12-1A, 12-1-1976, eff. 12-16-1976)
5-9-2: DESIGNATION OF NEIGHBORHOODS:
   A.   The Village has conducted studies in consultation with community
representatives to determine which neighborhoods within the Village should be
considered for designation as neighborhood preservation areas and will develop
appropriate programs for each neighborhood so designated.
   B.   The Village Board of Trustees will adopt ordinances or resolutions,
which shall have effective dates subsequent to public meetings at which the
residents of the Village may comment upon any designations tentatively made of
neighborhoods as neighborhood preservation areas.
(Ord. 76-12-1A, 12-1-1976, eff. 12-16-1976)
5-9-3: CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATING PRESERVATION AREAS:
An area meeting any of the following criteria will be eligible for designation
as a neighborhood preservation area:
   A.   Where the existing housing stock is now essentially sound but where
private financial institutions and property owners have recently begun to
withdraw financing;
   B.   Where the housing stock has deteriorated but is in need of moderate
rehabilitation only;
   C.   Where there are substantial numbers of housing units in violation of
existing Village Building Codes;
   D.   Where there have been recent increases in adverse housing indicators;
   E.   Where existing unique community resources distinguish the neighborhood,
such as historic sites or buildings.
(Ord. 76-12-1A, 12-1-1976, eff. 12-16-1976)
5-9-4: IMPLEMENTATION OF PROGRAMS:
Upon designation of neighborhood preservation areas by the Village, the Village
will transmit a communication to the Cook County Bureau of Administration,
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer. This communication will include the
following:
   A.   A legal description of the neighborhood preservation area(s) designated
by the Village and an official Village map delineating the area.
   B.   A statement that the ordinance or resolution designating the
neighborhood preservation area did not become final until members of the public
had an opportunity to comment upon such designation.
   C.   A record of public services (as defined in section 570.200 of the
January 1976 Federal Register) to be provided to the neighborhood preservation
area(s) and a schedule of the use for community development block grant funds
to be applied to housing rehabilitation.
(Ord. 76-12-1A, 12-1-1976, eff. 12-16-1976)
CHAPTER 10: GRAFFITI REMOVAL
Section
5-10-1:   Definitions
5-10-2:   Responsibility For Removal
5-10-3:   Enforcement Official
5-10-4:   Notice Of Violation; Extension Of Time
5-10-5:   Noncompliance With Notice; Removal By Village
5-10-6:   Recovery Of Removal Costs; Lien Provisions
5-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
GRAFFITI: An inscription, drawing, message, slogan, motto, or writing painted,
sprayed or otherwise placed on any building, structure, dwelling, garage,
driveway or walkway in a random manner or without the prior permission of the
owner or occupant of the premises.
OWNER/OCCUPANT: Any person having charge, care, management, possession or
control of any building, structure, dwelling, property or part thereof; or any
person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, has legal or equitable
title to a building, structure or dwelling, the agent of said person, and any
person having management, possession or control of the building, structure or
dwelling including, but not limited to, a purchaser, mortgagee, receiver or
lessee in possession of any building, structure or dwelling.
PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land, including all buildings, structures
and dwellings thereon.
(Ord. 95-4-5G, 4-5-1995)
5-10-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL:
The owner and occupant of any premises shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the removal of any and all graffiti placed upon any building,
structure, dwelling, garage, driveway or walkway on the premises.
(Ord. 95-4-5G, 4-5-1995)
5-10-3: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 95-4-5G, 4-5-1995)
5-10-4: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; EXTENSION OF TIME:
   A.   The Director of Public Works shall be and hereby is authorized to serve
written notice to remove all graffiti located on any premises in the Village on
the owner and/or occupant of the premises. The owner or occupant shall remove
the graffiti within seventy two (72) hours of receipt of such written notice
unless the owner or occupant requests and receives an extension of time as
provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   The owner or occupant may make a request to the Director of Public
Works for an additional seven (7) days within which to remove the graffiti.
Such request must be made within seventy two (72) hours after receipt by the
owner or occupant of the initial written notice to remove the graffiti. If the
extension of time is granted, the owner or occupant must remove all graffiti
from the premises before the expiration of the additional seven (7) day period.
(Ord. 95-4-5G, 4-5-1995)
5-10-5: NONCOMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE; REMOVAL BY VILLAGE:
If all graffiti is not removed from the premises within seventy two (72) hours
of receipt of the written notice or within the seven (7) day extension of time,
if such extension was requested and granted, the Department of Public Works
shall have the right to enter the premises and remove the graffiti.
(Ord. 95-4-5G, 4-5-1995)
5-10-6: RECOVERY OF REMOVAL COSTS; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   The cost of removal of the graffiti incurred by the Village shall be
recoverable from the owner(s) of the premises, and the Village shall have a
lien on the premises for the cost of removal; provided, that within one (1)
year after the removal of graffiti from the premises by the Department of
Public Works, the Village files notice in the Office of the Cook County
Recorder that the Village has a lien for the costs and expenses the Village
incurred in removing the graffiti from the premises.
   B.   The notice of lien filed pursuant to subsection A of this section must
include:
      1.   A description of the premises sufficient for identification thereof;
      2.   The amount of the costs and expenses incurred by the Village in
removing graffiti from the premises; and
      3.   The date or dates when the costs and expenses were incurred by the
Village.
   C.   If, for any one parcel, the Village engaged in any removal activity on
more than one occasion during the course of one year, the Village may combine
any or all of the costs of each of those activities into a single notice of
lien.
   D.   The notice of lien must be personally served on, or sent by certified
mail to, the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the
property for the taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities. The
notice must be delivered or sent after the removal activities have been
performed, and must:
      1.   State the substance of section 5/11-20-15 of the Illinois Municipal
Code (65 ILCS 5/11-20-15) and this section;
      2.   Identify the underlying parcel, by common description (address of
parcel); and
      3.   Describe the removal activity.
   E.   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case of
mortgages or mechanic’s liens. A suit to foreclose such lien shall be commenced
within two years after the date of the notice of the lien filed.
   F.   Upon payment of the costs and expenses as set forth in the notice of
lien, the lien shall be released by the Village, and the Village shall tender a
release of the lien to the owner of the premises in a form which may be filed
of record in the Office of the Cook County Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord. 95-4-5G, 4-5-1995)
CHAPTER 11: NOISE CONTROL
Section
5-11-1:   Generally
5-11-1: GENERALLY:
   A.   Noisy Conditions Prohibited: No person shall make, continue, or cause
to be made or continued, any loud, excessive, raucous, or jarring noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
convenience, health, peace, or safety of any person within the area of
audibility within the Village.
   B.   Enumeration Of Noise Violations: The following acts, among others, are
hereby declared to be a nuisance and excessive noise in violation of this
section, but said enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      1.   Horns And Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street or public
place of the Village; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any
unreasonably loud and raucous sound; the sounding of any such device for
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of any horn, whistle, or
other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling
device where traffic is, for any reason, held up.
      2.   Music, Amplified Sound, Etc.: The playing, using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used, or operated, of any loudspeaker, bullhorn,
amplifier, public address system, instrument, drum, whistle, radio, television,
computer, phone, I-pad, I-pod, MP3, or other device, machine, or object, for
the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace,
quiet or comfort of a neighboring person or persons, or with louder volume than
is necessary for the convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in
the room, chamber, vehicle, or outdoor area in which or where such device,
machine, or object is played, used, or operated. Such noise between the hours
of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., in such manner as
to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more, measured
vertically or horizontally, from the location of the instrument, device,
machine, or object shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
      3.   Yelling, Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing
outdoors at any time or place in a manner which annoys or disturbs the peace,
quiet, comfort, or repose of any person in any office, or in any dwelling,
hotel, or other type of residence, or of any person in the vicinity. Such noise
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      4.   Animals: The keeping of any animal or bird caged or tied up in any
yard, enclosure, stable, house or other place within the Village which, by
barking, howling, crying, singing, or causing frequent or long continued loud
and raucous noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of persons in the
vicinity.
      5.   Steam Whistles: The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler.
      6.   Engine Exhausts: The discharge into the open air of exhaust of any
steam engine, gasoline engine, stationary internal combustion engine, or other
engine, or other kind or type of engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle, except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud, raucous
or explosive noises therefrom.
      7.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: The use of any wagon, cart, automobile,
truck, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of repair or loaded in such manner
or with material of such nature as to create loud and raucous grating,
grinding, rattling, or other noises.
      8.   Noises In Residential Areas And Noise Sensitive Zones: The creation
of loud and raucous noise in connection with loading or unloading of any
vehicle, or the opening or destruction of bales, boxes, crates, containers,
garbage cans, dumpsters or similar objects, without exercising reasonable care
to limit such noise and to confine the same, in such a manner as to cause a
noise disturbance within a residential district or noise sensitive zone.
      9.   Noise Sensitive Zones: The creation of any loud, excessive, or
raucous noise in the vicinity of any school, institution of learning, church,
court, hospital, nursing home, government office, or other noise sensitive zone
while the same is in use, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of
such places, or which disturbs or unduly annoys persons using such places;
provided, that conspicuous signs are displayed in the vicinity of any such
places indicating the place is a noise sensitive zone. The Superintendent of
Public Safety is authorized to prepare recommendations to be approved by the
Village Corporate Authorities for the designation of noise sensitive zones
which contain noise sensitive activities.
      10.   Blowers, Fans: The operation of any noise creating blower or power
fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes loud and
raucous noises due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the
noise from such blower or fan is muffled, and such engine is equipped with a
muffler device to deaden such noise.
      11.   Emergency Signal Devices: No person shall intentionally sound or
permit the sounding outdoors of any fire alarm, burglar alarm, siren or similar
stationary emergency signaling device except in the following instances:
         a.   For emergency purposes; or
         b.   For testing. Each time such a test is performed, the test shall
use only the minimum cycle test time and in no case shall exceed four (4)
minutes nor shall it occur before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or after eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   C.   Exceptions: The following shall not constitute a noise violation under
this section: 1) any noise intended to be a danger or emergency warning
including, but not limited to, a backup beeper for a vehicle, a fire or smoke
alarm, or the periodic testing of any such warning noise; 2) any noise created
by any construction activities permitted by the Village or any other
governmental entity; 3) any noise created by the standard operation of mass
transit including, but not limited to, airplanes, trains, or public buses; 4)
any noise created by the standard operation of garbage, refuse, or recycling
collection; 5) any noise created by a peace officer, public employee, or
emergency service provider while engaged in the performance of his duties; and
6) any noise permitted by a director of a Village entertainment facility during
an authorized public amusement event at a Village entertainment venue.
   D.   Violation Deemed Disorderly Conduct: Any person who is cited for
committing a noise violation under this section while causing or participating
in any disorderly, noisy, or riotous assemblages of persons in public places
within the Village may also be cited for the offense of disorderly conduct
under this subsection. Additionally, any person who fails to obey a lawful
order of dispersal by a person known to him to be a peace officer under
circumstances where three (3) or more persons are committing such acts
constituting a noise violation, disorderly conduct, or both, may also be cited
for the offense of disorderly conduct under this subsection. Any person who is
cited for a noise violation and disorderly conduct under this section shall be
cited for each separate offense, and each separate offense shall be subject to
the penalties and remedies set forth by subsection E of this section.
   E.   Penalty; Remedies:
      1.   A person who commits a violation under this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each separate offense.
      2.   In addition to any penalty or fine provided, all other legal or
equitable remedies shall be available to the Village including, but not limited
to, injunctive relief and summary abatement of a public nuisance. Costs
incurred by the Village to enjoin or abate any such public nuisance under this
section, including all reasonable attorney fees and court costs, shall be
reimbursed by the person who is found liable for a violation of this section.
      3.   The Superintendent of Public Safety may also require any person
found liable for a violation of this section to submit a compliance plan,
indicating measures taken or to be taken to prevent similar violations in the
future. Any such request must be responded to within thirty (30) days, or such
other time period as set forth in the request. Failure to respond as requested
shall be deemed an additional offense. If a person has submitted such a
compliance plan, and the compliance plan has been approved by the
Superintendent, that person shall comply with the approved compliance plan
unless an alternate plan is approved by the Superintendent. Failure to comply
with the approved compliance plan shall be deemed an additional offense.
   F.   Other Actions Or Remedies: Nothing in this section shall be construed
to impair any cause of action or legal remedy therefor of any person or the
public for injury or damage arising from the emission of noise in such place or
manner as to constitute a common law nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
TITLE 6: PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
6-1-1:   Organization Of Department
6-1-2:   Community Affairs Division
6-1-3:   Minimum Requirements For Original Appointment
6-1-4:   Mandatory Retirement Age For Full-Time Officers
6-1-5:   Appointments, Probationary Periods, Promotions And Suspensions
6-1-6:   Residency Requirement For Full-Time Officers And Employees
6-1-7:   Duties And Functions Of Department
6-1-8:   Compliance With Department Rules And Regulations
6-1-9:   Conduct Of Personnel
6-1-10:   Salary Level Of Rehired Officers
6-1-11:   Auxiliary Public Safety Officers
6-1-12:   Off Duty Employment And Business Ownership Of Officers
6-1-13:   Public Safety Officers' Pension Fund Adopted
6-1-14:   Village Jail
6-1-15:   Protection Of Department Dogs And Horses
6-1-16:   Requirements And Prohibitions Of Public
6-1-1: ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   There shall be an executive department of the Village to be known as
the Department of Public Safety. The Department of Public Safety shall have
three (3) bureaus: the Bureau of Patrol, Bureau of Fire Suppression and Bureau
of Support Services. Within each bureau shall be divisions, sections, teams and
units, determined by the Superintendent of Public Safety. The Superintendent
shall prepare and propose an organizational chart to the Village President
annually.
   B.   Whenever, within this Code or any other ordinance, regulation or rule
applicable to the Village, there occur the references to “Police Department” or
“Fire Department”, such references shall be understood to mean and refer to the
Department of Public Safety. Whenever within this Code or any other ordinance,
rule or regulation applicable to the Village, there appear references to police
officers or firefighters, such references shall refer to the equivalent public
safety officer of the Department of Public Safety.
   C.   1.   The Village President shall appoint a Superintendent of Public
Safety. The Superintendent shall be appointed by the Village President from the
ranks of the current sworn officers of the Public Safety Department who have
been promoted to the rank of lieutenant by the Board of Public Safety
Commissioners.
      2.   The Superintendent of Public Safety shall have control and
supervision, subject to the order and direction of the Village President, of
the Department of Public Safety and shall determine which Public Safety
Department bureau requires divisions, units, teams or sections. The
Superintendent of Public Safety shall determine the number of public safety
officers and employees assigned to each of the Public Safety Department
divisions, sections, teams or units within one of the three (3) department
bureaus.
      3.   Whenever, within this Code or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation applicable to the Village, there appear references to the Director,
Superintendent, Chief of Public Safety, Police Chief or Fire Chief, all
references shall be understood to mean the Superintendent of Public Safety.
   D.   Deputy chiefs shall be appointed from the ranks of current sworn
officers of the Public Safety Department who have been appointed to the rank of
lieutenant by the Board of Public Safety Commissioners. The Bureaus of Patrol,
Fire Suppression and Support Services shall be under the command of a Deputy
Chief who shall be recommended by the Superintendent of the Department, with
approval of the Village President.
   E.   Commanders shall be appointed from the ranks of current sworn officers
of the Public Safety Department who have been appointed to the rank of
lieutenant by the Board of Public Safety Commissioners. The authorized number
of commanders shall be established in a Department of Public Safety
Organizational Chart prepared by the Superintendent of Public Safety and
approved annually by the Village Board.
   F.   Lieutenants shall be appointed by the Board of Public Safety
Commissioners. The authorized number of lieutenants shall be established in a
Department of Public Safety Organizational Chart prepared by the Superintendent
of Public Safety and approved annually by the Village Board.
   G.   Sergeants shall be appointed from the rank of current sworn public
safety officers of the Public Safety Department. The authorized number of
sergeants shall be established in a Department of Public Safety Organizational
Chart prepared by the Superintendent of Public Safety and approved annually by
the Village Board.
   H.   Public safety officers shall be appointed by the Board of Public Safety
Commissioners. The authorized number of public safety officers shall be
established in a Department of Public Safety Organizational Chart prepared by
the Superintendent of Public Safety and approved annually by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2014-5-14E, 5-14-2014)
Editor’s note:
   The effective date of section 6-1-1 is May 1, 2014
6-1-2: COMMUNITY AFFAIRS DIVISION:
   A.   Division Created: The Community Affairs Division is hereby created. The
Division shall fall under the Office of the Superintendent of Public Safety and
commanded by a Commander of the Public Safety Department. Generally, the
Division provides public presentations, information and facilitates community
fire and crime prevention efforts. It also works closely with schools,
residents, hotels, and businesses. Community Affairs is also responsible for
the Citizens Public Safety Academy, police and fire training classes, community
alerts, and social media, including the Public Safety Department Facebook,
Twitter and Instagram page. Tours, safety presentations and recruitment efforts
also fall under this Division.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   In addition to the duties set forth in subsection A above, the
duties and responsibilities of the Community Affairs Division shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Investigate situations which come to the attention of the Village
where Village residents may be in need of or may benefit from educational and
social service programs and to refer the persons involved who are in need or
who may benefit from educational or social services to an agency or other
source where they may obtain such services.
         b.   Act as a coordinator and referral source for persons in the
Village who are seeking assistance by referring such persons to educational and
social service programs where they can obtain the assistance they are seeking.
         c.   When appropriate, provide assistance to existing agencies and
programs which provide educational and social services in providing such
services to residents of the Village.
         d.   Assess the need for additional educational and social services
within the Village and report the results of the assessments to the
Superintendent of Public Safety and to the President and Board of Trustees.
         e.   Make recommendations to the Superintendent of Public Safety and
to the Village Corporate Authorities as to how educational and social services
may be provided to residents of the Village more effectively and more
efficiently.
      2.   As used in this subsection, the phrase “educational and social
services” includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   Educational classes designed to teach English as a second
language;
         b.   Classes designed to assist people in meeting the requirements to
become a United States citizen;
         c.   Prenatal care programs;
         d.   Drug awareness and education programs;
         e.   Youth outreach programs designed to discourage persons from
joining or otherwise becoming involved in gangs and/or criminal activities;
         f.   Programs designed to provide assistance to persons who are living
in overcrowded housing conditions, including, finding new housing for such
persons;
         g.   Programs relating to domestic violence; and
         h.   Programs which provide job training and/or opportunities for
persons to become gainfully employed.
(Ord. 97-8-6E, 8-6-1997)
6-1-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT:
   A.   The following requirements shall be met by all persons seeking to take
the examination for original appointment by the Village Board of Public Safety
Commissioners as a public safety officer of the Department of Public Safety:
      1.   The person must be a citizen of the United States of America and
must have been a citizen for not less than one year prior to the first date on
the last day for filing an application to take the examination; and
      2.   The person must be at least twenty (20) years old and not more than
thirty five (35) years old on the first date on which the examination is to be
given; provided, that:
         a.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) years of age will not be
eligible to be sworn in as a public safety officer until after they are twenty
one (21) years old.
         b.   A person who is more than thirty five (35) years old but less
than forty (40) years old shall be eligible to take the examination for
original appointment if the person on the first date of the examination is
employed by the Village as an auxiliary public safety officer with at least
five (5) years of continuous service prior to the first date of the
examination.
         c.   A person who is more than thirty five (35) years old shall be
eligible to take the examination for original appointment if the person has
previously been employed as a police officer or firefighter in a regularly
constituted police or fire department; and
      3.   The person must, on the last day for filing an application to take
the examination, either:
         a.   (1)   Be a high school graduate or have passed a high school
graduation equivalency test;
            (2)   Be currently employed by the Village as an auxiliary public
safety officer;
            (3)   Have been employed as an auxiliary public safety officer for
not less than two (2) continuous years; and
            (4)   Have worked at least two hundred fifty (250) hours as an
auxiliary public safety officer; or
         b.   (1)   Be a high school graduate or have passed a high school
graduation equivalency test;
            (2)   Be employed by the Village as communications officer for the
Public Safety Department; and
            (3)   Have been employed as a communications officer and/or an
auxiliary public safety officer for not less than two (2) years; or
         c.   Completed not less than forty five (45) credit hours (or the
equivalent) with an overall grade point average of not less 2.0 (or the
equivalent) at an accredited college or university; provided, that no person
who qualifies to take the examination on the basis of college or university
credits earned shall be eligible to be sworn in as a public safety officer
unless such person has, at the time of the swearing in, completed not less than
sixty (60) credit hours (or the equivalent) with an overall grade point average
of not less 2.0 (or the equivalent) at an accredited college or university; or
         d.   Served at least two (2) years of full-time active military
service in a branch of the armed forces of the United States and have received
an honorable discharge.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section supersede and replace
the rules and regulations of the Board of Public Safety Commissioners of the
Village with regard to the requirements to be met by persons seeking original
appoint to the office of public safety officer of the Village.
   C.   In the event that there is a conflict between the provisions of this
section and the provisions of any rules or regulation of the Board of Public
Safety Commissioners of the Village, or any prior ordinance enacted by the
Corporate Authorities of the Village, the provisions of this section shall
govern and control.
(Ord. 2018-2-14B, 2-14-2018)
6-1-4: MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE FOR FULL-TIME OFFICERS:
Effective June 5, 2002, a full-time, regular public safety officer employed by
the Village shall be required to retire as full-time, regular public safety
officer upon reaching the age of sixty (60).
(Ord. 2002-6-5A, 6-5-2002)
6-1-5: APPOINTMENTS, PROBATIONARY PERIODS, PROMOTIONS AND SUSPENSIONS:
   A.   Appointment, Promotion And Suspension Of Regular Officers: All regular
officers of the Department of Public Safety, excluding lateral transfers, shall
be appointed by the Board of Public Safety Commissioners. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Superintendent of the Department of Public Safety and/or a
Department Director, Deputy Superintendents and Commanders shall be appointed
by the Village President and serve at the pleasure of the Village President.
All other promotions, in rank, removal from office, or other forms of
discipline established by ordinance for all public safety officers shall be
made by the Board of Public Safety Commissioners. Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to prevent the Superintendent/Director or his/her designee
from suspending without pay a regular officer for a period of not more than
five (5) days.
   B.   Appointments And Probationary Periods For Lieutenants: Any person
employed as a full-time Public Safety Officer with the Village of Rosemont
Public Safety Department shall be required to serve a minimum of one (1) year
in the Bureau of Fire Suppression and a minimum of one (1) year in the Bureau
of Patrol and to also have successfully completed the probationary period
following his or her initial appointment as a Public Safety Officer in order
for that person to be considered for promotion to the rank of Lieutenant within
the Public Safety Department.
   C.   Probationary Periods For Original Appointments: All persons, other than
lateral transfers, receiving an original appointment to the rank of Public
Safety Officer with the Public Safety Department shall serve a probationary
period of two (2) years, during which time they may be dismissed without any
cause by the Superintendent of Public Safety.
   D.   Lateral Transfers: For the purpose of this section, a "lateral
transfer" shall mean an individual who: (1) meets the minimum requirements for
original appointment to the rank of Public Safety Officer and all other
eligibility requirements established by the Board of Public Safety
Commissioners or this Code for newly hired employees; and (2) either possesses:
      1.   All certifications and qualifications required by the Illinois Law
Enforcement Training and Standards Board and has previously been employed as a
full-time certified police officer; or
      2.   Equivalent qualifications from another agency, and obtains a waiver
from the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board to serve as a
full-time police officer, and has previously been employed as a full-time
certified police officer; or
      3.   All certifications required by Illinois law to be employed as a
firefighter/paramedic (EMT) and who is or who has previously been employed as a
full-time firefighter/paramedic in the State of Illinois.
   E.   Appointment Of Lateral Transfers: Whenever it has been determined that
there is a present need to appoint one or more Lateral Transfers to fill a
vacancy in the authorized number of Public Safety Officers, the following
process shall be followed:
      1.   The Director/Superintendent shall cause a notice to be posted of the
Village's interest in seeking applications from eligible lateral transfers for
positions with the Village's Department of Public Safety.
      2.   The Director/Superintendent, Deputy Superintendents, and the
Department's Chief of Staff shall review and interview applicants, conduct
background checks and conduct psychological testing of potential lateral
transfer candidates, and recommend lateral transfer candidates to the Board of
Public Safety Commissioners for consideration.
      3.   The Board of Public Safety Commissioners shall review the background
checks, psychological testing and recommendations of the Department of Public
Safety; evaluate and assess the lateral transfer candidates; and recommend the
appointment of lateral transfer candidates to the Village President.
      4.   The Village President shall review the qualifications of the lateral
transfer candidates recommended to him by the Board of Public Safety
Commissioners and, if deemed to be in the best interests of the Village and the
operation of the Public Safety Department, appoint one or more of the lateral
transfer candidates as a Public Safety Officer for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days during which time the Village President's appointment shall be
presented to the Village's Board of Trustees for approval. Upon receipt of the
approval of the Village's Board of Trustees, the lateral transfer candidate
shall be appointed as a Public Safety Officer. The appointment of a lateral
transfer pursuant to this section shall take precedence over any names
appearing on any eligibility list developed by the Board of Public Safety
Commissioners.
   F.   Probationary Period For Lateral Transfers: All persons receiving an
appointment as a lateral transfer shall be required to serve a probationary
period of three (3) years during which time the they may be dismissed without
any cause by the Superintendent of Public Safety. During this three (3) year
probationary period, the lateral transfer shall obtain all the required
firefighter/paramedic certifications required to serve in the Bureau of Fire
Suppression that the lateral transfer does not already possess and serve a
minimum of one (1) year in the Bureau of Fire Suppression. During this three
(3) year probationary period, the lateral transfer shall also obtain all the
required certifications to serve in the Bureau of Patrol the lateral transfer
does not already possess and serve a minimum of one (1) year in the Bureau of
Patrol.
(Ord. 85-7-3B, 7-3-1985; amd. Ord. 2009-3-4G, 3-4-2009; Ord. 2021-1-11A, 1-11-
2021)
6-1-6: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR Full-time OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
Each full-time officer and each full-time employee of the Department of Public
Safety of the Village must be an actual, bona fide resident of the Village,
with a permanent abode therein, at all times during his or her employment as
such officer or employee and as a condition thereof. This residency requirement
applies to all present and to all future full-time officers and full-time
employees of the Public Safety Department. Noncompliance with the residency
requirement set forth herein shall constitute grounds for immediate discharge
from the Public Safety Department and from the service and employment of the
Village.
(Ord. 77-10-19, 10-19-1977)
6-1-7: DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   General Duties And Functions: The Department of Public Safety and all
personnel thereof shall have the following duties and functions:
      1.   To see to the enforcement of this Code, all other ordinances of the
Village, and of all statutes effective in the Village, to preserve order and
prevent infractions of the law, and to arrest violators thereof. To this end,
all personnel of the Department of Public Safety are hereby declared to be
conservators of the peace;
      2.   To extinguish accidental or destructive fires and to prevent the
occurrence or spread of fire;
      3.   To provide effective emergency paramedic services to persons in the
Village; and
      4.   To carry out all functions necessary for the support of those
preceding and all other functions relating to the safety of the public as the
Board of Trustees may direct.
   B.   Serve As Witness; Fees: All personnel of the Department of Public
Safety shall appear as a witness whenever this is necessary in a prosecution
for any violation of this Code or of a Village ordinance or any State or
Federal law. But no such person shall receive any witness fees for service as a
witness in any action or suit to which the Village is a party. All fees due for
such service shall, if paid, be turned over to the Finance Director who shall
deposit the same in the Village Treasury.
   C.   Arrest Powers: The public safety officers of the Village are severally
authorized to arrest, with or without process as provided by law, or on view,
any person who may break the peace or violate this Code or any of the
ordinances of the Village, and to take such person forthwith before any judge
of the Circuit Court of Cook County, or in case such arrest is made in the
night or on Sunday, to detain such person in custody overnight or over Sunday
in the Village Jail or any other safe place until such person can be brought
before such judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County.
(Ord. 77-12-7D, 12-7-1977)
   D.   Service Of Process: All personnel of the Department of Public Safety
shall be authorized to serve writs, summons and other process, but no public
safety officer shall serve any such process except on the order of the Deputy
Chief of the Bureau of Patrol or the Superintendent of Public Safety.
(Ord. 85-7-3B, 7-3-1985)
6-1-8: COMPLIANCE WITH DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Superintendent may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the personnel of the Department of Public Safety as he
shall see fit. Such rules, when approved by the President and the Board of
Trustees, shall be binding on the members. Until such time as new rules are
prescribed, the rules previously adopted for the Police and Fire Departments of
the Village shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 77-12-7D, 12-7-1977)
6-1-9: CONDUCT OF PERSONNEL:
It shall be the duty of all personnel of the Department of Public Safety to
conduct him or herself in a proper and law abiding manner and to avoid the use
of any unnecessary force.
(Ord. 77-12-7D, 12-7-1977)
6-1-10: SALARY LEVEL OF REHIRED OFFICERS:
   A.   Whenever a public safety officer of the Village resigns and then is
later re-employed by the Village as a public safety officer, such a public
safety officer shall, for the purposes of determining his salary and vacation
entitlement after re-employment, receive credit for his or her prior years of
service as a Village public safety officer.
   B.   Except as set forth in this section, a public safety officer who
resigns and then is later re-employed by the Village shall not be entitled to
receive any benefits or other consideration based on the time he served as a
Village public safety officer prior to his resignation and re-employment
without the prior written approval of the Superintendent of Public Safety.
(Ord. 85-11-6B, 11-6-1985)
   C.   This section does not require the Village to re-employ as a public
safety officer any public safety officer who resigns his position nor does it
entitle any former public safety officer of the Village to any special priority
should such a public safety officer seek re-employment with the Village.
(Ord. 85-10-2, 10-2-1985)
6-1-11: AUXILIARY PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment:
      1.   The Village President, if he deems it advisable, may appoint special
public safety officer(s), also known as auxiliary public safety officers, with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
      2.   Every person appointed as a special public safety officer shall have
issued to him a certificate of appointment expiring on April 30 or such as
designated on the certificate and, in addition thereto, a star or emblem of
office.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Persons appointed special public safety officers shall possess the
powers designated by the President and Board of Trustees.
      2.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give special public
safety officers the right to carry weapons except when they are so assigned by
the Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Support Services.
      3.   The Corporate Authorities of the Village do hereby ratify, confirm
and direct that auxiliary public safety officers employed by the Village are
not to exercise any powers that they would have as conservators of the peace,
except as otherwise provided by law.
      4.   Special public safety officers shall be subject to all the
provisions of this Code and all rules and regulations for regular public safety
officers.
(Ord. 85-7-3B, 7-3-1985; Ord. 2021-10-11B, 10-11-2021)
      3.   The Corporate Authorities of the Village do hereby ratify, confirm
and direct that auxiliary public safety officers employed by the Village are
not to exercise any powers that they would have as conservators of the peace
which they would not otherwise have if they were not conservators of the peace.
(Ord. 2006-12-6G, 12-6-2006)
      4.   Special public safety officers shall be subject to all the
provisions of this Code and all rules and regulations for regular public safety
officers.
(Ord. 85-7-3B, 7-3-1985)
   C.   Medical And Hospitalization Benefits: Those auxiliary public safety
officers who hold the rank of lieutenant or captain and who also have been
employed in an administrative office position with the Bureau of Support
Services of the Public Safety Department for a period of not less than six (6)
continuous years shall be entitled to receive the same medical and
hospitalization benefits as regular full-time Village employees and shall be
entitled to participate in the health insurance programs established by the
Village for regular full-time Village employees on the same terms and
conditions as regular full-time Village employees; provided, that such
auxiliary public safety officers are regularly assigned to work not less than
eight (8) hours on five (5) days during each week except for vacation periods,
holidays and sick days.
(Ord. 90-7-11B, 7-11-1990)
   D.   Service Charges:
      1.   Private Entities: The rates to be charged for Village provided
auxiliary services to private entities including, but not necessarily limited
to, hotels, motels, the AMC Rosemont 18 and the Fashion Outlets of Chicago
(FOC) shall be as follows:
 
                    Rate Per Hour   July 4; Thanksgiving Day; New Years Eve
Auxiliary Service   (Per Employee)  Christmas Day             (Per Employee)
                                    (Per Employee)
Traffic control/    $40.00 per hour $ 60.00 per hour          $ 80.00 per hour
assistance
Security            40.00 per hour  60.00 per hour            80.00 per hour
Fire inspections    40.00 per hour  60.00 per hour            80.00 per hour
Pyrotechnic related 90.00 per hour  135.00 per hour           180.00 per hour
services
Other               40.00 per hour  60.00 per hour            80.00 per hour
 
      2.   Governmental Entities/Agencies: The rates to be charged for Village
provided auxiliary services to governmental entities/agencies (other than the
Village of Rosemont) shall be as follows:
 
                      Rate Per Hour   July 4; Thanksgiving New Years Eve
Auxiliary Service     (Per Employee)  Day; Christmas Day   (Per Employee)
                                      (Per Employee)
Traffic control/      $30.00 per hour $ 45.00 per hour     $ 60.00 per hour
assistance
Party security        24.00 per hour  36.00 per hour       48.00 per hour
Fire inspections      30.00 per hour  45.00 per hour       60.00 per hour
Pyrotechnic related   90.00 per hour  135.00 per hour      180.00 per hour
services
Park district picture 16.00 per hour  24.00 per hour       32.00 per hour
permits
Other                 30.00 per hour  45.00 per hour       60.00 per hour
 
(Ord. 2011-12-14B, 12-14-2011, eff. 1-12-2012)
6-1-12: OFF DUTY EMPLOYMENT AND BUSINESS OWNERSHIP OF OFFICERS:
A person who is employed by the Village as a regular public safety officer, as
an auxiliary public safety, or who is a retired public safety officer employed
by the Village in a supervisory position with the Department of Public Safety:
   A.   Shall be permitted to be employed by a corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association, sole proprietorship or any other entity which has a
contract with the Village, unless there is another Village ordinance or unless
there is a rule or regulation of the Public Safety Department which prohibits
or restricts such employment.
   B.   Shall be permitted to have an ownership interest in a corporation,
partnership, unincorporated association, sole proprietorship or any other
entity which has a contract with the Village, unless there is another Village
ordinance or unless there is a rule or regulation of the Public Safety
Department which prohibits or restricts the person from having such an
ownership interest; provided, that the existence and extent of such ownership
interest is disclosed to the Village Clerk or to the Corporate Authorities of
the Village. In the event disclosure is made to the Village Clerk, the Village
Clerk shall inform the Corporate Authorities of the Village of the disclosure.
   C.   Shall not be subject to the restrictions contained in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-55-10 and 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/3.
(Ord. 2001-1-10K, 1-10-2001)
6-1-13: PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS' PENSION FUND ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by reference the Public Safety Officers' Pension Fund
for the benefit of members of the Department of Public Safety.
(2019 Code)
6-1-14: VILLAGE JAIL:
   A.   The Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Patrol, or his designee, shall be the
keeper of the Village Jail, and shall have custody of all persons incarcerated
therein. He shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by
law or as may be required by the President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   In all cases of arrest on view for a violation of this Code or any of
the ordinances of the Village in which detention in custody of the person so
arrested shall be authorized by this Code or by any of such ordinances, it
shall be the duty of the keeper of the Village Jail, or other place of
confinement provided for violators of such Code or ordinances, to receive, and
he is hereby authorized and empowered to make, such arrests, of any person for
safekeeping until such person can be safely brought before a judge of the
Circuit Court of Cook County and be tried for such violation prescribed by this
Code or by ordinance.
(Ord. 85-7-3B, 7-3-1985)
6-1-15: PROTECTION OF DEPARTMENT DOGS AND HORSES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   POLICE DOG: Any dog that is used by a public safety officer of the Village
of Rosemont in the performance of the public safety officer's duties and any
dog which is owned by the Village of Rosemont.
   POLICE HORSE: Any horse used by a public safety officer of the Village of
Rosemont in the performance of the public safety officer's duties and any horse
which is owned by the Village of Rosemont.
   B.   Teasing, Striking Or Tampering With Police Dogs Or Horses Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously taunt,
torment, tease, beat or strike a police dog or horse.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to meddle with a police dog or horse
while the dog or horse is being utilized by a Village public safety officer in
the performance of the officer’s duties.
      3.    It is unlawful for any person to administer desensitizing drugs,
chemicals or substances to a police dog or horse or to subject a police dog or
horse to a desensitizing drug, chemical or substance without the written
permission of the Superintendent or Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Patrol.
   C.   Injuring Or Killing Police Dog Or Horses Prohibited: It is unlawful for
any person to wilfully or maliciously torture, mutilate, injure, disable,
poison or kill a police dog or horse; provided, that a public safety officer
may perform euthanasia on a police dog or horse in an emergency when delay
would cause the police dog or horse undue suffering and pain. The provisions of
this subsection shall not prevent a licensed veterinarian from performing
euthanasia on a police dog or horse when authorized by the Superintendent or
Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Patrol.
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation.
(Ord. 97-4-2J, 4-2-1997)
6-1-16: REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS OF PUBLIC:
   A.   Aid To Department: Every person above the age of twenty one (21) years
who shall be present at a fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer in
command at such fire and shall render all the assistance in his power and in
such manner as he may be directed in the extinguishment of the fire and in
removal of and protection of property, and any person refusing to obey such
orders shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00); provided, that no person shall be bound to obey such
officer unless such officer's official character shall be known or made known
to such persons.
   B.   Unlawful Use Of Fire Equipment: Any person who shall use any fire
engine, hose cart or any other apparatus belonging to the Village for any
private purpose other than the extinguishment of fires, or whoever shall remove
the same or any part thereof from its place of deposit or, having the control
thereof, shall permit such engine, hose cart or other apparatus to be used for
any private purpose other than aforesaid shall, upon conviction, be fined not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
   C.   Distance From Fire Apparatus And Fires; Driving Over Fire Hose: It
shall be unlawful for any automobile, truck or other vehicle to pass from
behind or to follow a fire truck within three hundred feet (300') when such
fire truck is on its way to a fire, or to drive or park an automobile, truck or
other vehicle within a block of any fire, or for any person to drive an
automobile, truck or other vehicle over or across any line of hose in use and
lying across any street in the Village, and any violator thereof shall, upon
conviction, be fined in any sum not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   D.   Damaging, Interference With Fire Equipment: Any person who shall
wilfully or negligently break, deface or in any manner injure any fire engine,
hose equipment or other fire apparatus belonging to the Village, or shall
remove any screw, bolt, nut or part of such engine or other apparatus, or in
any manner interfere with the working or use of the same when being used by the
proper person or authority shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 77-12-7D, 12-7-1977)
CHAPTER 2: CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
6-2-1:   Civil Defense Organization Created; Composition
6-2-2:   Civil Defense Director; Appointment; Duties; Successor
6-2-3:   Powers and Duties Of Civil Defense Organization
6-2-4:   Mobile Support Team; Creation; Composition; Duties; Compensation
6-2-5:   Mutual Aid Agreements
6-2-6:   Declaration Of An Emergency
6-2-7:   Civil Defense Organization Compensation
6-2-8:   Reimbursement For Expenses
6-2-9:   Expenses Of Civil Defense
6-2-10:   Oath Required Of Civil Defense Members And Workers
6-2-11:   Location Of Office For Civil Defense Organization
6-2-12:   Appropriation And Tax For Civil Defense Purposes
6-2-1: CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION CREATED; COMPOSITION:
   A.   There is hereby created the Local Municipal Civil Defense Organization
to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from
natural disaster, in accordance with the Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951, as
amended.
   B.   This Civil Defense Organization shall consist of the Civil Defense
Director and additional members to be selected by the Director.
(1971 Code § 9-1; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-2: CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES; SUCCESSOR:
   A.   The Director of the Civil Defense shall be appointed by the President
and Board of Trustees and shall serve until removed by the same.
   B.   The Civil Defense Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training, and operation of the Civil Defense
Organization, subject to the direction and control of the President as provided
by statute.
   C.   In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve
the Civil Defense Director, the President or any person designated by him,
shall be and act as Director until a new appointment is made as provided in
this Code.
(1971 Code § 9-2; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION:
The Civil Defense Organization shall perform such civil defense functions
within the Village as shall be prescribed in and by the State civil defense
plan and program prepared by the Governor, and such orders, rules and
regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor, and in addition shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any municipal aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality
or quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the Illinois Civil Defense
Act of 1951, as amended.
(1971 Code § 9-3; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-4: MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM; CREATION; COMPOSITION; DUTIES; COMPENSATION:
   A.   All or any members of the Civil Defense Organization may be designated
as members of a mobile support team created by the State Director of Civil
Defense as provided by law. The leader of such mobile support team shall be
designated by the Director of the Civil Defense.
   B.   Any member of a mobile support team is a Village employee or officer
while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director of Civil
Defense, shall receive, the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights,
and immunities-incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is
not a paid officer or employee of the Village, while so serving, shall receive
from the State reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(1971 Code § 9-4; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-5: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The Director of the Civil Defense may negotiate mutual aid agreements with
other municipal corporation or political subdivisions of the State, but no such
agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the Board of
Trustees and by the State Director of Civil Defense.
(1971 Code § 9-5; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-6: DECLARATION OF AN EMERGENCY:
If the Governor declares that a civil defense emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of Illinois of major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action or from natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Civil Defense
Organization to cooperate fully with the State Office of Civil Defense and with
the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(1971 Code § 9-6; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-7: CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION COMPENSATION:
Members of the Civil Defense Organization who are paid employees or officers of
the Village, if called for training by the State Director of Civil Defense,
shall receive for time spent in such training the same rate of pay as is
attached to the position held; members who are not such Village employees or
officers shall receive for such training time such compensation as may be
established by the Board of Trustees.
(1971 Code § 9-7; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-8: REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES:
The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the State to the Village for expenses incident to training
members of the civil defense, compensation for services and expenses of members
of a mobile support team while serving outside the Village in response to a
call by the Governor or State Director of Civil Defense, as provided by law,
and any other reimbursement made by the State incident to civil defense
activities, as provided by law.
(1971 Code § 9-8; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-9: EXPENSES OF CIVIL DEFENSE:
   A.   The Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the Director of Civil
Defense, authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the Village in
a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of
any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and
safety, protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the
case of such disaster, or from natural disaster.
   B.   In the event of enemy caused or natural disaster, the Director of Civil
Defense is authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment, or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to Village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951, as amended, provided
that, if the Board of Trustees meets at such times he shall act subject to the
directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(1971 Code § 9-9; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-10: OATH REQUIRED OF CIVIL DEFENSE MEMBERS AND WORKERS:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Civil Defense
Organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the Civil Defense Director:
“I, ____________________, local Civil Defense Director of the Civil Defense
Organization of the Village of Rosemont, do solemnly swear that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter, and I do further swear
that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time
as I am affiliated with the Village of Rosemont, I will not advocate nor become
a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence.”
(1971 Code § 9-10; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-11: LOCATION OF OFFICE FOR CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION:
The President is authorized to designate space in the Village Hall or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Board of Trustees for the Civil
Defense Organization as its office.
(1971 Code § 9-11; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
6-2-12: APPROPRIATION AND TAX FOR CIVIL DEFENSE PURPOSES:
The Board of Trustees may have an appropriation for civil defense purposes in
the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for civil defense purposes
only, a tax not to exceed five cents ($.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00)
of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes,
as provided by the Illinois Civil Defense Act of 1951, as amended, provided,
however, that the amount collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed
twenty five cents ($.25) per capita.
(1971 Code § 9-12; amd. Ord. 69-10-21A)
CHAPTER 3: AMBULANCE SERVICE BUSINESSES
Section
6-3-1:   License Required
6-3-2:   Inspections Of Vehicle, Premises And Applicant
6-3-3:   Insurances Required; Bond In Lieu
6-3-4:   Standards For Equipment And Personnel
6-3-5:   Consent Of Sick Or Injured Persons
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1B of this Code for license fee; see subsection
3-10-1L of this Code for ambulance service charges
6-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or maintain any ambulance
without first obtaining a license therefor.
   B.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall entitle the licensee
to engage in the business of operating an ambulance service only at and from
the store, room or place designated in the license; and if the applicant for
the license shall desire to engage in said business at more than one store,
room or place in the Village, the applicant shall be permitted to do so only
upon payment of an additional license fee.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
6-3-2: INSPECTIONS OF VEHICLE, PREMISES AND APPLICANT:
   A.   No vehicle shall be licensed as an ambulance until it has been
inspected under the direction of the Superintendent of Public Safety and found
to be in a safe operating condition.
   B.   Further, the Superintendent of Public Safety shall cause an
investigation of the premises and ambulance vehicle and vehicles named and
described in the application for the purpose of determining the fitness and
suitability of the premises and vehicle for such business from a sanitary
standpoint, and that ambulance equipment complies with all the requirements set
out in this chapter.
   C.   In case the applicant is, at the time of such application, operating or
maintaining an ambulance, the Superintendent of Public Safety shall make an
investigation to determine whether or not the applicant has complied with the
State laws and provisions of this Code relating to health, sanitation and
safety.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
6-3-3: INSURANCES REQUIRED; BOND IN LIEU:
   A.   Every ambulance owner shall carry public liability and property damage
insurance and workers' compensation insurance for employees with solvent and
responsible insurers, authorized to transact insurance business in the State of
Illinois and qualified to assume the risks for amounts hereinafter set forth
under the laws of Illinois, to secure payment of any loss or damage resulting
from occurrences arising out of or caused by the operation or use of any of the
ambulances belonging to the licensee.
   B.   The public liability insurance policy or contract may cover one or more
ambulance vehicles, but each ambulance shall be insured for a sum as required
by the Village. Every insurance policy or contract for such insurance shall
provide for the payment and satisfaction of any final judgment rendered against
the owner, or any person driving any insured vehicle; and that suit may be
brought in any court of competent jurisdiction upon such policy or contract by
any person having claims arising from the operation or use of such ambulances.
It shall contain a description of each ambulance vehicle insured,
manufacturer's name and serial number, the State license number, and the
ambulance license number.
   C.   In lieu of an insurance policy or contract, a surety bond or bonds with
a corporate surety or sureties authorized to do business under the laws of
Illinois may be accepted for all or any part of such insurance; provided, that
each bond shall be conditioned for the payment and satisfaction of any final
judgment, in conformity with the provisions of an insurance policy required by
this section.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
6-3-4: STANDARDS FOR EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL:
   A.   Each ambulance shall, at all times when in use, be suitable for the
transportation of patients from the standpoint of health, sanitation and
safety, and be maintained in suitable premises; contain equipment conforming
with the standards, requirements and regulations provided herein, which
equipment shall be in proper and good condition for such use; and currently
comply with all applicable statutes and ordinances relating to health,
sanitation and safety.
   B.   Without any limitation upon the foregoing provisions, each vehicle
shall comply with the requirements of the Department of Transportation both for
design and equipment. Radio and communications equipment must be licensed and
approved by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and all hospital
(MERCI) equipment must be approved by the FCC and the Illinois Department of
Public Health.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
6-3-5: CONSENT OF SICK OR INJURED PERSONS:
No physically sick or injured person shall be conveyed against his will by any
private ambulance service from the place where he was overcome by sickness or
from the scene of the accident in which he was injured, nor, having been placed
in an ambulance, shall he be conveyed to a place to which he is unwilling to
go; provided, that if such sick or injured person is unable to give any
direction in his own behalf, and there is no immediate relative present to
direct where he shall be taken, such sick or injured person shall be conveyed
to the nearest emergency medical facility.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
CHAPTER 4: ALARM SYSTEMS
ARTICLE A: ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESSES
Section
6-4A-1:   License Required
6-4A-2:   Application For License; Ineligibility
6-4A-3:   License Fee
6-4A-4:   Bond And Insurance Required
6-4A-5:   Employee Restrictions
6-4A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in, conduct or carry on the
business of installing, causing to be installed, maintaining, servicing,
repairing, altering, replacing or moving in or on any building, place or
premises, within the Village, any device known as a burglar, holdup, smoke, or
fire alarm without having first obtained a license to do so issued by the
Village.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
6-4A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INELIGIBILITY:
No license shall be issued except on written application to the Village. No
license shall be issued to any person convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
6-4A-3: LICENSE FEE:
No license shall be issued until the applicant pays to the Village a license
fee as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1C of this Code.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
6-4A-4: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Bond: No license under this article shall be issued or renewed until
the applicant has filed with the Village a surety bond in favor of the Village,
executed by the applicant, with two (2) or more sufficient sureties or by a
surety company authorized to do business in the Village, a sum as required by
the Village conditioned for the faithful and honest conduct of the business of
burglar or fire alarm systems. Such bond as to its form, execution and
sufficiency of sureties shall be approved by the Village.
   B.   Insurance: A license shall be granted to qualified applicants who shall
have delivered to the Director of the Health and Licensing Department
satisfactory evidence of the existence of a public liability insurance policy
issued by a responsible insurance company, insuring the public and the Village
in an amount as required by the Village.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
6-4A-5: EMPLOYEE RESTRICTIONS:
No burglar or fire alarm systems licensee shall employ and no persons shall
accept employment as an employee of a burglar or fire alarm system licensee who
has been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 75-12-17D, 12-17-1975)
ARTICLE B: WIRELESS ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
6-4B-1:   Wireless Systems Required
6-4B-1: WIRELESS SYSTEMS REQUIRED:
   A.   Effective as set forth in subsection E of this section, all existing
fire alarm systems shall transmit trouble, supervisory, and fire signals
directly to the Village's 9-1-1 Dispatch Center via the Village's municipal
alarm system vendor by using a wireless transmitter.
   B.   All new fire alarm systems shall be directly connected to the Village's
9-1-1 Dispatch Center via the Village's municipal alarm system vendor by using
a wireless transmitter. All required test results shall be transmitted to the
Village's municipal alarm system vendor in a timely manner.
   C.   All new and existing burglar, hold-up, and any other alarm systems
which are not considered to be a fire alarm system under subsection A of this
section shall be connected to the Village's 9-1-1 dispatch center via a
wireless transmitter. All required test results shall be transmitted to the
Village's municipal alarm system vendor in a timely manner.
   D.   All wireless fire, burglar, and hold-up alarm systems installed in the
Village, and any other alarm system installed in the Village that is intended
to be monitored by the Village's 9-1-1 dispatch center, must consist of
equipment that is certified and approved by the Village's Public Safety
Department or its designee as being compatible with the Village's 9-1-
1 dispatch center. The company or person installing a radio transmitter that is
intended to transmit alarms from an alarm system located on premises within the
Village to the Village's 9-1-1 dispatch center must be approved by the
Village's Public Safety Department.
   E.   All fire alarm systems installed in the Village shall be directly
connected to the Village's 9-1-1 dispatch center utilizing the Village's
municipal alarm system vendor upon the earliest occurrence of one of the
following events:
      1.   When the term of any existing fire alarm system contract has been
expired, terminated, canceled, or voided;
      2.   When the existing fire alarm system is updated by the installation
of new equipment; or
      3.   April 1, 2023.
   F.   Violations of this section may be subject to the Village's
administrative hearing system as provided by this Code and a penalty of not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation and each day of any violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-11-1C, 11-1-2006; Ord. 2020-3-11H, 3-11-2020; Ord. 2023-9-11E, 9-11-
2023)
ARTICLE C: CONTROL OF ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
6-4C-1:   Definitions
6-4C-2:   Registration Required
6-4C-3:   Standards For Alarm Systems
6-4C-4:   Inspections
6-4C-5:   False Alarms And False Dials
6-4C-6:   Service Charge For False Alarms
6-4C-7:   Nonliability Of Village
6-4C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical, electrical or otherwise,
arranged to signal the occurrence of any illegal activity, fire or other
emergency situation requiring urgent attention and to which public safety
personnel are expected to respond.
FALSE ALARM: A visual and/or audible signal transmitted by an alarm system
which indicates the existence of an emergency situation when in fact no such
emergency situation exists.
FALSE DIAL: Any contact by telephone, whether land-based or mobile/cellular,
with the Department of Public Safety, via an emergency contact telephone
number, indicating an emergency situation requiring urgent attention and to
which public safety personnel are expected to respond when in fact no such
emergency situation exists.
(Ord. 2009-1-7E, 1-7-2009, eff. 2-1-2009)
6-4C-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Each person operating or maintaining an alarm system in the Village shall be
required to register the system with the Department of Public Safety. Any
person, business, corporation, or other entity operating or maintaining an
alarm system in the Village who fails to register such system with the
Department of Public Safety shall be fined in an amount not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
(Ord. 2009-1-7E, 1-7-2009, eff. 2-1-2009)
6-4C-3: STANDARDS FOR ALARM SYSTEMS:
   A.   All alarm systems installed shall utilize equipment which shall be
substantially equivalent to or exceed the minimum applicable UL standard 1023
(ANSI 2.4-1972) “household burglar alarm systems units”. Fire and smoke
detection systems shall be substantially equivalent to or exceed the minimum
applicable UL standard testing procedure UL 217, and the installation shall
conform to NFPA standards or better, and such equipment shall be installed in a
safe, reliable and workerlike manner.
   B.   All alarm systems must conform to the standards set forth in article B
of this chapter which requires alarm systems to have wireless connections to
the Village Public Safety Department’s communications center.
(Ord. 2009-1-7E, 1-7-2009, eff. 2-1-2009)
6-4C-4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article, the
Superintendent of Public Safety or a public safety officer designated by the
Superintendent shall have the authority, at reasonable times and upon
reasonable oral notice, to enter any premises in the Village in or upon which
alarm systems or alarm businesses subject to this article are located, for the
sole purpose of inspecting the installation and operation of such alarm systems
or alarm businesses on official Public Safety Department business. The fee for
such inspection shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1H of this Code.
   B.   If the owner or occupant of any premises refuses to allow an inspection
in a nonemergency situation, then the Superintendent of Public Safety shall
have the authority to request the issuance of a search warrant or other court
order that will authorize entry onto the premises for purposes of making the
inspection.
   C.   If the inspection reveals any violations of the provisions of this
article, a written report detailing the violations shall be sent promptly to
the Superintendent of Public Safety and to the owner, lessee or other person
responsible for the alarm system or business in violation of this article. The
report shall require the correction within thirty (30) days after receipt of
the notice of the violation discovered, and shall state that a failure to
comply may result in a fine not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). The alarm user or alarm
business may be granted a reasonable extension of time by the Superintendent to
correct the violation upon good cause shown.
(Ord. 2009-1-7E, 1-7-2009, eff. 2-1-2009)
6-4C-5: FALSE ALARMS AND FALSE DIALS:
   A.   Responsibility: Each person operating or maintaining an alarm system in
the Village shall be liable for any false alarm transmitted by the device which
the person operates or maintains, whether or not the false alarm transmission
is intentional, unintentional or a result of a malfunction in the alarm system.
   B.   Response To Signal Or False Dial:
      1.   Whenever the Public Safety Department responds to a signaling device
or contact of the Public Safety Department via an emergency contact telephone
number, a member of the responding department shall inspect the premises and
shall determine whether the response was caused by a false alarm or false dial.
      2.   If the responding department member determines the alarm or dial to
be false, the incident number corresponding to the response shall reflect the
determination of a false alarm or false dial, and an incident report shall be
drafted by the responding department member and forwarded to the Superintendent
of Public Safety, as well as to the owner/operator, or person charged with
maintaining the alarm system or premises from which the false dial originated.
      3.   The Village shall maintain reasonable proof that the owner/operator
or person charged with maintaining the alarm system was provided with a copy of
the false alarm incident report.
   C.   Silencing Alarm/Resetting Alarm System Board Prohibited: The owner/
operator of an alarm system which transmits a false alarm, or his/her
respective agents, employees, or household members, as the case may be, is
prohibited from silencing such alarm or resetting the alarm system board prior
to the arrival of a member of the Public Safety Department. Any silencing of a
false alarm or resetting of the alarm system board transmitting a false alarm
prior to the arrival of a member of the Public Safety Department will result in
a fine not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   D.   Exceptions: For purpose of this section, the following shall not be
subject to penalty:
      1.   Attempted or actual criminal activity or forcible or unauthorized
entry;
      2.   Structural damage to the protected premises due to earthquake, high
winds, lightning, flooding caused by the overflow of natural drainage, or other
extreme, violent conditions of nature;
      3.   Telephone line malfunction;
      4.   Electrical service interruption;
      5.   System malfunction within thirty (30) days of a new installation or
modification of an existing system; provided, that the Chief of Public Safety
has received prior written notice of the work performed and appropriate permits
have been issued;
      6.   Sudden surge or drop in water pressure in the Village water mains;
and
      7.   Malicious false alarms caused by persons other than the operator of
the alarm system, property owner, or his or her respective agents, employees,
or household members, as the case may be.
(Ord. 2009-1-7E, 1-7-2009, eff. 2-1-2009)
6-4C-6: SERVICE CHARGE FOR FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   To reimburse the Village for costs incurred by it in responding to
false alarms and false dials, other than those listed in section 6-4C-5 of this
article, any person operating/maintaining an alarm system, or any owner/manager
of a premises from which a false dial originated, shall pay to the Village a
service charge for each such false alarm or false dial occurrence according to
the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1L of this Code. The annual number of
false alarm or false dial occurrences shall be calculated during the period of
one calendar year, beginning January 1 and ending December 31.
   B.   In the event that the Village must take legal action to collect unpaid
fines or assessments, the owner operating/maintaining the alarm system whose
fees remain unpaid shall reimburse the Village for the reasonable attorney fees
incurred as a result of such legal action.
   C.   All charges assessed according to this section are a debt to the
Village and shall be collectible within thirty (30) days of assessment.
(Ord. 2009-1-7E, 1-7-2009, eff. 2-1-2009)
6-4C-7: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
   A.   The Village assumes no liability for any defects in operation of an
alarm system, nor for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon
receipt of an alarm from such a source, nor for the failure or neglect of any
person in connection with the installation and operation of equipment, the
transmission of alarm signals and prerecorded alarm messages or the relaying of
such signals and messages.
   B.   Deactivation and/or reactivation of an alarm system shall be the
responsibility of the owner/operator of the alarm system. The owner/operator of
the alarm system shall be responsible for notifying the Public Safety
Department when the system is restored to service. The Corporate Authorities of
the Village or their agents shall not be liable for damage or loss due to
disconnecting of alarms which are in violation of this article, and shall not
be responsible for reconnection or reactivation of any alarm disconnected or
deactivated by Public Safety Department personnel in attempting to determine
the reason for and/or validity of an alarm transmission. Disconnection,
deactivation, or reactivation shall be the sole responsibility of the alarm
system owner/operator.
(Ord. 2009-1-7E, 1-7-2009, eff. 2-1-2009)
CHAPTER 5: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
6-5-1:   Definitions
6-5-2:   Prohibited Animals
6-5-3:   At Large Animals Prohibited
6-5-4:   Animal Noise
6-5-5:   Offensive Animal Houses And Premises
6-5-6:   Cruelty To Animals
6-5-7:   Feeding Birds On Public Property
6-5-8:   Wild Animals
6-5-9:   Enforcement And Penalty
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, including article A, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ANIMALS: Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animals and not
under the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any wild animal including, but not limited to, wild mammal,
reptile, fowl, poultry, insect or arachnid which is not naturally tame or
gentle, but is of a wild nature or disposition and which, because of its size,
vicious nature, unpleasant odor, poisonous venom or other characteristics of
the same nature, could constitute a danger to human life, health or property.
DOG: Any dog of either male or female.
DOG LICENSE: A license and registration tag required to be issued annually for
each individual dog.
KEEP OR HARBOR: To maintain, possess, control and use.
OWNER: Any person owning, controlling, keeping or harboring a dog or other
animal or fowl.
POUND: An establishment for the confinement of dogs seized either under the
provisions of this chapter or otherwise.
(1971 Code § 6-1)
6-5-2: PROHIBITED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any cattle, goats, swine, horses,
poultry, fowl or pigeons of any kind, nature or description or any animal
defined as a dangerous animal. All cattle, goats, swine, horses, poultry, fowl,
pigeons or dangerous animals so harbored, kept or maintained are declared a
public nuisance. Any person who keeps or maintains a prohibited animal shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate
offense shall be considered for each day such person shall keep and maintain a
prohibited animal, having been notified by a Village official or any member of
the Public Safety Department that a violation exists.
(1971 Code § 6-4)
6-5-3: AT LARGE ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
No domestic animal shall be permitted to run at large within the limits of the
Village at any time.
(1971 Code § 6-6)
6-5-4: ANIMAL NOISE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit his animal to bark, whine, howl,
or in any manner disturb the quiet of any person or neighborhood so as to cause
an annoyance or discomfort to the public. All such animals are hereby declared
a public nuisance.
(1971 Code § 6-3)
6-5-5: OFFENSIVE ANIMAL HOUSES AND PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful to own, keep or use any yard, pen, place or premises in or
upon which any permitted animal shall be confined, kept or harbored so as to
create a public health or safety hazard or public nuisance. Any person found in
violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate offense shall be considered for
each day such nuisance shall continue, after notice to remove and abate the
nuisance is given.
(1971 Code § 6-5)
6-5-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
A person shall be guilty of cruelty to any animal in any of the ways mentioned
in this section:
   A.   By cruelly beating, torturing, tormenting, mutilating or killing any
animal, or causing or knowingly allowing the same to be done;
   B.   By unnecessarily failing to provide any animal in his charge or
custody, as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink, shelter and air;
   C.   By abandoning any animal;
   D.   By keeping any animal in any unnecessarily cruel manner;
   E.   By carrying or causing to be carried, keeping or causing to be kept,
any animal bound or tied by its legs, or bound down by the neck, or so that it
cannot freely stand in an upright position while being transported, or by
carrying or causing to be carried, keeping or causing to be kept, any animal in
any crate or cage so constructed as to permit such animal to push its head
between the slats, wires or other openings of such cage, unless the space
between such wires or slats is also sufficient to permit such animal to freely
withdraw its head therefrom.
(1971 Code § 6-2)
6-5-7: FEEDING BIRDS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall feed any bird including, but not limited to, geese,
ducks, pigeons and similar fowl while such person is in or on any property
owned, controlled, or under the jurisdiction of the Village or the Rosemont
Park District including, but not limited to, parks, the premises of public
buildings and structures, parkways, streets and other public rights-of-way.
   B.   No person shall leave any seed, bread or bread crumbs, or other
foodstuff which is intended to be or which may constitute bird food on any
property owned, controlled or under the jurisdiction of the Village or the
Rosemont Park District.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of either subsection A or B of this
section shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 94-7-6D, 7-6-1994)
6-5-8: WILD ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited In Residential Areas: No lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot,
jaguar, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, Canada lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, hyena,
coyote, bear, poisonous reptile or other animal which is ferae naturae (wild by
nature and not usually tamed) shall be kept in any residence or on any
residential property within the corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   Running At Large Prohibited: No lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar,
cheetah, margay, mountain lion, Canada lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, hyena, coyote,
bear, poisonous reptile or other animal ferae naturae shall be permitted to run
at large within the corporate limits of the Village at any time.
   C.   Authority To Kill: The members of the Public Safety Department and any
other person in the Village are authorized to kill any lion, tiger, leopard,
ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, Canada lynx, bobcat,
jaguarundi, hyena, coyote, bear, poisonous reptile or other animal ferae
naturae when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property.
(Ord. 78-1-18B, 1-18-1978)
6-5-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Administrative Adjudication:
      1.   Violations of the provisions of this chapter are subject to
prosecution under the Village’s administrative adjudication proceedings set
forth in Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A, of the Village Code, as of now or
hereafter amended.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from
using other methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this
chapter, including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which
has jurisdiction to consideration the violation.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, shall,
upon conviction or upon an administrative determination that a violation
occurred, be fined in the amount of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each twenty four (24) hour period that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
ARTICLE A: DOGS
Section
6-5A-1:   Reporting And Inoculation Required
6-5A-2:   Leashed Dogs; Running At Large Prohibited
6-5A-3:   Dog Bites; Quarantine
6-5A-4:   Impoundment Provisions
6-5A-5:   Removal Of Waste Required
6-5A-6:   Enforcement And Penalty
6-5A-1: REPORTING AND INOCULATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person who owns or keeps a dog within the limits of the Village
shall report annually before January 1 in each year to the Village's Department
of Public Safety his or her name and address and shall give the name, breed,
color, sex, and proof of inoculations of each and every dog owned or kept by
such person within the Village.
   B.   No person shall keep or harbor any dog that has not been inoculated
within the year.
(1971 Code § 6-12; amd. Ord. 2001-9-5C, 9-5-2001; 2019 Code; Ord. 2023-9-11F,
9-11-2023)
6-5A-2: LEASHED DOGS; RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   No owner or keeper of any dog shall permit such dog to be upon any
street, alley or other public place or upon any private property other than
that in the possession and under the control of the owner or keeper unless the
dog shall be on a leash which is not more than six feet (6') in length.
   B.   Any dog found in or upon any street, alley or other public place or
upon any private property other than that in possession or under the control of
the owner or keeper of the dog, and not licensed and/or leashed as herein
provided, shall be considered a dog that is running at large.
(Ord. 79-4-4B, 4-4-1979; amd. Ord. 2001-9-5C, 9-5-2001; Ord. 2023-9-11F, 9-11-
2023)
6-5A-3: DOG BITES; QUARANTINE:
No owner or keeper of any dog shall permit such dog, without provocation, to
bite, attack, attempt to attack, or injure any person. Anyone treating or in
any way having knowledge of the infliction of a dog bite shall at once report
such case to the Village's Department of Public Safety. If the identity of the
dog can be ascertained, the dog may be impounded wherever found, placed in
quarantine in the care of a veterinarian for a period of five (5) days unless
there is sufficient proof of the dog's inoculation presented to the Village's
Department of Public Safety, or destroyed following an administrative order
that the dog shall be destroyed as a dangerous dog pursuant to the Village's
administrative adjudication procedures. As used in this section, a "dog bite"
shall be defined as the infliction of a break in the skin or a wound by the
teeth of a dog, and a "dangerous dog" shall be defined as (i) any individual
dog anywhere other than upon the property of the owner or custodian of the dog
and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its owner or custodian that behaves
in a manner that a reasonable person would believe poses a serious and
unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or death to a person or
(ii) a dog that, without justification, bites a person upon at least one (1)
prior occasion.
(Ord. 79-4-4B, 4-4-1979; Ord. 2023-9-11F, 9-11-2023)
6-5A-4: IMPOUNDMENT PROVISIONS:
Any dog that is running at large in the Village shall be immediately captured
and confined in the Village pound or other place designated by the Public
Safety Department of the Village. If the owner or keeper shall reclaim the dog
within five (5) days of its capture and pay the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00)
per day to the Village for the expense of confining the dog, it shall be
released to the owner or keeper; provided, however, that such redemption by the
owner shall not relieve the owner from the penalty for the violation of this
chapter. If the dog is not reclaimed by the owner or keeper within five (5)
days from the date of impounding thereof, the dog shall be destroyed or sold.
All fees derived from the redemption or sale of dogs under this section shall
be placed in the General Fund of the Village.
(Ord. 79-4-4B, 4-4-1979; Ord. 2023-9-11F, 9-11-2023)
6-5A-5: REMOVAL OF WASTE REQUIRED:
   A.   If any dog defecates on any street, alley or other public place or upon
private property other than that in the possession or under the control of the
owner or keeper of the dog, the owner or keeper shall immediately, after the
dog defecates, remove the feces from the public place or private property and
dispose of the feces in a clean, safe and sanitary manner.
   B.   The owner or keeper of a dog who is walking his dog on any street,
alley or other public place or on any private property not in his possession or
under his control is required to carry with him a "pooper-scooper" or similar
device which will, if the dog defecates, enable the owner or keeper to remove
the feces in a clean and sanitary manner.
(Ord. 79-4-4B, 4-4-1979; amd. Ord. 2001-9-5C, 9-5-2001; Ord. 2023-9-11F, 9-11-
2023)
6-5A-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Administrative Adjudication:
      1.   Violations of the provisions of this chapter are subject to
prosecution under the Village's administrative adjudication proceedings set
forth in
Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A, of the Village Code, as of now or hereafter
amended.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from
using other methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this
chapter, including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which
has jurisdiction to consideration the violation.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall,
upon conviction or upon an administrative determination that a violation
occurred, be fined in the amount of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each twenty-four (24) hour period that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2023-9-11F, 9-11-2023)
CHAPTER 6: JUVENILES
Section
6-6-1:   Sales, Distribution Of Harmful Materials To
Cross-reference:
   See also title 7, chapter 8 of this Code for curfew regulations
6-6-1: SALES, DISTRIBUTION OF HARMFUL MATERIALS TO:
   A.   Sales Or Distribution To Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person with knowledge that a person is seventeen (17) years of age or younger,
or who fails to exercise reasonable care in determining the age of such person,
to sell, deliver, offer for sale, distribute, publish, print or exhibit to any
person seventeen (17) years of age or younger any harmful material with
knowledge of the content thereof, or recklessly fail to exercise reasonable
inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof, whether
writing, picture, moving picture, record, or other representation or embodiment
of harmful material, or to present or to direct a harmful play or other
performance, or to perform a harmful act, or otherwise promote the sale of
harmful material to any person seventeen (17) years of age or younger.
   B.   Determination Of Harmful Materials: A thing shall be deemed to be
harmful which, in whole or in part, depicts or describes nude persons, sexual
acts, normal or perverted sexual conduct, whether actual or simulated,
representations of masturbation, excretory functions, or the human genitals. A
thing shall also be deemed harmful which, when taken as a whole, appeals to an
interest in violence, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific
value, and which depicts or describes the shooting, stabbing, mutilating,
maiming, torturing, burning, strangling or striking of a human being.
   C.   Exemptions: Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library
or accredited educational institution from circulating harmful material to any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years, provided such circulation was with
parental consent and was for a legitimate scientific or educational purpose.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit a parent from distributing to his child
any harmful material.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and may be incarcerated in a penal institution other than the
penitentiary not to exceed six (6) months.
(Ord. 75-7-16A, 7-16-1975)
ARTICLE A: TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ACCESSORIES REGULATIONS
Section
6-6A-1:   Definitions
6-6A-2:   Sales Or Delivery To Persons Under Eighteen Prohibited; Signs Posted
6-6A-3:   Minimum Age To Sell Tobacco Products
6-6A-4:   Purchase, Possession By Persons Under Eighteen Prohibited
6-6A-5:   Providing, Gifting Tobacco Products
6-6A-6:   Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
6-6A-7:   Vending Machines
6-6A-8:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Business License
6-6A-9:   Penalty
6-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PERSON: Any natural person, corporation, partnership, or other entity.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, or
dipping tobacco.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electrical or electronic self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
6-6A-2: SALES OR DELIVERY TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED; SIGNS POSTED:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any natural person under the age
of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Signs:
      1.   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided in this
section shall be posted on every premises for which a cigarette and tobacco
dealer's license has been issued and on every vending machine which offers
tobacco products for sale. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall
state:
VILLAGE OF ROSEMONT ORDINANCE PROHIBITS THE PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO
PRODUCTS BY PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE
      2.   Each such sign shall be in red letters on a white background, with
each letter on the sign to be at least one inch (1") high.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
6-6A-3: MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any natural person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to sell tobacco products within the Village; except, that natural
persons who are at least sixteen (16) years old may sell tobacco products as
provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage, employ or permit any
natural person under eighteen (18) years of age to sell tobacco products;
except, that a natural person younger than eighteen (18) years of age, but at
least sixteen (16) years of age, may sell tobacco products on premises for
which a cigarette and tobacco dealer's license has been issued if any officer,
agent or employee of the licensee who is at least twenty one (21) years of age
shall also be on the premises for which the license has been issued at the time
of such sale.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
6-6A-4: PURCHASE, POSSESSION BY PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED:
   A.   Purchase: It shall be unlawful for any natural person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to purchase tobacco products or to misrepresent his/her
identity or age or to use any false or altered identification for the purpose
of purchasing tobacco products.
   B.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for a natural person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to possess any tobacco products; provided, that the
possession by a natural person under the age of eighteen (18) years under the
direct supervision of a parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of the
parent’s or guardian's home shall not be prohibited.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
6-6A-5: PROVIDING, GIFTING TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining tobacco products, shall
sell, give or deliver such tobacco products to a natural person under the age
of eighteen (18) years; provided, that the gift of a tobacco product to a
person under the age of eighteen (18) years made under direct supervision of
the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of the parent's or
guardian's home shall not be prohibited.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
6-6A-6: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of selling
or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products, or any
employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the course of such
licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or deliver tobacco
products, free of charge, to any natural person on any public right-of-way
within the Village.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
6-6A-7: VENDING MACHINES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, give
away, deliver or keep with the intention of selling, giving away or delivering
tobacco products by use of a vending machine, unless such vending machine is
equipped with a manual, electric or electronic locking device which can be and
is controlled so as to prevent the operation of the vending machine by natural
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Any premises where access by natural persons under the age of eighteen
(18) years is prohibited by law, or premises where the public is generally not
permitted and where vending machines are maintained strictly for the use of
employees and businesses which are located on such premises shall not be
subject to the requirements of subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
7-2-15 of this Code
6-6A-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall be authorized
to suspend or revoke a cigarette and tobacco dealer's license or any license
which has been issued for vending machine products if the Director finds that a
violation of this article has occurred on the premises for which the cigarette
dealer's license has been issued or in connection with the vending machine for
which the license has been issued.
   B.   1.   During the period that a cigarette and tobacco dealer's license is
suspended, such business for which the license was issued shall not engage in
the sale or distribution of tobacco products.
      2.   During the period that a vending machine license has been suspended,
the vending machine shall not be used for the sale or dispensing of tobacco
products.
   C.   1.   Following the revocation of a cigarette dealer's license, there
shall be no sale or distribution of tobacco products on the premises for which
the license has been issued.
      2.   Following the revocation of a license for a vending machine, the
machine shall not be used for the sale or distribution of tobacco products.
   D.   The Director of the Health and Licensing Department shall not issue an
order suspending or revoking a license pursuant to this section unless the
Director has first conducted a hearing to determine if a violation of this
article has occurred in connection with either the premises or the vending
machine for which the license has been issued. The Director shall give notice
of the hearing to the licensee as shown on the license application last filed
with the Village, not less than seven (7) days prior to the date of the
hearing. Such notice shall advise the licensee of the date, time and place of
the hearing and shall state that the licensee may appear at the hearing and
present testimony or other evidence as to why the alleged violation of this
article did not occur. The licensee shall be entitled to be represented at the
hearing by an attorney.
   E.   Any person who continues to sell tobacco products on the premises for
which a cigarette dealer's license has been revoked or suspended or to operate
and maintain a vending machine for which the vending machine license has been
revoked or suspended shall be subject to a fine of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each
offense. Each day or part thereof that tobacco products are sold or dispensed
on premises or through a vending machine for which a license has been revoked
or suspended pursuant to this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
6-6A-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the terms or provisions of this article shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense.
(Ord. 94-9-6F, 9-6-1994)
ARTICLE B: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND JUVENILES
Section
6-6B-1:   Definitions
6-6B-2:   Purchase, Possession, Consumption By Underage Persons
6-6B-3:   Sale, Delivery, Giving To Underage Persons
6-6B-4:   Rental Of Hotel And Motel Rooms For Consumption
6-6B-5:   Use Of False Identification
6-6B-6:   Driving Under The Influence; Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
6-6B-7:   Vicarious Liability
6-6B-8:   False Identification Not A Defense
6-6B-9:   Impoundment Of Vehicle Involved In An Offense
6-6B-10:   Penalties
6-6B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR LIQUOR:
   A.   Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more than one-
half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume, which is used or intended for use
as a beverage.
   B.   Any beverage containing zero percent (0.0%) or more alcohol by volume
commonly known as “near beer”, “nonalcoholic beer”, or “nonalcoholic wine”,
whose taste, color, odor, and consistency are similar to the alcoholic
beverages known as beer and wine and, except for the reduced alcohol content,
is marketed as being similar to beer or wine.
FALSE IDENTIFICATION: Any document used for identification or proof of age that
has been altered or defaced or that contains false or misleading information or
that contains a name that is not the actual name of the person using it.
IMPAIRMENT: Any diminution or compromise of a person’s physical, mental or
perceptual abilities due to the consumption of an alcoholic beverage.
IMPAIRMENT does not require that the blood alcohol content be in excess of any
particular gram of alcohol to milliliters of blood or breath ratio.
OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE: The exercise of any control over the motor
vehicle on a street or other public right-of-way or public property within the
Village of Rosemont including, but not limited to, physical control of the
motor vehicle. To be in control of the motor vehicle, the person need only be
in or around the motor vehicle and need not be actually driving the motor
vehicle and the vehicle need not be running. If there is only one person inside
of a motor vehicle, that person is presumed to be in control, regardless of the
person's location within the vehicle. If there is more than one person in the
motor vehicle, but only one person in the front seat or front passenger area of
the motor vehicle, the person in the front seat or passenger area shall be
presumed to be in control of the motor vehicle. If there are persons in the
motor vehicle, but not in the front seat or front passenger area, the owner of
the vehicle or the person to whom permission was given to operate the vehicle
is presumed to be in control. If there are persons in the presence of the motor
vehicle, but no persons in the vehicle, and the owner of the motor vehicle is
present, then the owner is presumed to be in control of the vehicle. If there
are persons in the presence of the motor vehicle, but no persons in the motor
vehicle, and the owner is not present, then the person to whom permission was
given to operate the vehicle is presumed to be in control of the vehicle.
PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
TO BE IN CONTROL OF A PREMISES OR TO HAVE A PREMISES UNDER ONE’S CONTROL: To
have legal or beneficial ownership of the premises, or to rent, lease, license
or otherwise have a right to be in the possession or control of the premises.
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
VICARIOUS LIABILITY: The liability that is implied as a matter of law even
though the person may not have directly caused an injury to another person.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-2: PURCHASE, POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION BY UNDERAGE PERSONS:
It shall be unlawful for any underage person to purchase, possess or consume an
alcoholic beverage; provided, that the possession or consumption of an
alcoholic beverage by an underage person is not prohibited when the possession
or consumption occurs under the direct supervision of the underage person’s
parent in the residence of the parent or guardian.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-3: SALE, DELIVERY, GIVING TO UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcoholic beverage to any
underage person.
   B.   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic beverage,
shall sell or offer for sale such alcoholic beverage to an underage person.
   C.   Except as provided in subsections D and E of this section, no person
shall knowingly or negligently permit, on premises under his or her control,
the consumption of an alcoholic beverage by an underage person, and no person
shall deliver or give any alcoholic beverage to any underage person. This
subsection shall apply to both residential and commercial property including,
but not limited to, hotel or motel rooms.
   D.   The prohibition on the consumption, giving and delivery of alcoholic
beverages contained in subsection C of this section shall not apply to the
delivery of an alcoholic beverage to an underage person by the underage
person’s parent within a residence where such delivery, giving or consumption
occurs in the presence of the underage person’s parent. However, the following
shall apply where an alcoholic beverage is delivered, given, or consumed by an
underage person in the presence of the underage person’s parent:
      1.   The parent shall be vicariously liable for any damages which may
result from the delivery, giving or consumption of the alcoholic beverage by
the underage person as set forth in section
6-6B-7 of this article.
      2.   In any prosecution of an underage person for the commission of any
act which violates an ordinance of the Village, the prosecutor, upon reasonable
grounds, may request a ruling as to whether the consumption of an alcoholic
beverage as permitted by the parent was a contributing factor in the commission
of the offense. If the court rules that the consumption of an alcoholic
beverage was a contributing factor, then the penalty set forth in section 6-6B-
10 of this article shall be imposed by the court.
   E.   The prohibition on the consumption, delivery, or giving of an alcoholic
beverage to an underage person contained in subsection C of this section shall
not apply where the consumption, delivery or giving of the alcoholic beverage
occurs in the performance of a religious service or ceremony.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-4: RENTAL OF HOTEL AND MOTEL ROOMS FOR CONSUMPTION:
No person shall rent a hotel or motel room for the purpose of or with the
knowledge that such room is to be used for the consumption of alcoholic
beverages by an underage person.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-5: USE OF FALSE IDENTIFICATION:
No underage person shall use or attempt to use false identification to purchase
or otherwise obtain an alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-6: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   No underage person shall, in any manner, operate a motor vehicle on a
street or other public right- of-way within the Village while in a state of
impairment due to the consumption of an alcoholic beverage.
   B.   No underage person shall operate a motor vehicle if there is an
alcoholic beverage in the vehicle unless:
      1.   The alcoholic beverage is in its original package;
      2.   The package is unopened; and
      3.   The underage person’s parent is present in the motor vehicle at the
time it is being operated by the underage person.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-7: VICARIOUS LIABILITY:
   A.   The following persons are liable to any individual who is injured or
whose property is injured or damaged by an alcohol impaired underage person
when the impairment is a contributing cause of the injury:
      1.   Any person who delivers to the underage person any alcoholic
beverage which contributes to the impairment. The person who makes the initial
delivery to an underage person remains liable to anyone injured by the same or
different underage person regardless of how many times the alcoholic beverage
changed hands.
      2.   Any person in control of a premises who knowingly or negligently
fails to maintain supervision to such an extent that an alcoholic beverage is
consumed on the premises by an underage person.
      3.   Any person who knowingly or negligently permits the operation of a
motor vehicle under his or her control by an underage person when the person
knew, or in the exercise of ordinary and reasonable judgment should have known,
that the underage person was either impaired or had consumed any amount of
alcohol within two (2) hours prior to when the permission was granted to
operate the motor vehicle.
   B.   The vicarious liability established by this section is not subject to
the limitations on damages as set forth in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
21.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-8: FALSE IDENTIFICATION NOT A DEFENSE:
It is not a defense to any action of any type brought pursuant to this article
or any other ordinance of the Village against any liquor licensee or any other
person charged with the sale, the offering for sale, or the delivery of an
alcoholic beverage to an underage person that such the underage person produced
false identification or proof of age.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-9: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE INVOLVED IN AN OFFENSE:
The following apply when any underage person is found in the Village operating
any motor vehicle in which or on which is found any alcoholic beverage of any
kind or nature, or when the underage person is in a state of impairment due to
the consumption of an alcoholic beverage:
   A.   The motor vehicle shall be immediately impounded by the Village Public
Safety Department.
   B.   The motor vehicle may be released only to another person showing proof
of ownership or lease rights to the motor vehicle, unless the underage operator
is the owner or lessor of the vehicle, in which case, the vehicle shall be
released only to a parent or legal guardian of the underage owner.
   C.   The motor vehicle will not be released until the person seeking the
release of the vehicle has paid any and all towing, storage or other costs
resulting from the impoundment of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
6-6B-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who is found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this article shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollar ($250.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
the first offense and not less than three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) nor
more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for the second and
subsequent offenses.
   B.   Any underage person convicted of violating a provision of section 6-6B-
6 of this article shall be prohibited from operating a motor vehicle on any
street or public right-of-way of the Village for a period of one year after the
date of the conviction. If such a person is found guilty of having operated a
motor vehicle in violation of section 6-6B-6 of this article, such person
shall, upon conviction be fined not less than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) nor more than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 94-9-6G, 9-6-1994)
CHAPTER 7: AIR RIFLES
Section
6-7-1:   Definition
6-7-2:   Prohibitions
6-7-3:   Exemptions
6-7-4:   Penalty
6-7-5:   Seizure And Forfeiture
6-7-6:   Prosecution Of Violations
6-7-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term AIR RIFLE shall mean any air gun, air pistol,
spring gun, spring pistol, B-B gun, paint ball gun, pellet gun, or any
implement that is not a firearm that:
   A.   Impels a breakable paint ball containing marking colors; or
   B.   Impels a pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead, or other hard
materials with a force can reasonably be expected to cause bodily harm if it
strikes a human being.
(Ord. 2007-8-1G, 8-1-2007)
6-7-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to
carry or otherwise possess any air rifle on the public streets, roads,
highways, parks, and rights-of-way and on any other publicly owned property
located within the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, irrespective of age, to discharge
any air rifle from or across any street, sidewalk, road, highway or other
public right-of-way.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, irrespective of age, to discharge
any air rifle while within a park or while on any other publicly owned property
within the Village except on an authorized target range.
   D.   It shall be unlawful of any person to sell, rent or transfer ownership
of an air rifle to any person under the age of eighteen (18), where such person
knows or has cause to believe that the person is under eighteen (18) years of
age, or where such person has failed to make reasonable inquiry relative to the
age of such person and such person is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to lend or otherwise transfer possession
of any air rifle to any person under eighteen (18) years of age except with the
prior permission of the parent or such other person who stands in loco parentis
to the person under eighteen (18) years of age.
(Ord. 2007-8-1G, 8-1-2007)
6-7-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Notwithstanding any provisions of section 6-7-2 of this chapter, it is lawful
for any person under eighteen (18) years of age to have an air rifle in his
possession:
   A.   If the air rifle is being stored within his house of residence or other
privately owned, enclosed structure;
   B.   If the person under eighteen (18) years of age is a duly enrolled
member of a club, team or association organized for educational or recreational
purposes which maintains as part of its facilities or which has written
permission to use an indoor or outdoor rifle range; provided, that the air
rifle is actually being used by the person under the age of eighteen (18) in
connection with the activities of the club, team or association under the
supervision, guidance and instruction of a responsible adult; or
   C.   If the air rifle is being used in or on any privately owned property
with the permission of the owner or occupant of the property in a manner that
the projectile from the air rifle will not pass over any grounds or space
outside the privately owned property, and provided the discharge or firing of
the air rifle does not otherwise endanger persons or property.
(Ord. 2007-8-1G, 8-1-2007)
6-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2007-8-1G, 8-1-2007)
6-7-5: SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE:
Any air rifle possessed or used in violation of section 6-7-2 of this chapter
is declared to be contraband subject and to seizure, and any such air rifle
shall be subject to forfeiture upon a finding of guilty of any person for a
violation of said section 6-7-2. Upon appropriate order of a court or
administrative hearing officer, the air rifle shall be disposed of in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2007-8-1G, 8-1-2007)
6-7-6: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS:
Violations of the provisions of section 6-7-2 of this chapter are subject to
prosecution under the Village administrative adjudication proceedings
established pursuant to title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code, as now or
hereafter amended. The provisions of this section shall not preclude the
Village from using other methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged
violations of this chapter including, without limitation, the institution of an
action in the Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative
tribunal which has jurisdiction to consider the violation.
(Ord. 2007-8-1G, 8-1-2007)
CHAPTER 8: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
6-8-1:   Offenses Involving Theft
6-8-1-1:   Theft
6-8-1-2:   Retail Theft
6-8-1-3:   Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Property
6-8-1-4:   Penalties
6-8-2:   Use Of Laser Pointers In Places Of Public Assembly
6-8-3:   Firearms In Parkway Bank Park Entertainment District
Cross-reference:
   See also title 7 of this Code
6-8-1: OFFENSES INVOLVING THEFT:
6-8-1-1: THEFT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit theft of property.
   B.   A person commits theft when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
or
      2.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
      3.   Obtains by threat control over the property of the owner; or
      4.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or her
to believe that the property was stolen, and:
         a.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
         c.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit; or
         d.   Obtains or exerts control over property in the custody of any law
enforcement agency which is explicitly represented to him by any law
enforcement officer or any individual acting in behalf of a law enforcement
agency as being stolen.
   C.   A person commits theft from a coin-operated machine when he or she
knowingly and without authority and with intent to commit a theft from such
machine, opens, breaks into, tampers with, or damages a coin-operated machine.
As used in this subsection, the term "coin-operated machine" shall include any:
      1.   Automatic vending machine or any part thereof;
      2.   Parking meter;
      3.   Coin telephone;
      4.   Coin laundry machine;
      5.   Coin dry cleaning machine;
      6.   Amusement machine;
      7.   Music machine;
      8.   Vending machine dispensing goods or services; and
      9.   Money changer.
   D.   It shall be prima facie evidence that a person "knowingly obtains or
exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner" when a lessee of the
personal property of another fails to return it to the owner within thirty (30)
days after written demand from the owner for its return. A notice in writing,
given after the expiration of the leasing agreement, addressed and mailed, by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by him and shown on the
leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand.
   E.   It is no defense to a charge of theft of property that the offender has
an interest therein, when the owner also has an interest in which the offender
is not entitled.
(Ord. 99-9-1D, 9-1-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-1-11B, 1-11-2021)
6-8-1-2: RETAIL THEFT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit retail theft of property.
   B.   A person commits the offense of retail theft when he or she knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale
in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
price of such merchandise; or
      2.   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag or marking
indicative of value or any other markings which aid in determining value
affixed to any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a
retail mercantile establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise
personally or in consort with another at less than the full retail value with
the intention of depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such
merchandise; or
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      4.   Under-rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
      5.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart; or
      6.   Represents to a merchant that he, she, or another is the lawful
owner of property, knowing that such representation is false, and conveys or
attempts to convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property
in exchange for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant; or
      7.   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device, theft
detection device remover, or any laminated or coated bag or device designed and
intended to shield merchandise from detection by an electronic or magnetic
theft alarm sensor, with the intention of using such device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      8.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner
and thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return
it to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within ten (10) days after written demand from the owner for its return.
A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing agreement, by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee and shown on
the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand.
   C.   Presumptions: If any person conceals upon his or her person or among
his or her belongings unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or
offered for sale in a retail mercantile establishment and removes that
merchandise beyond the last known station for receiving payments for that
merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment, such person shall be
presumed to have possessed, carried away or transferred such merchandise with
the intention of retaining it or with the intention of depriving the merchant
permanently of the possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without
paying the full retail price of such merchandise. For the purposes of this
section, to "conceal" merchandise means that, although there may be some notice
of its presence, that merchandise is not visible through ordinary observation.
   D.   Detention: Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a
person has committed retail theft and immediately pursues such person may
detain such person on or off the premises of a retail mercantile establishment
in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time for all or any of
the following purposes:
      1.   To request identification;
      2.   To verify such identification;
      3.   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his or
her possession unpurchased merchandise, and to make reasonable investigation of
the ownership of such merchandise;
      4.   To inform a law enforcement officer of the detention and surrender
that person to the custody of the law enforcement officer; and
      5.   In the case of a minor, to inform a law enforcement officer, the
parents, guardian or other private person interested in the welfare of that
minor of this detention and to surrender custody of such minor to such person.
   E.   Affirmative Defense: A detention as permitted by this section, does not
constitute an arrest or an unlawful restraint, nor shall it render the merchant
liable to the person so detained.
(Ord. 99-9-1D, 9-1-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-1-11B, 1-11-2021)
6-8-1-3: THEFT OF LOST OR MISLAID PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit of property which has
been lost or mislaid.
   B.   A person who obtains control over lost or mislaid property commits
theft when he or she:
      1.   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows or is aware of,
or learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner; and
      2.   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
owner; and
      3.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property.
(Ord. 99-9-1D, 9-1-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-1-11B, 1-11-2021)
6-8-1-4: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be
subject to the following penalties for each offense:
   A.   A fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00); or
   B.   An order to make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed
actual loss or damage to property and pecuniary loss in those cases involving
damage to property and pecuniary loss; or
   C.   In the case of a minor or indigent person, an order of community
service of not less than fifty (50) community service hours.
(Ord. 99-9-1D, 9-1-1999; amd. Ord. 2021-1-11B, 1-11-2021)
6-8-2: USE OF LASER POINTERS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY:
   A.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them by this subsection:
   LASER POINTER: A helium neon (HeNe) laser which operates at a wavelength of
632.8 nMe with the mandated power limit of 5mW; a diode laser which operates at
a wavelength of 670 nMe with a power source providing 5mW; and any other laser
pen, laser pointer or similar device which emits lasers or beams of light.
   PLACE OF ASSEMBLY: A sports arena, concert hall, theater, movie theater,
exposition center, trade show facility, exhibition hall, ballroom, and any
other structure or places which are used or intended for use as locations for
entertainment, sporting events, lectures, concerts, plays, dances and similar
events, productions and performances. Places of public assembly shall include,
but not be limited to, the Allstate Arena, the Rosemont Theater, the Donald E.
Stephens Convention Center, Impact Field, and the Dome and Ballpark at
Rosemont.
   UNAUTHORIZED PERSON: Any person who does not have permission from the owner
or operator of a place of assembly or from the producer or performer of an
event occurring in a place of public assembly to use a laser pointer in the
place of assembly.
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to use,
display, point or shine a laser pointer in a place of assembly.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Any unauthorized person who uses a laser pointer in violation of the
provisions of subsection B of this section will be subject to removal from the
place of assembly and, in addition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense.
      2.   Each instance of the use of a laser pointer in violation of
subsection B of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
      3.   Any laser pointer used in violation of subsection B of this section
shall constitute contraband and shall be subject to confiscation by the
Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 99-1-6H, 1-6-1999)
6-8-3: FIREARMS IN PARKWAY BANK PARK ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT:
   A.   Designation Of Park; Firearms Prohibited: “Parkway Bank Park” is hereby
designated as a prohibited area under section 65 of the Firearm Concealed Carry
Act (430 ILCS 66/65).
   B.   Signs Posted:
      1.   The tenants of all Village owned property located within Parkway
Bank Park shall post signs at the entrance or entrances to the building,
premises or real property stating that the carrying of firearms is prohibited.
The signs to be posted shall be a uniform design as established by the Illinois
Department of State Police and shall be provided by the Department of Public
Safety.
      2.   Signs indicating that the carrying of firearms is prohibited within
Parkway Bank Park shall be posted in each elevator lobby and at each walkway
entering Parkway Bank Park. Such signs shall be clear and conspicuous and shall
contain the uniform design established by the Illinois Department of State
Police.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person that violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense.
      2.   Any person found in violation of this section shall be expelled from
Parkway Bank Park.
(Ord. 2014-3-12N, 3-12-2014)
CHAPTER 9: CHECKPOINTS AT SCOTT STREET SUBDIVISION
Section
6-9-1:   Authority To Establish And Operate; Hours
6-9-2:   Signs Posted
6-9-3:   Persons Passing Through Stopped And Questioned
6-9-4:   Visual Inspections; Information Required
6-9-5:   Vehicle Decals For Employees Or Service Providers
6-9-1: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH AND OPERATE; HOURS:
The Superintendent of Public Safety (the “Superintendent”) is hereby authorized
to establish and operate “checkpoints” at the entrances to the Scott Street
Subdivision. Any checkpoint established pursuant to this chapter shall be
manned by either a full-time uniformed officer or auxiliary officer of the
Public Safety Department during such times when the checkpoint is being
operated. The Superintendent shall determine the hours during which the
checkpoints will be operated.
(Ord. 94-9-6E, 9-6-1994)
6-9-2: SIGNS POSTED:
The Superintendent shall cause signs to be posted at those entrances to the
Scott Street Subdivision where checkpoints are established stating that all
persons, motorists, and passengers who intend to pass through the checkpoint
are subject to questioning.
(Ord. 94-9-6E, 9-6-1994)
6-9-3: PERSONS PASSING THROUGH STOPPED AND QUESTIONED:
All persons, motorists, and passengers who pass through a checkpoint shall be
stopped and questioned except for those motorists operating a motor vehicle
which displays either a current Village vehicle sticker or displays a decal
issued by the Village Clerk to those persons who are employed at or performing
services at locations within the Scott Street Subdivision pursuant to section
6-9-5 of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-9-6E, 9-6-1994)
6-9-4: VISUAL INSPECTIONS; INFORMATION REQUIRED:
The public safety officer operating a checkpoint established pursuant to this
chapter shall conduct a visual inspections of the motor vehicles passing
through the checkpoint. All persons, motorists, and passengers in the motor
vehicles shall be asked to state their names, addresses and the purpose for
entering the Scott Street Subdivision; provided, however, any person, motorist
and/or passenger who refuses to state his or her name and address or his or her
purpose for entering the Scott Street Subdivision shall be allowed to enter the
subdivision.
(Ord. 94-9-6E, 9-6-1994)
6-9-5: VEHICLE DECALS FOR EMPLOYEES OR SERVICE PROVIDERS:
   A.   The Village Clerk shall be and hereby is authorized to issue, without
charge, decals to persons who do not reside within the Village who are employed
or who regularly perform services at locations within the Scott Street
Subdivision.
   B.   The decals shall be affixed to the lower left hand corner of the
windshield of a motor vehicle.
   C.   No decal shall be issued to any person unless and until the person has
completed an application which states the person's name, address, and driver's
license number, and contains a description of the make, model, color and
license plate number of the vehicle to which the decal is to be attached.
(Ord. 94-9-6E, 9-6-1994)
CHAPTER 10: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES INVOLVED IN CERTAIN OFFENSES
Section
6-10-1:   Definitions
6-10-2:   Violations Enumerated
6-10-3:   Seizure And Impoundment
6-10-4:   Administrative Hearing
6-10-5:   Requirements For Recovery Of Vehicle
6-10-6:   Posting Bond
6-10-7:   Disposition Of Unclaimed Vehicle
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BUSINESS DAY: Any day in which the Office of the Village Clerk of the Village
of Rosemont is open to the public for a minimum of seven (7) hours.
ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ("IVC"): The Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100, et
seq., and any amendments of the IVC.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, and motor scooters.
OWNER OF RECORD: The record title holder(s) of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2004-12-1G, 12-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-10-9, 10-9-2023)
6-10-2: VIOLATIONS ENUMERATED:
   A.   A motor vehicle that is used in connection with any of the following
violations shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the Village, and the
owner of record of the vehicle, or the agents of that owner, shall be liable to
the Village for administrative fees of seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00), plus any applicable towing and storage charges:
      1.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to Section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/36-
1, and any amendments thereof, which includes, but is not limited to: first
degree murder, involuntary manslaughter and reckless homicide, aggravated
kidnaping, criminal sexual assault, aggravated criminal sexual assault,
predatory criminal sexual assault of a child, criminal sexual abuse, aggravated
criminal sexual abuse, indecent solicitation of a child, child pornography,
aggravated battery, stalking, aggravated stalking, retail theft, armed robbery,
burglary, possession of burglary tools, residential burglary, arson, possession
of explosives or explosive or incendiary devices, unlawful use of weapons,
aggravated discharge of a firearm, reckless discharge of a firearm, gambling,
or possession of a deadly substance; or
      2.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
Section 11-501 of the IVC; or
      3.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, 720
ILCS 550/1, et seq., and any amendments thereof; or
      4.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/101, et seq., and any amendments thereof; or
      5.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1 (unlawful use of
weapons), 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5 (reckless discharge of a firearm), or 720 ILCS 5/
24-3.1 (unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition) and any
amendments thereof; or
      6.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to Section 6-303 of the IVC,
except that a motor vehicle shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if
the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure
to comply with emission testing; or
      7.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act and any
amendments thereof; or
      8.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of Section 6-101 of the IVC, if the period of expiration
is greater than one (1) year; or
      9.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of Section 6-101 of the IVC, or
operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's license or
permit due to a person's age; or
      10.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated Sections 6-101 (drivers must have licenses or
permits), 6-303 (driving while driver's license, permit, or privilege is
suspended or revoked), or 11-501 (driving while under the influence of alcohol,
other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination
thereof) of the IVC; or
      11.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 of the Criminal Code
of 2012 (Theft and Related Offenses) and any amendments thereof; or
      12.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1, et seq., and any amendments thereof; or
      13.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of Section 11-503
(reckless driving and aggravated reckless driving) of the IVC; or
      14.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of Section 11-506
(street racing, aggravated street racing, or street sideshows) of the IVC; or
      15.   Operation of a motor vehicle in violation of Section 3-707
(operation of uninsured motor vehicle) of the IVC.
   B.   No administrative fees shall be imposed on the registered owner or the
agents of that owner if the motor vehicle was stolen or hijacked at the time
the vehicle was impounded. To demonstrate that the motor vehicle was hijacked
or stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded, the owner or the agents of the
owner must submit proof that a report concerning the motor vehicle was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-5-1, 5-1-2023; Ord. 2023-10-9, 10-9-
2023)
6-10-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Whenever a public safety officer has reason to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the
public safety officer shall, in the exercise of discretion, provide for the
towing of the vehicle to a facility approved by the Department of Public
Safety.
   B.   For any motor vehicle that is subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this chapter due to violations of Sections 3-707 (operation of
uninsured motor vehicle), 6-303 (driving while driver's license, permit, or
privilege is suspended or revoked), 11-501 (driving while under the influence
of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any
combination thereof), and 11-506 (street racing, aggravated street racing, or
street sideshows) of the IVC, a public safety officer shall have the discretion
to release said motor vehicle to the owner of record as provided by 625 ILCS 5/
4-203. For example, the public safety officer may not provide for the towing of
the motor vehicle, or may release said vehicle, if:
      1.   The vehicle is not owned by the person under arrest, and the owner
requesting release possesses a valid driver's license, proof or ownership, and
would not, as determined by the arresting public safety officer, indicate a
lack of ability to operate a motor vehicle in a safe manner or, by operating
said vehicle, otherwise violate the IVC; or
      2.   The vehicle is owned by the person under arrest, and the owner gives
permission to another person to operate the vehicle; provided, however, that
the other person possesses a valid driver's license and would not, as
determined by the arresting public safety officer, indicate a lack of ability
to operate a motor vehicle in a safe manner or, by operating said vehicle,
otherwise violate the IVC.
   C.   The public safety officer shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to
notify the owner of record, lessee, person claiming to be the owner or lessee,
or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's right
to request an administrative hearing under this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-12-1G, 12-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-10-9, 10-9-2023)
6-10-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Within five (5) business days after a vehicle is seized and impounded
pursuant to this chapter, the Village shall notify, by personal service, first
class mail, or certified mail, the owner of record, lessee, and any lienholder
of recorder of the owner's right to request a hearing to determine whether a
violation of this chapter actually occurred. The name and address of the person
to whom a vehicle is registered as shown on the records of the State in which
the vehicle is registered shall be conclusive evidence of the name and address
of the owner of record of the vehicle, unless the owner of record gave the
Village actual written notice of a different name or address.
   B.   In order to obtain a hearing, the owner of record must file a written
request for a hearing with the Village Clerk or the Department of Public Safety
no later than ten (10) business days after the date the notice was mailed. The
hearing date must be scheduled for a date that is no more than fifteen (15)
business days after a request for a hearing has been filed. The person
requesting the hearing shall be given at least five (5) business days' notice
of the date of the hearing.
   C.   The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer appointed in
accordance with this Code and in accordance with this Code.
   D.   If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines, by a
preponderance of evidence, that the vehicle was used in violation of section
6-10-2 of this Code, then the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the
owner of record of the vehicle liable to the Village for the administrative
fees of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). If, after a hearing, the
hearing officer does not determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
the vehicle was used in violation of section
6-10-2 of this Code, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding for the
owner and ordering the return of the vehicle.
   E.   If the owner of record fails to request a hearing in a timely manner or
fails to appear at the hearing, the owner of record shall be deemed to have
waived the owner's right to a hearing, and the hearing officer may enter a
default order in favor of the Village in the amount of the administrative fees.
However, if the owner of record pays such penalty and the vehicle is returned
to the owner, no default order need be entered if the owner is informed of his
or her right to a hearing and signs a written waiver, in which case, an order
of liability shall be deemed to have been made when the Village receives the
written waiver.
(Ord. 2004-12-1G, 12-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-10-9, 10-9-2023)
6-10-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR RECOVERY OF VEHICLE:
   A.   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall remain impounded
until:
      1.   The administrative fees of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
is paid to the Village and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing
agent, in which case, the owner of record shall be given possession of the
vehicle,
      2.   A bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) is
posted with the Village, and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing
agent, at which time, the vehicle will be released to the owner of record; or
      3.   The vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case, the vehicle shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned
vehicles.
   B.   A fee imposed pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a debt due and
owing the Village.
(Ord. 2004-12-1G, 12-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-10-9, 10-9-2023)
6-10-6: POSTING BOND:
   A.   If a bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) is
posted with the Public Safety Department, the impounded vehicle shall be
released to the owner of record, and the owner of the vehicle shall still be
liable to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees.
   B.   If a seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) fee is imposed pursuant to
this chapter, the bond will be forfeited to the Village; however, if a
violation of this chapter is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the
bond will be returned to the person posting the bond, and all towing fees shall
be waived.
   C.   All bond money posted pursuant to this chapter shall be held by the
Village until the hearing officer issues a decision or, if there is a judicial
review, until a final order is entered in the judicial proceeding in which
review is sought.
(Ord. 2004-12-1G, 12-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-10-9, 10-9-2023)
6-10-7: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE:
Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed or subject to judicial review within
thirty-five (35) days after the administrative hearing officer issues a final
written decision shall be deemed abandoned disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle
as provided by law.
(Ord. 2004-12-1G, 12-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-10-9, 10-9-2023)
CHAPTER 11: REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
6-11-1:   Definitions
6-11-2:   Authority To Remove
6-11-3:   Notice To Department Of Public Safety
6-11-4:   Notices Posted On Property
6-11-5:   Insurance Required
6-11-6:   Voluntary Removal Of Vehicle
6-11-7:   Penalties
6-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
OWNER: The owner, agent or lessee, or any other person in possession or control
of the premises.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative, syndicate,
association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business trust,
institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation, district or
other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator,
user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other representatives
acting either for himself or for any other person in any capacity, or any other
entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine,
feminine, singular or plural is included in any circumstances.
TOW: That event which takes place when the towing vehicle is attached to the
towed vehicle.
TOWING FIRM: Any individual, partnership, corporation or association of
individuals in the business of towing vehicles.
UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any vehicle parked or abandoned on
private property without the consent of the property owner or his authorized
agent.
(Ord. 76-12-15B, 12-15-1976)
6-11-2: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE:
   A.   Any person owning or in possession of private property within the
Village may provide for the removal of unauthorized motor vehicles from such
property within the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   B.   The removal of unauthorized vehicles from private property shall only
be upon the written authorization of the owner or person entitled to possession
of said property to the towing company which will carry out the tow. The
written authorization must contain a description of the specific auto and State
license plate numbers of the vehicle to be towed. Contracts for the general
removal of all vehicles from private property within the Village are hereby
prohibited.
(Ord. 76-12-15B, 12-15-1976)
6-11-3: NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY:
Within thirty (30) minutes of any tow authorized by this chapter, the person
giving authorization for the removal of the car shall notify the Department of
Public Safety of the time of the tow and shall provide the following
information:
   A.   The address of the property from which the car has been towed.
   B.   The name and address of the owner or other person authorizing the tow.
   C.   The name and address of the towing service.
   D.   The name and address of the person or firm carrying out the tow, and
the license plate number of the towing truck utilized.
   E.   The time at which the authorization was given and at which the tow took
place.
   F.   The year and make and license plate number of the vehicle towed.
   G.   The location where the vehicle may be picked up.
   H.   The towing and any storage charge for the pick up of the vehicle.
   I.   Any witnesses to the tow.
   J.   The signatures of the person authorizing the tow and of the person
towing the vehicle.
(Ord. 76-12-15B, 12-15-1976)
6-11-4: NOTICES POSTED ON PROPERTY:
Any person who desires to authorize the towing of unattended vehicles from his
property shall post the property with a notice of the possibility of such
towing at all entrances and exits to the parking areas in clear view, free from
the interference of any natural or manmade objects. The lettering on these
signs shall be in prominent type, at least two inches (2") high, and in a color
that contrasts with the background color of the sign. Such sign must also be
legible at night. This sign shall contain the following information:
   A.   The fact that parking is prohibited and that the towing of unauthorized
vehicles will take place.
   B.   The location to which the vehicles will be towed, a telephone number at
the Village location, and the name and address of the towing company.
   C.   The charge for pick up of the vehicle.
(Ord. 76-12-15B, 12-15-1976)
6-11-5: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall tow any vehicle from private property, nor shall any person
accept and store a vehicle towed from private property unless, at the time of
the tow, there shall be insurance in effect in the name of the person covering
damage in an amount as required by the Village.
(Ord. 76-12-15B, 12-15-1976)
6-11-6: VOLUNTARY REMOVAL OF VEHICLE:
No vehicle may be towed by any person from private property if the owner or
other person entitled to possession of the vehicle is present and offers to
remove the vehicle voluntarily prior to the time the person attempting to tow
removes the vehicle from the premises in question; provided, that the owner or
other person removes the vehicle immediately.
(Ord. 76-12-15B, 12-15-1976)
6-11-7: PENALTIES:
Any person in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for the first offense, and not less than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the
second and each subsequent offense. Repeated offenses in excess of three (3)
may also be punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration in the County Jail for
a term not to exceed six (6) months under the procedure set forth in section 1-
2-1.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code and under the provisions of the Illinois
Code of Criminal Procedure (725 ILCS 5/100-1 et seq.) in a separate proceeding.
(Ord. 76-12-15B, 12-15-1976)
CHAPTER 12: PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS PENSION FUND
Section
6-12-1:    Establishment And Amendment Of Fund
6-12-2:    Definitions
6-12-3:   Village
6-12-4:   Board
6-12-5:   Pensioner, Deferred Pensioner, Fund Beneficiary
6-12-6:   Public Safety Officer, Officer
6-12-7:   Permanent Disability
6-12-8:   Gender
6-12-9:   Child Or Children
6-12-10:   Dependent Parent
6-12-10.5:   Consumer Price Index-U
6-12-11:   Persons Excluded
6-12-12:   Creditable Service
6-12-13:   Pension
6-12-14:   Increase In Pension
6-12-15:   Pension To Survivors
6-12-15.5:   Temporary Disability
6-12-16:   Disability Pension - Line Of Duty
6-12-17:   Disability Pension - Not On Duty
6-12-18:   Occupational Disease Disability Pension
6-12-19:   Determination Of Disability
6-12-20:   Return To Active Duty After Disability
6-12-21:   Reduction Of Disability And Survivor's Benefits For Corresponding
Benefits Payable Under Workers' Compensation And Workers' Occupational Disease
Acts And Compliance With The Internal Revenue Code
6-12-22:   Disability Pension Option
6-12-23:   Emergency Service
6-12-24:   Public Safety Officers Over Age 50
6-12-25:   Waiver
6-12-26:   Marriage After Retirement
6-12-27:   Pensions Cease On Marriage
6-12-28:   Pension To Survivors Of Male And Female Public Safety Officers
6-12-29:   Non-Resident Pensioner
6-12-30:   Eligibility Of Children
6-12-31:   Refund
6-12-32:   Re-Entry Into Active Service
6-12-33:   Medical Insurance Benefits
6-12-34:   Financing
6-12-35:   Contributions By Public Safety Officers
6-12-36:   Pick Up Of Contributions
6-12-37:   Reserves
6-12-38:   Board Created
6-12-39:   Board Meetings
6-12-40:   Powers And Duties Of Board
6-12-41:   To Control And Manage The Fund
6-12-42:   To Order Payments And Issue Certificates
6-12-43:   To Submit Annual List Of Fund Payments
6-12-44:   To Draw And Invest Funds And Appoint Investment Advisors
6-12-45:   To Subpoena Witnesses
6-12-46:   To Make Rules
6-12-47:   To Accept Donations
6-12-48:   To Appoint Clerk
6-12-49:   To Pay Expenses
6-12-50:   To Keep Records
6-12-51:   To Enforce Contributions
6-12-52:   Additional Powers
6-12-53:   Audit
6-12-54:   Payment Of Benefits - Funds Insufficient
6-12-55:   Report By Board
6-12-56:   Overpayment - Deduction
6-12-57:   Felony Conviction
6-12-58:   Contractual Right
6-12-59:   Repeal Of Prior Provisions
6-12-60:   Separability
6-12-61:   Exercise Of Home Rule Powers
6-12-62:   Military Service Provisions
6-12-63:   IRS Compliance Provisions
6-12-64:   Limitations On Contributions And Benefits
6-12-65:   Effective Date
6-12-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND AMENDMENT OF FUND:
   A.   The Public Safety Officers Pension Fund for the Village of Rosemont
(the "Fund") established by Ordinance No. 86-11-5B and thereafter amended is
hereby comprehensively restated and amended in its entirety. All assets and
liabilities of the "Police Pension Fund" established pursuant to Village of
Rosemont Ordinance No. 75-10-15A shall be assets and liabilities of the Fund.
As used in this chapter the term "Fund" includes the Public Safety Officers
Pension Fund and the "Police Pension Fund" established pursuant to Village of
Rosemont Ordinance No. 75-10-15A. The Fund is established as a qualified
governmental defined benefit plan pursuant to Sections 401(a) and 414(d) of the
Internal Revenue Code and such other provisions as applicable, as well as
applicable Treasury Regulations and other guidance.
   B.   The assets of the Fund shall never inure to the benefit of the Village
and shall be held for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to Public
Safety Officers and their beneficiaries and defraying reasonable expenses of
administering the Fund.
   C.   The trust fund must not revert, and no contributions shall be permitted
to be returned to the Village, except as permitted by Revenue Ruling 91-4 under
a mistake of fact.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
The terms in this chapter have the meanings ascribed to them in section
6-12-1 and sections
6-12-3 through
6-12-10.5 of this chapter except when the context otherwise requires. All
references to the Internal Revenue Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-3: VILLAGE:
VILLAGE. The Village of Rosemont.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-4: BOARD:
BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Fund as established in section
6-12-38 .
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-5: PENSIONER, DEFERRED PENSIONER, FUND BENEFICIARY:
   A.   PENSIONER. A public safety officer receiving a disability, occupational
disease disability or retirement pension under this chapter.
   B.   DEFERRED PENSIONER. A Public Safety Officer who has retired having
accumulated enough creditable service to qualify for a pension, but who has not
attained the required age.
   C.   FUND BENEFICIARY. Any person to whom pension payments are made pursuant
to this chapter. If a special needs trust as described in Section 1396p(d)(4)
of Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended from time to time, has been
established for a disabled adult child, then the special needs trust may stand
in lieu of the disabled adult child as a beneficiary for the purposes of this
Article.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-6: PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER, OFFICER:
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER or OFFICER. Any person who (1) is appointed by the Board
of Public Safety Commissioners to the Village's Public Safety Department and
sworn and commissioned to perform public safety duties or was appointed by the
Village's Board of Fire and Police Commissioners prior to October 1, 1975 to
the Police Department or the Fire Department of the Village; and (2) within
three (3) months after receiving his or her first appointment, and if
reappointed, within three (3) months thereafter, makes written application to
the Board to come under the provisions of this chapter The Superintendent of
the Department of Public Safety shall not be considered to be a "Public Safety
Officer" or "Officer" while serving as the Superintendent of the Department of
Public Safety unless such person was actively serving as a Public Safety
Officer immediately prior to his or her appointment to be Director. The Deputy
Superintendent of the Department of Public Safety shall not be considered to be
a "Public Safety Officer" or "Officer" while serving as the Deputy
Superintendent. A Public Safety Officer serving a probationary period following
his or her initial appointment, if otherwise eligible, is an Officer within the
meaning of this section. Persons who served as full-time police officers or
firefighters of the Village prior to October 1, 1975, if otherwise eligible,
shall be Public Safety Officers within the meaning of this section.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-7: PERMANENT DISABILITY:
PERMANENT DISABILITY. Any physical or mental disability that (1) can be
expected to result in death, (2) has lasted for a continuous period of not less
than 12 months, or (3) can be expected to last for a continuous period of not
less than 12 months.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-8: GENDER:
GENDER. The masculine gender whenever used in this chapter includes the female
gender unless manifestly inconsistent with the context.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-9: CHILD OR CHILDREN:
CHILD or CHILDREN. "Child" or "children" includes a public safety officer's
natural and legally adopted children. Adopted children shall be eligible for
benefits only if the judicial proceedings for adoption were commenced at least
one year prior to the death or disability of the public safety officer and in
any event prior to his or her attainment of age fifty (50).
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-10: DEPENDENT PARENT:
DEPENDENT PARENT. A parent who furnishes satisfactory proof that the deceased
public safety officer at the time of his or her death was the sole support of
the parent or that the parent was the dependent of the deceased public safety
officer for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-10.5: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX-U:
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX-U. The index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
of the United States Department of Labor that measures the average change in
prices of goods and services purchased by all urban consumers, United States
city average, all items, 1982-84 = 100.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-11: PERSONS EXCLUDED:
The following persons shall not be entitled to participate in the Fund: (1) Any
person who is not a Public Safety Officer as defined in section
6-12-6 of this chapter, including but not limited to part-time public safety
officers, security specialists, temporary employees, auxiliary public safety
officers, clerks or other civilian employees assigned to the public safety
department who perform clerical duties exclusively; or (2) any Public Safety
Officer who fails to pay the contributions required under section
6-12-35, computed (i) for a person who was hired as an Officer prior to April
30, 1975, from the date the Village established the Fund, or (ii) for Public
Safety Officers hired after April 30, 1975, from the date of a Public Safety
Officer's first appointment (including an appointment on probation), and
continuing during his or her entire service as a Public Safety Officer. A
Public Safety Officer who is reappointed shall, before being declared eligible
to participate in the Fund, repay to the Fund as required by section
6-12-31 any refund received thereunder.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-12:   CREDITABLE SERVICE:
"Creditable service" is the time served by a Public Safety Officer as an
officer of the Village's Public Safety Department. Any time served as a full-
time police officer of the Village's police department prior to October 1, 1975
and any time served as a full-time firefighter of the Village's fire department
prior to October 1, 1975 shall be included in the determination of creditable
service. In computing creditable service, furloughs without pay exceeding
thirty (30) days shall not be counted, but leaves of absence for illness or
accident (Including periods when Village provided or Pension Board Temporary
Disability Benefits have been provided), regardless of length, and all periods
of disability retirement for which a Public Safety Officer has received no
disability pension payments under this chapter shall be counted.
Creditable service includes:
   A.   Up to three (3) years during which a Public Safety Officer receives a
disability pension under sections
6-12-16,
6-12-17 and
6-12-18 of this chapter provided that:
      1.   The Public Safety Officer returns to active service after the
disability for a period at least equal to the period for which credit is to be
established; and
      2.   The Public Safety Officer makes contributions to the Fund based on
the rates specified in section
6-12-35 of this chapter and the salary upon which the disability pension is
based. These contributions may be paid at any time prior to the commencement of
a retirement pension. The Public Safety Officer may, but need not, elect to
have the contributions deducted from his or her disability pension or to pay
them in installments on a schedule approved by the Board. If not deducted from
the disability pension, the contributions shall included interest at the rate
of six percent (6%) per year, compounded annually, from the date for which
service credit is being established to the date of payment. If contributions
are paid under this subsection in excess of those needed to establish the
credit, the excess shall be refunded. This subsection applies to Public Safety
Officers receiving a disability pension under sections
6-12-16,
6-12-17 and
6-12-18 on October 1, 2000, as well as Public Safety Officers who begin to
receive such a disability pension after that date; and
   B.   1.   All periods of service in the military, naval or air forces of the
United States entered upon while an active Public Safety Officer of the
Village, either on account of any war in which the United States was a
belligerent party, or as required by Act of Congress, provided that upon
applying for a permanent pension, and in accordance with the rules of the
Board, the Public Safety Officer pays into the Fund the amount the Officer
would have contributed if he or she had been a regular contributor during such
period, to the extent that the Village has not made such contributions on the
Officer's behalf. The total amount of such creditable service shall not exceed
five (5) years.
      2.   Effective with respect to deaths occurring on or after January 1,
2007, while a Public Safety Officer is performing qualified military service
(as defined in chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code), to the extent
required by Section 401(a)(37) of the Internal Revenue Code, survivors of the
deceased Officer are entitled to any additional benefits that the Fund would
provide if the Officer had resumed employment and then died, such as
accelerated vesting or survivor benefits that are contingent on the Officer's
death while employed. In any event, a deceased Officer's period of qualified
military service must be counted as creditable service for vesting purposes.
      3.   Effective with respect to deaths and/or disabilities occurring on or
after January 1, 2007, while a Public Safety Officer is performing qualified
military service (as defined in chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code), to
the extent permitted by Section 414(u)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code for all
creditable service purposes, the Officer will be treated as having earned years
of creditable service for the period of qualified military service, having
returned to employment on the day before the death and/or disability, and then
having terminated on the date of death or disability. This provision shall be
applied to all similarly situated individuals in a reasonably equivalent
manner.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2021-2-8E, 2-8-2021)
6-12-13:   PENSION:
   A.   1.   A public safety officer age fifty (50) or more with twenty (20) or
more years of creditable service, who is no longer in service as a Public
Safety Officer, shall receive a lifetime pension of 1/2 of the salary attached
to the rank of Public Safety Officer held on the date of retirement or 1/2 of
the highest salary paid to the Public Safety Officer during a calendar year for
the five (5) calendar years immediately prior to retirement, whichever is
higher. A public safety officer shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested in
his or her pension retirement benefit upon attaining eligibility for a pension
under this Section. If an Officer was on an approved leave of absence on the
date of retirement, then the pension the Officer shall be entitled to receive
shall be equal to 1/2 the salary attached on the date of retirement to the rank
the Public Safety Officer held immediately prior to going on the leave of
absence, or 1/2 the highest salary paid or which would have been paid to the
Public Safety Officer, had the officer not been on a leave of absence, during a
calendar year for the five (5) calendar years immediately prior to retirement,
whichever is higher, provided that contributions were made to the Fund by or on
behalf of the Officer for the period the Officer was on the approved leave of
absence. As of January 1, 1999, the pension shall be increased from 2.0% to
2.5% of such salary for each additional year of service over twenty (20) years,
to a maximum of seventy five percent (75%) of such salary. This increase
applies to all pensions that became payable on or after January 1, 1999. All
pensions payable under this section that began on or after January 1, 1999 and
before October 1, 2000 shall be recalculated, and the amount of the increase
accruing for that period shall be payable to the public safety officer in a
lump sum. No pension shall be less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
month.
      2.   As of January 1, 1999, the minimum retirement pension for a Public
Safety Officer having at least twenty (20) years of creditable service shall be
six hundred dollars ($600.00) per month, without regard to whether he or she
was in service on or after October 1, 2000. A Public Safety Officer whose
pension began prior to October 1, 2000 and is subject to this increase, shall
be entitled to a lump sum payment of the amount of that increase accruing from
January 1, 1999, or the date the pension began, if later, to October 1, 2000.
As of October 1, 2000, the minimum retirement pension for a public safety
officer having at least twenty (20) years of creditable service shall be eight
hundred dollars ($800.00) per month, without regard to whether he or she was in
service on or after October 1, 2000. As of January 1, 2001, the minimum
retirement pension for a public safety officer having at least twenty (20)
years of creditable service shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
month, without regard to whether he or she was in service on or after October
1, 2000.
   B.   A Public Safety Officer mandatorily retired from service due to age by
operation of law, having at least eight (8) but less than twenty (20) years of
creditable service, shall receive a pension equal to 2.5% of the salary
attached to the rank he or she held on the Public Safety Department for one
year immediately prior to retirement for each year of creditable service.
   C.   A Public Safety Officer who retires or is separated from service having
at least eight (8) years but less than twenty (20) years of creditable service,
who is not mandatorily retired due to age by operation of law, and who does not
apply for a refund of contributions at his or her last separation from service,
shall receive a pension upon attaining age sixty (60) equal to 2.5% of the
salary attached to the rank held by the Officer on the Public Safety Department
for one year immediately prior to retirement, for each year of creditable
service.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, the provisions of
this subsection D apply to a person who first becomes a Public Safety Officer
on or after January 1, 2012. A Public Safety Officer age fifty five (55) or
more who has ten (10) or more years of service in that capacity shall be
entitled at his option to receive a monthly pension for his service as a Public
Safety Officer computed by multiplying 2.5% for each year of such service by
his or her final average salary. The pension of a Public Safety Officer who is
retiring after attaining age fifty (50) with ten (10) or more years of
creditable service shall be reduced by one-half of 1% for each month that the
Public Safety Officer's age is under age 55. The maximum pension under this
subsection D shall be seventy five percent (75%) of final average salary. For
the purposes of this subsection D, "final average salary" means the average
monthly salary obtained by dividing the total salary of the Public Safety
Officer during the ninety six (96) consecutive months of service within the
last one huundred twenty (120) months of service in which the total salary was
the highest by the number of months of service in that period. Beginning on
January 1, 2012, for all purposes under this chapter (including without
limitation the calculation of benefits and employee contributions), the annual
salary based on the plan year of a member or participant to whom this section
applies shall not exceed $106,800.00; however, that amount shall annually
thereafter be increased by the lesser of (i) three percent (3%) of that amount,
including all previous adjustments, or (ii) one-half the annual unadjusted
percentage increase (but not less than zero) in the consumer price index-u for
the twelve (12) months ending with the September preceding each November 1,
including all previous adjustments.
   E.   [Reserved].
   F.   After August 10, 2016 when determining the additional years of service
over twenty (20) years under subsection A1, or the number of years of
creditable service under subsections B, C, D, and E, the practice of
determining the number of years of creditable service by including partial
years shall be used, with partial years being determined by dividing the number
of full months of creditable service in the partial year by twelve (12).
   G.   The Fund shall pay all benefits in accordance with a good faith
interpretation of the requirements of Section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the
Treasury Regulations in effect under that section, as applicable to a
governmental plan within the meaning of Section 414(d) of the Internal Revenue
Code. The Fund is subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Distribution of a Public Safety Officer's benefit must begin by the
required beginning date, which is the later of the April 1 following the
calendar year in which the officer attains age 70½ or April 1 of the year
following the calendar year in which the officer terminates or retires. If a
Public Safety Officer who qualifies for a pension benefit fails to apply for
benefits by the later of either of those dates, the board shall begin
distribution of the monthly benefit in the form provided in subsection A.
      2.   As a lifetime benefit, the Public Safety Officer's entire interest
must be distributed over the Public Safety Officer's life or the lives of the
Officer and a designated beneficiary, or over a period not extending beyond the
life expectancy of the Officer or of the Officer and a designated beneficiary.
      3.   The Fund, pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, may
establish separate benefits for a Public Safety Officer and a non-public safety
officer.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2016-8-10E, 8-10-2016; Ord. 2022-12-
12C, 12-12-2022)
6-12-14:   INCREASE IN PENSION:
   A.   The monthly pension of a Public Safety Officer who retired prior to
January 1, 1988, shall be increased, upon either the first of the month
following the first anniversary of the date of retirement if the Officer was
sixty (60) years of age or over at retirement date, or upon the first day of
the month following attainment of age sixty (60), if it occurs after the first
anniversary of retirement, by three percent (3%) of the originally granted
pension, and by an additional three percent (3%) of the originally granted
pension in January of each year thereafter.
   B.   The monthly pension of a Public Safety Officer who is receiving a
disability pension, shall be increased in January of the year following the
year the Public Safety Officer attains age sixty by 1/12 of three percent (3%)
of the originally granted monthly pension for each full month that has elapsed
since the pension began. On each January thereafter, such Public Safety Officer
shall receive an additional increase of three percent (3%) of the original
monthly pension.
   C.   As of January 1, 1999, the monthly pension of a Public Safety Officer
who retired on or after January 1, 1988 and before January 1, 1990, shall be
increased, upon either the first of the month following the first anniversary
of the date of retirement if the Officer is fifty-five (55) years of age or
over, or upon the first day of the month following attainment of age fifty-five
(55) if it occurs after the first anniversary of retirement, by 1/12 of three
percent (3%) of the originally granted pension for each full month that has
elapsed since the pension began, and by an additional three percent (3%) of the
originally granted monthly pension each January thereafter.
   D.   As of January 1, 1999, the monthly pension of a Public Safety Officer
who retired on or after January 1, 1990, shall, upon either the first month
following the first anniversary date of retirement if fifty-five years of age
or over, or upon the first day of the month following attainment of age fifty-
five if it occurs after the first anniversary of retirement, be increased by 1/
12 of three percent (3%) of the originally granted monthly pension for each
full month that has elapsed since the pension began, and by an additional three
percent (3%) in each January thereafter.
   E.   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, beginning with
increases granted on or after January 1, 1995, the second and all subsequent
automatic annual increases granted under subsection A, C, or D of this section
shall be calculated as three percent (3%) of the amount of pension payable at
the time of the increase, including any increases previously granted under this
section, rather than three percent (3%) of the originally granted pension
amount.
   F.   The increases in pension granted as of January 1, 1999 in subsections C
and D of this Section apply to all initial increases that become payable under
subsections C and D on or after January 1, 1999. All initial increases that
became payable under subsection C and D on or after January 1, 1999 and before
October 1, 2000 shall be recalculated and the additional amount accruing for
that period, if any, shall be payable to the Public Safety Officer in a lump
sum.
   G.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the monthly
pension of a person who first becomes a Public Safety Officer on or after
January 1, 2012 shall be increased on the January 1 occurring either on or
after the attainment of age sixty (60) or the first anniversary of the pension
start date, whichever is later and on each subsequent January 1 thereafter. The
initial January 1 increase and each subsequent January 1 increase following the
initial January 1 increase shall be calculated at three percent (3%) or one-
half the annual unadjusted percentage increase (but not less than zero) in the
consumer price index-u for the twelve (12) months ending with the September
preceding each January 1 on which an increase is payable, whichever is less, of
the originally granted pension. If the annual unadjusted percentage change in
the consumer price index-u for a twelve (12) month period ending in September
is zero or, when compared with the preceding period, decreases, then the
pension shall not be increased.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-15:   PENSION TO SURVIVORS:
   A.   Upon the death of a Public Safety Officer entitled to a pension under
section
6-12-13, the surviving spouse shall be entitled to the pension to which the
Public Safety Officer was then entitled. Upon the death of the surviving
spouse, or if the spouse remarries prior to January 1, 1995, the Public Safety
Officer's unmarried children who are under age 18 or who are dependent because
of physical or mental disability shall be entitled to equal shares of such
pension. If there is no eligible surviving spouse and no eligible child, the
dependent parent or parents of the Officer shall be entitled to receive or
share such pension until their death or marriage or remarriage after the death
of the Public Safety Officer. Remarriage of the surviving spouse on or after
January 1, 1995 does not affect the surviving spouse's pension, regardless of
whether the deceased Public Safety Officer was in service on or after the
effective date of Ordinance 95-2-1H. In any case, the survivor's pension, if
any, shall be distributed monthly.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, for a person who first
becomes a Public Safety Officer under this chapter or after January 1, 2012,
the pension to which the surviving spouse, children, or parents are entitled
under this subsection A shall be in the amount of 66% of the Public Safety
Officer's earned pension at the date of death. Nothing in this subsection A
shall act to diminish the survivor's benefits described in subsection F of this
Section.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the monthly pension of
a survivor of a person who first becomes a Public Safety Officer under this
chapter on or after January 1, 2012 shall be increased on the January 1 after
attainment of age sixty (60) by the recipient of the survivor's pension and
each January 1 thereafter by three percent (3%) or one-half the annual
unadjusted percentage increase (but not less than zero) in the consumer price
index-u for the twelve (12) months ending with the September preceding each
November 1, whichever is less, of the originally granted survivor's pension. If
the annual unadjusted percentage change in the consumer price index-u for a
twelve (12) month period ending in September is zero or, when compared with the
preceding period, decreases, then the survivor's pension shall not be
increased.
   B.   Upon the death of a Public Safety Officer while in service, having at
least twenty (20) years of creditable service, or upon the death of a Public
Safety Officer who retired from service with at least twenty (20) years of
creditable service, whether death occurs before or after attainment of age
fifty (50), the pension earned by the Public Safety Officer as of the date of
death as provided in section
6-12-13 shall be paid to the survivors in the sequence provided in subsection A
of this section. As of January 1, 1995, the monthly pension to the surviving
spouse shall be as provided in section
6-12-13 or fifty-four percent (54%) of the salary attached to the rank or ranks
held by the Officer for one year immediately prior to death, whichever is
greater.
   C.   Upon the death of a Public Safety Officer while in service, having at
least eight (8) but less than twenty (20) years of service, a pension of fifty-
four percent (54%) of the salary attached to the rank or ranks held by the
Officer for one year immediately prior to death shall be payable to the
survivors in the sequence provided in subsection A of this section. If death
occurs as a result of the performance of duty, the eight (8) year requirement
shall not apply and the pension to survivors shall be payable after any period
of service.
   D.   If a Public Safety Officer dies before distribution of the officer's
benefits has begun, the Officer's entire interest must be distributed within
five (5) years of his death, unless it is to be distributed in accordance with
the following rules:
      1.   If the Public Safety Officer's surviving spouse is the sole
beneficiary under subsection A, the surviving spouse's benefit shall commence
immediately, and in any event, shall begin to be distributed by December 31 of
the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the officer
died; or
      2.   If the Public Safety Officer's surviving spouse is not the sole
beneficiary under subsection A, the survivor's benefits shall be distributed
over the period defined in subsection A, and in no event longer than the life
of the survivor, and such distribution shall begin no later than December 31 of
the calendar year immediately following the calendar year of the officer's
death.
   E.   As of January 1, 1999, a minimum pension of six hundred dollars
($600.00) per month shall be paid to all surviving spouses, without regard to
whether the deceased Public Safety Officer was in service on or after October
1, 2000. As of October 1, 2000, the minimum pension to all surviving spouses
shall be eight hundred dollars ($800.00) per month, without regard to whether
the deceased Public Safety Officer was in service on or after October 1, 2000.
As of January 1, 2001, the minimum pension to all surviving spouses shall be
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month, without regard to whether the
deceased Public Safety Officer was in service on or after October 1, 2000.
   F.   Beginning January 1, 2000, the pension of the surviving spouse of a
Public Safety Officer who dies on or after January 1, 1994 as a result of
sickness, accident, or injury incurred in or resulting from the performance of
an act of duty or from the cumulative effects of acts of duty shall not be less
than one hundred percent (100%) of the salary attached to the rank held by the
deceased Public Safety Officer on the last day of service, notwithstanding any
other subsections or provisions of this section.
   G.   The amount of benefit paid to a Public Safety Officer's survivors may
not exceed the maximum determined under the incidental death benefit
requirement of Section 401(a)(9)(G) of the Internal Revenue Code, and the
minimum distribution incidental benefit rule under Treasury Regulation Section
1.401(a)(9)-6, Q&A-2.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-15.5:   TEMPORARY DISABILITY:
A full-time sworn Public Safety Officer who is unable to perform his or her
regular unrestricted full duties as an employee for longer than thirty (30)
consecutive days because of an illness or injury that does not entitle them to
benefits under either the Illinois Workers' Compensation Act (820 ILCS 305/1 et
seq.) or the Illinois Workers' Occupational Diseases Act (820 ILCS 310/1 et
seq.) may apply for Temporary Disability Benefits. An Officer that is receiving
sick leave benefits from the Village shall not be eligible for any Temporary
Disability Benefits for the same period sick leave benefits are being received.
The application shall be on such forms supplied by the Board of Trustees of the
Public Safety Officers' Pension Fund ("Pension Board") and must include a
written verification from a licensed physician verifying the reason the Officer
cannot perform his/her full unrestricted duties for a period that is longer
than thirty (30) consecutive days. The burden shall be on the applicant to
establish that they will not be able to perform their full unrestricted duties
for a period that is longer than thirty (30) consecutive days. The applicant's
failure to comply with the Pension Board's reasonable request for information
to establish an Officer's inability to perform their full unrestricted duties
for a period that is longer than thirty (30) consecutive days shall be cause to
deny Temporary Disability Benefits. The Pension Board, at its expense, may, in
its sole discretion, obtain a medical examination from one or more appropriate
physicians chosen by the Pension Board in order to verify the Officer's
eligibility for Temporary Disability Benefits.
If the Pension Board finds that the Officer is eligible for Temporary
Disability Benefits, the Officer shall not receive any Temporary Disability
Benefits payable from the Public Safety Officers' Pension Fund for the first
thirty (30) consecutive days after the later of either: (1) the date their
temporary disability began; or (2) the last day they received sick leave
benefits from the Village. During this thirty (30) consecutive day period, the
Officer may receive Village provided Temporary Disability benefits if such
benefits are provided by the Village. At the expiration of this thirty (30)
consecutive day period, an Officer found to be eligible for Temporary
Disability Benefits by the Pension Board shall begin to receive an amount equal
to fifty percent (50%) of their salary attached to their rank from the Public
Safety Officers' Pension Fund. The calculation of the amount that is fifty
percent (50%) of the salary attached to the Officer's rank shall be calculated
as of the first day the Officer's temporary disability began. The amount
received shall be subject to reduction by all taxes and other payroll
deductions as may be required. An Officer eligible to receive Temporary
Disability Benefits from the Public Safety Officers' Pension Fund shall not
receive Temporary Disability Benefits for a period of time that exceeds the
earlier of: (1) the date the Officer is able to return to work; (2) a period of
time equal to one-half (½) of the Officer's creditable service as determined
pursuant to section 6-12-12; or (3) a period that does not exceed thirty (30)
months.
(Ord. 2021-2-8E, 2-8-2021)
6-12-16:   DISABILITY PENSION - LINE OF DUTY:
If a Public Safety Officer, as a result of sickness or injury incurred in or
resulting from the performance of an act of duty or from the cumulative effects
of acts of duty, is found by the Board to be physically or mentally permanently
disabled for service in the Public Safety Department as a Public Safety
Officer, so as to render his or her being placed on disability pension, the
Public Safety Officer shall be entitled to a disability pension equal to the
greater of (i) sixty five percent (65%) of the monthly salary attached to the
rank held by him or her in the Public Safety Department on the date he or she
is removed from the payroll of the Village's Public Safety Department as a
Public Safety Officer or (ii) the retirement pension that the Public Safety
Officer would be eligible to receive if he or she retired, but not including
any automatic annual increase in that retirement pension. A Public Safety
Officer shall be considered "on duty" when on any assignment approved by the
Superintendent of the Public Safety Department, even though away from the
Village, if the assignment is related to the public safety service of the
Village. If a Public Safety Officer on disability pension dies while still
disabled, the disability pension shall continue to be paid to the Officer's
survivors in the sequence provided in subsection
6-12-15A.
As of January 1, 1999, the minimum disability pension for a Public Safety
Officer shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) per month, without regard to
whether he or she was in service on or after October 1, 2000. A Public Safety
Officer whose pension began prior to October 1, 2000 and is subject to this
increase, shall be entitled to a lump sum payment of the amount of that
increase accruing from January 1, 1999, or the date the pension began, if
later, to October 1, 2000. As of October 1, 2000, the minimum disability
pension for a Public Safety Officer shall be eight hundred dollars ($800.00)
per month, without regard to whether he or she was in service on or after
October 1, 2000. As of January 1, 2001, the minimum disability pension for a
Public Safety Officer shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month,
without regard to whether he or she was in service on or after October 1, 2000.
Such Public Safety Officer shall also be entitled to a child's disability
benefit of twenty dollars ($20.00) a month on account of each unmarried child
less than eighteen (18) years of age and dependent upon the Public Safety
Officer for support, either the issue of the Public Safety Officer or legally
adopted by him or her. The total amount of the child's disability benefit
payable to the public safety officer, when added to his or her disability
pension, shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the amount of salary
which the Public Safety Officer was receiving at the date of retirement.
Benefits payable on account of a child under this section shall not be reduced
or terminated by reason of the child's attainment of age eighteen (18) if he or
she is then dependent by reason of a physical or mental disability but shall
continue to be paid as along as such dependency continues. Individuals over the
age of eighteen (18) and adjudged to be disabled persons pursuant to Article
Xla of the Probate Act of 1975, except for persons receiving benefits under
Article III of the Illinois Public Aid Code, shall be eligible to receive
benefits under this section.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-17:   DISABILITY PENSION - NOT ON DUTY:
A Public Safety Officer who becomes disabled as a result of any cause other
than the performance of an act of duty, and who is found to be physically or
mentally disabled so as to render necessary his or her suspension or retirement
from service in the Public Safety Department, as a Public Safety Officer, shall
be entitled to a disability pension of fifty percent (50%) of the salary
attached to the Officer's rank in the public safety department on the date of
suspension of duty or retirement. If a Public Safety Officer on disability
pension dies while still disabled, the disability pension shall continue to be
paid to the Officer's survivors in the sequence provided in subsection
6-12-15A.
As of January 1, 1999, the minimum disability pension for a Public Safety
Officer shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) per month, without regard to
whether he or she was in service on or after October 1, 2000. A Public Safety
Officer whose pension began prior to October 1, 2000 and is subject to this
increase, shall be entitled to a lump sum payment of the amount of that
increase accruing from January 1, 1999, or the date the pension began, if
later, to October 1, 2000. As of October 1, 2000, the minimum disability
pension for a Public Safety Officer shall be eight hundred dollars ($800.00)
per month, without regard to whether he or she was in service on or after
October 1, 2000. As of January 1, 2001, the minimum disability pension for a
Public Safety Officer shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month,
without regard to whether he or she was in service on or after October 1, 2000.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-18:   OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE DISABILITY PENSION:
An active Public Safety Officer who served after April 30, 1975 and has five
(5) or more years of creditable service who is found by the Board to be unable
to perform his or her duties in the Public Safety Department by reason of heart
disease, stroke, tuberculosis, or any disease of the lungs or respiratory
tract, resulting from service as a Public Safety Officer, is entitled to an
occupational disease disability pension during any period of such disability
for which he or she has no right to receive salary.
Any Public Safety Officer who served after April 30, 1975 and has five (5) or
more years of creditable service and is unable to perform his or her duties in
the Public Safety Department by reason of a disabling cancer, which develops or
manifests itself during a period while the Public Safety Officer is in the
active service of the Public Safety Department, shall be entitled to receive an
occupational disease disability benefit during any period of such disability
for which he or she does not have a right to receive salary. In order to
receive this occupational disease disability benefit, (i) the type of cancer
involved must be a type which may be caused by exposure to heat, radiation or a
known carcinogen as defined by the International Agency for Research on Cancer,
and (ii) the cancer must, and is rebuttably presumed to, arise as a result of
service as a Public Safety Officer.
A Public Safety Officer who retired prior to the effective date of Ordinance
86-11-5B shall be entitled to apply to the Board for benefits under this
Section. Upon receipt of such an application the Board shall determine whether
the applicant meets the requirements of this Section. If the Board determines
the applicant does meet the requirements, the applicant shall receive benefits
retroactive to the date the applicant was removed from the Public Safety
Department payroll less any other benefit payments received pursuant to this
chapter.
A Public Safety Officer who enters the service after November 1, 1986 shall be
examined by one or more practicing physicians appointed by the Board. If the
examination discloses impairment of the heart, lungs or respiratory tract, or
the existence of any cancer, the Public Safety Officer shall not be entitled to
the occupational disease disability pension unless and until a subsequent
examination reveals no such impairment or cancer.
The occupational disease disability pension shall be equal to the greater of
sixty five percent (65%) of the salary attached to the rank held by the Public
Safety Officer in the Public Safety Department at the time of his or her
removal from the Village's Public Safety Department payroll, or (ii) the
retirement pension that the Public Safety Officer would be eligible to receive
if he or she retired, but not including any automatic annual increase in that
retirement pension. If a Public Safety Officer on an occupational disease
disability pension dies while still disabled, the disability pension shall
continue to be paid to the Officer's survivors in the sequence provided in
subsection
6-12-15A.
As of January 1, 1999, the minimum occupational disease disability pension for
a Public Safety Officer shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) per month,
without regard to whether he or she was in service on or after October 1, 2000.
A Public Safety Officer whose pension began prior to October 1, 2000 and is
subject to this increase, shall be entitled to a lump sum payment of the amount
of that increase accruing from January 1, 1999, or the date the pension began,
if later, to October 1, 2000. As of October 1, 2000, the minimum occupational
disease disability pension for a Public Safety Officer shall be eight hundred
dollars ($800.00) per month, without regard to whether he or she was in service
on or after October 1, 2000. As of January 1, 2001, the minimum occupational
disease disability pension for a Public Safety Officer shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per month, without regard to whether he or she was in
service on or after October 1, 2000.
The Public Safety Officer is also entitled to a child's disability benefit of
twenty dollars ($20.00) a month for each natural or legally adopted unmarried
child less than age eighteen (18) dependent upon the Public Safety Officer for
support. The total child's disability benefit when added to the occupational
disease disability pension shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the
Public Safety Officer's salary at the time of the grant of occupational disease
disability pension. The occupational disease disability pension is payable
during the period of the disability. The Public Safety Officer thereafter shall
receive such pension benefits as are provided in accordance with other
provisions of this chapter.
The child's disability benefit shall be paid during the period of disability
until the child or children attain age eighteen (18) or marry, whichever event
occurs first.
Benefits payable on account of a child under this section shall not be reduced
or terminated by reason of the child's attainment of age eighteen (18) if he or
she is then dependent by reason of a physical or mental disability but shall
continue to be paid as long as such dependency continues. Individuals over the
age of eighteen (18) and adjudged as a disabled person pursuant to Article Xla
of the Probate Act of 1975, except persons receiving benefits under Article III
of the Illinois Public Aid Code, shall be eligible to receive benefits under
this Act.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-19:   DETERMINATION OF DISABILITY:
A disability pension shall not be paid until disability has been established by
the board by examinations of the Public Safety Officer at Fund expense by three
(3) physicians selected by the board and such other evidence as the board deems
necessary. Medical examination of a Public Safety Officer receiving a
disability pension shall be made at least once each year prior to attainment of
age fifty (50) in order to verify continuance of disability. No examination
shall be required after age fifty (50).
Upon satisfactory proof to the board that a Public Safety Officer receiving a
disability pension has recovered from disability, the Board shall terminate the
disability pension. The Public Safety Officer shall report to the
Superintendent of the Public Safety Department, who shall thereupon order
reinstatement into active service, in the same rank or grade held at the date
he or she was placed on disability pension.
The Public Safety Officer shall be entitled to ten (10) days notice before any
hearing or meeting of the Board at which the question of his or her disability
is to be considered, and shall have the right to be present at any such hearing
or meeting, and to be represented by counsel; however, the Board shall not have
any obligation to provide such Public Safety Officer with counsel.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-20:   RETURN TO ACTIVE DUTY AFTER DISABILITY:
A Public Safety Officer who receives a disability pension for more than two (2)
years and who returns to active duty must remain in active service for at least
five (5) years before becoming eligible for a disability pension greater than
the pension paid for the prior disability.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-21:   REDUCTION OF DISABILITY AND SURVIVOR'S BENEFITS FOR CORRESPONDING
BENEFITS PAYABLE UNDER WORKERS' COMPENSATION AND WORKERS' OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE
ACTS AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE:
   A.   Whenever a person is entitled to a disability or survivor's benefit
under this chapter and to benefits under the Workers' Compensation Act or the
Workers' Occupational Diseases Act for the same injury or disease, the benefits
payable under this chapter shall be reduced by an amount computed in accordance
with subsection B of this section. There shall be no reduction, however, for
any of the following: payments for medical, surgical and hospital services,
non-medical remedial care and treatment rendered in accordance with a religious
method of healing recognized by the laws of Illinois and for artificial
appliances; payments made for scheduled losses for the loss of or permanent and
complete or permanent and partial loss of the use of any bodily member or the
body taken as a whole under subdivision (d)2 or subsection (e) of Section 8 of
the Workers' Compensation Act or Section 7 of the Workers' Occupational
Diseases Act; payments made for statutorily prescribed losses under subdivision
(d)2 of Section 8 of the Workers' Compensation Act or Section 7 of the Workers'
Occupational Diseases Act; and that portion of the payments which is utilized
to pay attorneys' fees and the costs of securing the workers' compensation
benefits under either the Workers' Compensation Act or Workers' Occupational
Diseases Act.
   B.   The reduction prescribed by this section shall be computed as follows:
      1.   In the event that a person entitled to benefits under this chapter
incurs costs or attorneys' fees in order to establish his entitlement, the
reduction prescribed by this section shall itself be reduced by the amount of
such costs and attorneys' fees.
      2.   If the benefits deductible under this section are stated in a weekly
amount, the monthly amount for the purpose of this section shall be fifty two
(52) times the weekly amount, divided by twelve (12).
      3.   The death and disability benefits provided by the Fund are limited
by the incidental benefit rule set forth in Section 401(a)(9)(G) of the
Internal Revenue Code and Treasury Regulation Section 1.401-1(b)(1)(i) or any
successor regulation thereto. As a result, the total death or disability
benefits payable may not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the cost for all
the Public Safety Officer's benefits received from the Fund.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-22:   DISABILITY PENSION OPTION:
A Public Safety Officer age fifty (50) or older who is receiving a disability
pension may by written application to the Board, elect the disability pension
option if the period during which a disability pension was paid when added to
the period of active service equals at least twenty (20) years. The election
shall permit the Officer to continue to receive a retirement pension for the
remainder of his or her life of one-half of the salary at the date of the
retirement on disability in lieu of any amounts which would have been payable
to the officer under section
6-12-16,
6-12-17 or
6-12-18.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-23:   EMERGENCY SERVICE:
In case of emergency, a disabled Public Safety Officer may be assigned to and
shall perform such duty without right to compensation as the Director of the
Department of Public Safety or the Mayor of the Village may direct.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-24:   PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS OVER AGE 50:
This chapter shall not be construed to require the retirement at age fifty (50)
of any police officer capable of performing his or her duties.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-25:   WAIVER:
A retired Public Safety Officer or surviving spouse may execute a written
waiver of the right to receive all or part of his or her pension. A waiver
shall take effect upon its being filed with the Board and may be revoked only
within the first thirty (30) days after it is filed with the Board.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-26:   MARRIAGE AFTER RETIREMENT:
If a Public Safety Officer marries subsequent to retirement on any pension
under this chapter, the surviving spouse and the children of such surviving
spouse shall receive no pension on the death of the Officer.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-27:   PENSIONS CEASE ON MARRIAGE:
Except as otherwise provided in subsection
6-12-15, the pensions provided in sections
6-12-15,
6-12-16,
6-12-17 and
6-12-18 shall not be paid to a surviving spouse, child or dependent parent
after marriage or remarriage of the surviving spouse, child or dependent parent
following the death of the Public Safety Officer.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-28:   PENSION TO SURVIVORS OF MALE AND FEMALE PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS:
All provisions of this chapter relating to pensions to a surviving spouse,
children or dependent parents of a Public Safety Officer shall apply with equal
force to the surviving spouse, minor children and dependent parents of male and
female officers without any modification whatsoever.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-29:   NON-RESIDENT PENSIONER:
A pensioner under this chapter who resides outside of the Village shall from
time to time furnish the Board such proof or affidavits as the Board may
require concerning compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-30:   ELIGIBILITY OF CHILDREN:
Dependent benefits shall be paid to each natural child of a deceased Public
Safety Officer, and to each child legally adopted before the Public Safety
Officer attains age fifty (50), until the child's attainment of age eighteen
(18), or marriage, whichever occurs first. Benefits payable on account of a
child under this chapter to children shall not be reduced or terminated by
reason of the child's attainment of age eighteen (18) if he or she is then
dependent by reason of a physical or mental disability but shall continue to be
paid as long as such dependency continues. Individuals over the age of eighteen
(18) and adjudged as a disabled person pursuant to Article Xla of the Probate
Act of 1975, except for persons receiving benefits under Article III of the
Illinois Public Aid Code, shall be eligible to receive benefits under this
chapter.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-31:   REFUND:
A Public Safety Officer separated from public safety service on or after June
1, 1998 with less than twenty (20) years of service is entitled to a refund
upon request of all contributions made by the Officer to the Fund. A Public
Safety Officer shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested in his or her
accumulated contributions at all times.
Acceptance of a refund shall bar the Public Safety Officer and his or her
dependents from any further participation in the benefits of this chapter
subject to restoration upon re-entry into service and repayment to the Fund
within two hundred seventy (270) days after the date of reentry into service of
the amount of the refund together with interest on such amount calculated at a
rate of six percent (6%) per annum or the prime commercial interest rate as
publicly announced by the largest commercial banking institution in Cook
County, Illinois, that was in effect on the date of reentry into service,
whichever is greater.
If a Public Safety Officer dies with less than ten (10) years of public safety
service, the Officer's contributions to the Fund shall, upon the written
request of his or her surviving spouse, be refunded to the spouse without
interest. lf, upon the death of a Public Safety Officer, there is no surviving
spouse, the excess of the Officer's contributions to the fund over any pension
payment shall be refunded to his or her heir’s estate. Acceptance of this
refund shall bar the Public Safety Officer's dependents or estate from any
further participation in the benefits provided under this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-32:   RE-ENTRY INTO ACTIVE SERVICE:
   A.   If a Public Safety Officer receiving pension payments re-enters active
service, pension payments shall be suspended while he or she is in service. If
the Public Safety Officer again retires or is discharged, his or her monthly
pension shall be resumed in the same amount as was paid upon first retirement
or discharge unless he or she remained in active service three (3) or more
years after re-entry in which case the monthly pension shall be based on the
salary attached to the Public Safety Officer's rank at the date of last
retirement.
   B.   If a deferred pensioner re-enters active service, and again retires or
is discharged from the Public Safety Department, his or her pension shall be
based on the salary attached to the rank held in the Public Safety Department
at the date of earlier retirement, unless the Public Safety Officer remains in
active service for three (3) or more years after re-entry, in which case the
monthly pension shall be based on the salary attached to the Public Safety
Officer's rank at the date of last retirement.
   C.   If a pensioner or deferred pensioner re-enters or is recalled to active
service and is thereafter injured, and the injury is not related to an injury
for which he or she was previously receiving a disability pension, the three
(3) year service requirement shall not apply in order for the Public Safety
Officer to qualify for the increased pension based on the rate of pay at the
time of the new injury.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-33:   MEDICAL INSURANCE BENEFITS:
   A.   Every pensioner, surviving spouse and dependent child or parent
receiving pension benefits under the provisions of this chapter shall be
entitled to receive from the Village the same hospitalization and medical
insurance coverage as the Village provides to active Public Safety Officers
until such time as the pensioner, surviving spouse or parent reaches age sixty
five (65). After a pensioner, surviving spouse or parent receiving pension
benefits under the provisions of this chapter reaches age sixty five (65), then
the pensioner, surviving spouse or parent shall become eligible to receive the
same benefits supplemental to benefits provided under the federal Medicare
Program as are provided to retired Village employees so that such pensioners,
surviving spouses and parents will receive hospitalization and medical
insurance coverage similar to that provided to active public safety officers
and their dependents, when the supplemental benefits are combined with benefits
available under the Medicare Program. The supplemental benefits to be provided
to pensioners, surviving spouses and parents, after their sixty fifth birthday,
will be the same as the benefits provided to retired Village employees pursuant
to Village of Rosemont Ordinance No. 92-2-5M "An Ordinance Establishing a
Hospitalization and Medical Insurance Benefits Program for Retired Village
Employees" as now or hereafter amended.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section
6-12-33 or any other provision of this chapter creating the Public Safety
Officers Pension Fund of the Village of Rosemont, the provisions of this
subsection B only apply to a person who first becomes a Public Safety Officer
for the Village of Rosemont on or after October 11, 2021. A surviving spouse of
a person who first becomes a Public Safety Officer for the Village of Rosemont
on or after October 11, 2021 shall not receive any benefits under subsection A
if they were not residing within the same primary place of residence with the
deceased Public Safety Officer, deceased Pensioner or deceased Deferred
Pensioner on and/or before the date of the death. Under this subsection B, a
surviving spouse shall be considered as residing within the same primary place
of residence as the deceased Public Safety Officer, deceased Pensioner or
deceased Deferred Pensioner as of and/or prior to the date of death if the
surviving spouse was residing within the same primary place of residence with
the deceased Public Safety Officer, deceased Pensioner or deceased Deferred
Pensioner prior to the date of the death until either the Surviving Spouse,
Public Safety Officer, Pensioner or Deferred Pensioner moved to and resided at
a nursing home, hospice center, assisted living facility or home for the aged
on the date of death for the purpose of receiving care and treatment related to
a medical, mental or physical condition.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2021-10-11A, 10-11-2021)
6-12-34:   FINANCING:
   A.   The Corporate Authorities of the Village may annually levy a tax upon
all taxable property within the Village to meet the expenses, including pension
payments, of the Fund. If such a tax is levied it shall be in addition to any
other taxes that may be levied by the Village. The Corporate Authorities of the
Village may also contribute or transfer monies to the Fund derived from any
other available source.
   B.   The Fund shall consist of the following moneys which shall be set apart
by the treasurer or finance director of the Village:
      1.   All moneys derived from the taxes levied under subsection A of this
section;
      2.   Contributions by Public Safety Officers under subsection
6-12-35.
      3.   All moneys accumulated by the Village in the "Police Pension Fund"
established pursuant to Village of Rosemont Ordinance No. 75-10-15A;
      4.   Donations, gifts or other transfers authorized by this chapter;
      5.   All moneys contributed or transferred by the Village to the Fund.
      6.   In conformity with Section 401(a)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code,
any forfeitures of benefits by Public Safety Officers or former Public Safety
Officers who do not qualify for a pension benefit shall not be applied to
increase the benefits any Public Safety Officer would otherwise receive under
the Fund. Instead, such forfeitures shall be used to reduce Village
contributions to the Fund.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-35:   CONTRIBUTIONS BY PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS:
Each Public Safety Officer shall contribute to the Fund the following
percentages of salary for the periods stated: Beginning April 15, 1975 and
prior to July 1, 1975, 7½%, beginning on July 1, 1975 and prior to January 1,
1988, 8½%, beginning January 1, 1988 and prior to September 24, 2000, 9%,
beginning on September 24, 2000, 9.20%. Such sums shall be paid or deducted
monthly.
"Salary" means annual salary, including longevity attached to the Public Safety
Officer's rank, as established by the Village's appropriation ordinance and/or
salary schedule, including any compensation for over-time which is included in
the salary so established, but excluding any "over-time pay," "holiday pay,"
"bonus pay," "merit pay," or any other cash benefit not included in the salary
so established.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-36:   PICK UP OF CONTRIBUTIONS:
The Village may pick up the Public Safety Officers' contributions required by
section
6-12-35 for all salary earned by a Public Safety Officer. If contributions are
picked up, they shall be treated as employer contributions in determining tax
treatment under the United States Internal Revenue Code. The Village shall pay
these contributions from the same source of funds which is used to pay the
salaries of Public Safety Officers. The Village may pick up these contributions
by a reduction in the cash salary of the Public Safety Officer or by an offset
against a future salary increase or by a combination of a reduction in salary
and offset against a future salary increase. If contributions are picked up
they shall be considered for all purposes of this chapter as Public Safety
Officers' contributions made prior to the time that contributions were picked
up. The Public Safety Officer shall not be permitted to opt-out of the pick-up
under this section or receive the contribution amounts directly instead of
having them paid by the Village to the Fund.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-37:   RESERVES:
The Board may establish and maintain a reserve to insure the payment of all
obligations incurred under this chapter. Moneys may be accumulated in the
reserve equal to the estimated total actuarial requirements of the Fund.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-38:   BOARD CREATED:
   A.   A Board of five (5) members shall constitute a Board of Trustees to
administer the Fund to designate the beneficiaries thereof. The Board shall be
known as the "Board of Trustees of the Public Safety Officers Pension Fund of
the Village of Rosemont."
   B.   Two (2) members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor of the
Village. The third and fourth members of the Board shall be elected from the
active participants. The fifth member shall be elected by and from the Fund
beneficiaries.
   C.   The members of the Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund
established pursuant to Village of Rosemont Ordinance No. 75-10-14A shall serve
as members of the Board created by this section until the term for which they
were appointed or elected expires or until their successors are appointed and
qualified. Thereafter their successors shall serve for two (2) years each or
until their successors are elected or appointed and qualified except as
provided in subsection D of this chapter for the members of the Board of
Trustees to be elected from the active participants of the Fund at the election
to be held on the third Monday in April, 1987.
   D.   The election for the members of the Board to be elected from the active
participants of the Fund shall be held annually on the third Monday in April,
at such place, or places, in the Village and under the Australian ballot system
and such other regulations as shall be prescribed by the appointed members of
the Board provided however that at the election to be held in April, 1987 one
member of the Board shall be elected from the active participants of the Fund
for a one year term and a second member of the Board shall be elected from the
active participants of the Fund for a two (2) year term.
   E.   The election for the member of the Board to be elected by and from the
Fund beneficiaries shall be held bi-annually on the third Monday in April, at
such place or places in the Village under the Australian ballot system and such
other regulations as shall be prescribed by the appointed members of the Board.
   F.   The active Fund participants shall be entitled to vote only for the
active participant members of the Board. All beneficiaries of legal age may
vote only for the member chosen from among the beneficiaries. No person shall
be entitled to cast more than one ballot at such election. Except as provided
in subsection D with respect to one of the members of the Board elected from
active Fund participants at the election to be held in April, 1987, the term of
elected members shall be two (2) years, beginning on the second Tuesday of the
first May after the election.
   G.   Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any elected Board
member, his or her successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a
special election, to be called by the Board and conducted in the same manner as
the regular election.
   H.   Members of the Board shall neither receive nor have any right to
receive any salary from the Fund for services performed as Trustees in that
office. The method of selection of the members of the Board shall not be
modified unless such modification is approved by a majority of active Fund
participants and a majority of Fund beneficiaries of legal age.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-39:   BOARD MEETINGS:
The Board shall hold annually regular quarterly meetings in July, October,
January and April, and special meetings as called by the president.
At the regular July meeting, the Board shall select from its members a
president, vice-president, secretary, and assistant secretary to serve for one
year and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
The vice-president shall perform the duties of president during any vacancy in
that office, or during the president's absence from the Village, or if he or
she is by reason of illness or other causes unable to perform the duties of the
office.
The assistant secretary shall act for the secretary whenever necessary to
discharge the functions of such office.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-40:   POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD:
The Board shall have the powers and duties stated in sections
6-12-41 through
6-12-52 in addition to the other powers and duties provided under this
ordinance.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-41:   TO CONTROL AND MANAGE THE FUND:
To control and manage, exclusively, the Fund and all money donated, paid or
assessed for the pensioning of disabled and retired Public Safety Officers,
their surviving spouses, minor children and dependent parents. All such moneys
shall be placed by the finance director of the Village to the credit of the
Fund, subject to the order of the Board.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-42:   TO ORDER PAYMENTS AND ISSUE CERTIFICATES:
To order the payment of pensions and other benefits and to issue certificates
signed by its president and secretary to the beneficiaries stating the amount
and purpose of the payment.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-43:   TO SUBMIT ANNUAL LIST OF FUND PAYMENTS:
To submit annually to the Village's Board of Trustees at the close of the
Village's fiscal year, a list of persons entitled to payments from the Fund,
stating the amount of payments, and their purpose, as ordered by the Board. It
shall also include items of income accrued to the fund during the fiscal year.
The list shall be signed by the secretary and president of the Board, and
attested under oath. A resolution or order for the payment of money shall not
be valid unless approved by a majority of the Board members, and signed by the
president and secretary of the Board.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-44:   TO DRAW AND INVEST FUNDS AND APPOINT INVESTMENT ADVISORS:
To draw pension funds from the Village and to invest the funds as set forth in
this section and to appoint investment advisors as provided in subsection D.
All investments made by the Board shall be made with the care, skill, prudence,
and diligence that a prudent person acting in like capacity and familiar with
such matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of like character with
like aims. Interest and any other income from the investments shall be credited
to the Fund. For the purposes of subsections
6-12-40A through
6-12-40C, the "net assets" of the fund include both the cash and invested
assets of the Fund. To the extent there is any conflict between this section
6-12-44 and any investment policy adopted by the Board of Trustees of the
Public Safety Officers Pension Fund of the Village of Rosemont, the provisions
of this section
6-12-44 shall control.
   A.   Assets of the Fund may be invested in the following:
      1.   Interest bearing direct obligations of the United States of America.
      2.   Interest bearing obligations to the extent that they are fully
guaranteed or insured as to payment of principal and interest by the United
States of America.
      3.   Interest bearing bonds, notes, debentures, or other similar
obligations of agencies of the United States of America. For the purposes of
this section, "agencies of the United States of America" include: (i) the
Federal National Mortgage Association and the Student Loan Marketing
Association; (ii) federal land banks, federal intermediate credit banks,
federal farm credit banks, and any other entity authorized to issue direct debt
obligations of the United States of America under the Farm Credit Act of 1971
or amendments to that Act; (iii) federal home loan banks and the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation; and (iv) any agency created by Act of Congress that
is authorized to issue direct debt obligations of the United States of America.
      4.   Interest bearing savings accounts or certificates of deposit, issued
by federally chartered banks or savings and loan associations, to the extent
that the deposits are insured by agencies or instrumentalities of the federal
government.
      5.   Interest bearing savings accounts or certificates of deposit, issued
by State of Illinois chartered banks or savings and loan associations, to the
extent that the deposits are insured by agencies or instrumentalities of the
federal government.
      6.   Investments in credit unions, to the extent that the investments are
insured by agencies or instrumentalities of the federal government.
      7.   Interest bearing bonds of the State of Illinois.
      8.   Pooled interest bearing accounts managed by the Illinois Public
Treasurer's Investment Pool in accordance with the Deposit of State Moneys Act
(15 ILCS 520/0.01 et seq.), interest bearing funds or pooled accounts of the
Illinois Metropolitan Investment Funds, and interest bearing funds or pooled
accounts managed, operated, and administered by banks, subsidiaries of banks,
or subsidiaries of bank holding companies in accordance with the laws of the
State of Illinois.
      9.   Interest bearing bonds or tax anticipation warrants of any county,
township, or municipal corporation of the State of Illinois.
      10.   Money market mutual funds managed by investment companies that are
registered under the federal Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. §§ 80a-
1 et seq.) and the Illinois Securities Law of 1953 (815 ILCS 5/1 et seq.) and
are diversified, open-ended management investment companies; provided that the
portfolio of the money market mutual fund is limited to the following:
         a.   Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, treasury bills, or
other securities that are guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United
States of America as to principal and interest;
         b.   Bonds, notes, debentures, or other similar obligations of the
United States of America or its agencies; and
         c.   Short term obligations of corporations organized in the United
States with assets exceeding $400,000,000, provided that (A) the obligations
mature no later than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of purchase,
(B) at the time of purchase, the obligations are rated by at least two (2)
standard national rating services at one of their three (3) highest
classifications, and (C) the obligations held by the mutual fund do not exceed
ten percent (10%) of the corporation's outstanding obligations.
      11.   General accounts of life insurance companies authorized to transact
business in Illinois.
      12.   Any combination of the following, not to exceed ten percent (10%)
of the Fund's net assets:
         a.   Separate accounts that are managed by life insurance companies
authorized to transact business in Illinois and are comprised of diversified
portfolios consisting of common or preferred stocks, bonds, or money market
instruments; and
         b.   Separate accounts that are managed by insurance companies
authorized to transact business in Illinois, and are comprised of real estate
or loans upon real estate secured by first or second mortgages.
         c.   Mutual funds that meet the following requirements:
            (1)   The mutual fund is managed by an investment company as
defined and registered under the federal Investment Company Act of 1940 and
registered under the Illinois Securities Law of 1953;
            (2)   The mutual fund has been in operation for at least five (5)
years;
            (3)   The mutual fund has total net assets of $250 million or more;
and
            (4)   The mutual fund is comprised of diversified portfolios of
common or preferred stocks, bonds, or money market instruments.
      13.   Corporate bonds managed through an investment advisor must meet all
of the following requirements:
         a.   The bonds must be rated as investment grade by one of the two (2)
largest rating services at the time of purchase.
         b.   If subsequently downgraded below investment grade, the bonds must
be liquidated from the portfolio within ninety (90) days after being downgraded
by the manager.
   B.   In addition to the items in subsection A, the Fund may invest a portion
of its net assets in the following items if the Fund has net assets of at least
$2,500,000:
      1.   Separate accounts that are managed by life insurance companies
authorized to transact business in Illinois and are comprised of diversified
portfolios consisting of common or preferred stocks, bonds, or money market
instruments.
      2.   Mutual funds that meet the following requirements:
         a.   The mutual fund is managed by an investment company as defined
and registered under the federal Investment Company Act of 1940 and registered
under the Illinois Securities Law of 1953;
         b.   The mutual fund has been in operation for at least five (5)
years;
         c.   The mutual fund has total net assets of $250 million or more; and
         d.   The mutual fund is comprised of diversified portfolios of common
or preferred stocks, bonds, or money market instruments.
   The Fund's total investment in the items authorized under subsection B shall
not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the market value of the Fund's net
present assets.
   C.   In addition to the items in subsection A and B, if the Fund has net
assets of at least five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) and has appointed an
investment adviser under D, it may, through that investment adviser invest a
portion of its net assets in common and preferred stocks authorized for
investments of trust funds under the laws of the State of Illinois. The stocks
must meet all of the following requirements:
      1.   The common stocks are listed on a national securities exchange or
board of trade (as defined in the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
set forth in Section 3.G of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953) (15 U.S.C. §§
78a et seq. and 815 ILCS 5/3(G.) or quoted in the National Association of
Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System National Market System
(NASDAQNMS).
      2.   The securities are of a corporation created or existing under the
laws of the United States or any state, district, or territory thereof and the
corporation has been in existence for at least five (5) years.
      3.   The corporation has not been in arrears on payment of dividends on
its preferred stock during the preceding five (5) years.
      4.   The market value of stock in any one corporation does not exceed
five percent (5%) of the cash and invested assets of the Fund, and the
investments in the stock of any one corporation do not exceed five percent (5%)
of the total outstanding stock of that corporation.
      5.   The straight preferred stocks or convertible preferred stocks are
issued or guaranteed by a corporation whose common stock qualifies for
investment by the Board.
      6.   The issuer of the stocks has been subject to the requirements of
Section 12 of the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. § 781) and
has been current with the filing requirements of Sections 13 and 14 of that Act
(15 U.S.C. §§ 78m and 78n) during the preceding three (3) years.
   The Fund's total investment in the items authorized under subsections B and
C shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the market value of the Fund's
net present assets.
   D.   In addition to the items in subsections A and B, if the Fund has net
assets of at least ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00) and has appointed an
investment adviser under subsection D, it may, through that investment adviser,
invest a portion of its net assets in common and preferred stocks and mutual
funds.
      1.   The stocks must meet all of the following requirements:
         a.   The common stocks must be listed on a national securities
exchange or board of trade (as defined in the Federal Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 and set forth in paragraph G of Section 3 of the Illinois Securities
Law of 1953) or quoted in the National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotation System National Market System.
         b.   The securities must be of a corporation in existence for at least
five (5) years.
         c.   The market value of stock in any one corporation may not exceed
five percent (5%) of the cash and invested assets of the pension fund, and the
investments in the stock of any one corporation may not exceed five percent
(5%) of the total outstanding stock of that corporation.
         d.   The straight preferred stocks or convertible preferred stocks
must be issued or guaranteed by a corporation whose common stock qualifies for
investment by the Board.
      2.   The mutual funds must meet the following requirements:
         a.   The mutual fund must be managed by an investment company
registered under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940 and registered
under the Illinois Securities Law of 1953.
         b.   The mutual fund must have been in operation for at least five (5)
years.
         c.   The mutual fund must have total net assets of two hundred fifty
million dollars (($250,000,000.00) or more.
         d.   The mutual fund must be comprised of a diversified portfolio of
common or preferred stocks, bonds, or money market instruments.
      3.   A pension fund's total investment in the items authorized under this
subsections B and D shall not exceed fifty five percent (55%) of the market
value of the pension fund's net present assets.
   E.   The Board may appoint investment advisers. The Board shall appoint an
investment adviser before making such investments if it invests in common or
preferred stock under subsections C or D. The investment adviser shall be a
fiduciary with respect to the Fund and shall be one of the following:
      1.   An investment adviser registered under the federal Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. §§ 80b-1 et seq.) and the Illinois Securities
Law of 1953;
      2.   A bank or trust company authorized to conduct a trust business in
Illinois;
      3.   A life insurance company authorized to transact business in
Illinois; or
      4.   An investment company as defined and registered under the federal
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. §§ 80A-1 et seq.) and registered
under the Illinois Securities Law of 1953.
   F.   For purposes of this Section 44 an investment adviser shall be a person
who:
      1.   Has the power to manage, acquire, or dispose of any asset of the
retirement system or pension fund;
      2.   Has acknowledged in writing that he or she is a fiduciary with
respect to the pension fund or retirement system; and
      3.   Is at least one of the following: (i) registered as an investment
adviser under the federal Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. §§ 80b-1,
et seq.); (ii) registered as an investment adviser under the Illinois
Securities Law of 1953; (iii) a bank, as defined in the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940; or (iv) an insurance company authorized to transact business in this
State.
   G.   All investment advice and services provided by an investment adviser
appointed under this section shall be rendered pursuant to a written contract
between the investment adviser and the Board, and in accordance with the
Board's investment policy. The contract shall include all of the following:
      1.   Acknowledgment in writing by the investment adviser that he or she
is a fiduciary with respect to the Fund;
      2.   The Board's investment policy;
      3.   Full disclosure of direct and indirect fees, commissions, penalties,
and any other compensation that may be received by the investment adviser,
including reimbursement for expenses; and
      4.   A requirement that the investment adviser submit periodic written
reports, on at least a quarterly basis, for the Board's review at its regularly
scheduled meetings. All returns on investment shall be reported as net returns
after payment of all fees, commissions, and any other compensation.
   The Board shall file copies of all contracts which it enters into with
investment advisors with the Village Clerk and with the Village Finance
Director.
   H.   Investment services provided by a person other than an investment
adviser appointed under this Section, including, but not limited to, services
provided by the kinds of persons listed in subsections E1 through E4, shall be
rendered only after full written disclosure of direct and indirect fees,
commissions, penalties, and any other compensation that shall or may be
received by the person rendering those services.
   I.   The Board shall retain records of investment transactions and shall
make them available for inspection upon request by the Village Finance Director
and any auditor retained by the Village.
   J.   The Board shall adopt a written investment policy and file copies of
that policy with the Village Clerk and the Village's Finance Director within
thirty (30) days after its adoption. Whenever the Board changes its investment
policy, it shall file a copy of the new policy with the Village Clerk and the
Village's Finance Director within thirty (30) days.
   K.   The following shall apply to the holding and custody of investments
made with assets of the Fund:
      1.   The Board may register the investments of the Fund in the name of
the Fund, in the nominee name of a bank or trust company authorized to conduct
a trust business in Illinois, or in the nominee name of the Illinois Public
Treasurer's Investment Pool. The assets of the Fund and ownership of its
investments shall be protected through third-party custodial safekeeping.
      2.   The Board may appoint as custodian of the investments of the Fund
the Village's Director of Finance, a bank or trust company authorized to
conduct a trust business in Illinois, or the Illinois Public Treasurer's
Investment Pool.
      3.   A dealer may not maintain possession of or control over securities
of the Fund subject to the provisions of this section unless it is registered
as a broker-dealer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is a
member in good standing of the National Association of Securities Dealers, and
(i) with respect to securities that are not issued only in book-entry form, (A)
all such securities of the Fund are either held in safekeeping in a place
reasonably free from risk of destruction or held in custody by a securities
depository that is a "clearing agency" registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, (B) the dealer is a member of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation, (C) the dealer sends to the Fund, no less frequently
than each calendar quarter, an itemized statement showing the moneys and
securities in the custody or possession of the dealer at the end of such
period, and (D) an independent certified public account conducts an audit, no
less frequently than each calendar year, that reviews the dealer's internal
accounting controls and procedures for safeguarding securities; and (ii) with
respect to securities that are issued only in book-entry form, (A) all such
securities of the Fund are held either in a securities depository that is a
"clearing agency" registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
or in a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, (B) the dealer
records the ownership interest of the Fund in such securities on the dealer's
books and records, (C) the dealer is a member of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation, (D) the dealer sends to the Fund, no less frequently
than each calendar quarter, an itemized statement showing the moneys and
securities in the custody or possession of the dealer at the end of such
period, and (E) the dealer's financial statement (which shall contain among
other things a statement of the dealer's net capital and its required net
capital computed in accordance with Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934) (15 U.S.C. §§ 78a et seq.) is audited annually by an independent
certified public accountant, and the dealer's most recent audited financial
statement is furnished to the Board.
      4.   No broker-dealer serving as a custodian for the Fund as provided in
this section shall be authorized to serve as an investment advisor for the Fund
to the extent that the investment advisor acquires or disposes of any asset of
the Fund. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may a broker or dealer
that is a natural person maintain possession of or control over securities or
other assets of the Fund subject to the provisions of this Section. In
maintaining securities of the Fund subject to the provisions of this Section,
each dealer must maintain those securities in conformity with the provisions of
Rule 15c3-3(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Physical Possession or
Control of Securities).
      5.   A bank or trust company authorized to conduct a trust business in
Illinois shall register, deposit, or hold investments of the Fund for
safekeeping, all in accordance with the obligations and subject to the
limitations of the Securities in Fiduciary Accounts Act (760 ILCS 75/0.01 et
seq.).
      6.   A bank or savings and loan association shall not receive investment
funds from the Fund unless it has complied with the requirements established
under section 6 of the Public Funds Investment. Act (30 ILCS 235/6). The
limitations set forth in that section 6 are applicable only at the time of
investment and do not require the liquidation of any investment at any time.
   L.   The investment limitations set forth in this section are applicable
only at the time of investment and do not require the liquidation of any
investment at any time. However, no additional funds may be invested in any
investment item while the market value of the Fund's investments in that item
meets or exceeds the applicable limitation.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2013-4-10E, - -2013)
6-12-45:   TO SUBPOENA WITNESSES:
To compel witnesses to attend and testify before it upon all matters connected
with the administration of this chapter, in the manner provided by law for the
taking of testimony in the circuit courts of this State. The president, or any
board member, may administer oaths to witnesses.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-46:   TO MAKE RULES:
To make necessary rules and regulations in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, and to publish and transmit copies from time to time to all
pensioners and contributors.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-47:   TO ACCEPT DONATIONS:
To accept by gift, grant, transfer, or bequest, any money, real estate, or
personal property. Such money and the proceeds from the sale of or the income
from such real estate or personal property shall be paid into the Fund.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-48:   TO APPOINT CLERK:
To appoint a clerk and define his duties. No persons drawing a pension under
this chapter shall be employed by the board.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-49:   TO PAY EXPENSES:
To provide for the payment from the Fund of all necessary expenses, including
clerk hire, printing, witness and attorneys' fees.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-50:   TO KEEP RECORDS:
To keep a record of all its meetings and proceedings.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-51:   TO ENFORCE CONTRIBUTIONS:
To assess each Public Safety Officer the contributions required under section
6-12-35. The contributions deducted from salaries, together with all interest
accruing thereon, shall be placed by the finance director of the Village as ex
officio treasurer of the Board, to the credit of the pension fund, subject to
the order of the board.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-52:   ADDITIONAL POWERS:
To do any and all other acts required to implement or comply with the
provisions of this chapter or which are necessary for the prudent
administration of the Fund.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-53:   AUDIT:
An audit by a certified public accountant shall be made annually of all moneys
received by and paid out on behalf of the Fund during each Village fiscal year
and of the amount of funds on hand and owing to the Fund at the end of each
fiscal year.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-54:   PAYMENT OF BENEFITS - FUNDS INSUFFICIENT:
Any Public Safety Officer and any eligible surviving spouse, child or children,
or dependent parent of the officer to whom the board has ordered benefits to be
paid, shall receive a yearly benefit payable in twelve (12) equal monthly
installments, which shall be the aggregate amount to which they are entitled.
If at any time there is not sufficient money in the Fund to pay the benefits
under this chapter, the Village's Board of Trustees shall make every legal
effort to replenish the Fund so that all beneficiaries may receive the amounts
to which they are entitled. If, thereafter, there still remain insufficient
funds, the Village shall be obligated to make any required benefit payments. In
the event of a full or partial termination of, or a complete discontinuance of
Village contributions to the Fund, the accrued benefits of the affected Public
Safety Officers under the Fund shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested and
nonforfeitable to the extent funded and to the extent required by the Internal
Revenue Code.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-55:   REPORT BY BOARD:
The Board shall report annually on or before July 1 of each year to the Board
of Trustees of the Village on the condition of the Fund. The plan year shall be
the twelve month period beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30.
The Board shall certify:
   A.   The assets in its custody at such time;
   B.   The estimated receipts during the next succeeding calendar year from
deductions from the salaries of the public safety officers, and from all other
sources; and
   C.   The estimated amount required during said calendar year to pay all
pensions and other obligations provided in this ordinance.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-56:   OVERPAYMENT - DEDUCTION:
The amount of any overpayment due to fraud, misrepresentation or error, of any
pension or benefit granted under this Article may be deducted from future
payments to the recipient of such pension or benefit.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-57:   FELONY CONVICTION:
None of the benefits provided in this chapter shall be paid to any person who
is convicted of any felony relating to or arising out of or in connection with
his or her service as a Public Safety Officer.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-58:   CONTRACTUAL RIGHT:
The right of participants in the Fund to receive the benefits as provided in
this chapter and to have the Fund administered as provided in sections
6-12-6,
6-12-11 and
6-12-38 of this chapter, shall be a contractual right which shall become vested
upon a participant making the contributions provided for in section
6-12-35 of this chapter provided that the provisions of sections
6-12-6,
6-12-11 and
6-12-38 may be modified if the modification is approved by a majority of the
active Fund participants and a majority of Fund beneficiaries of legal age.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-59:   REPEAL OF PRIOR PROVISIONS:
Any chapter which is inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this chapter
shall be and hereby is repealed to the extent of such inconsistency.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-60:   SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is, for any reason, held
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter
or the application of such portion to other persons or circumstances.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-61:   EXERCISE OF HOME RULE POWERS:
This ordinance and each of its terms shall be the effective legislative act of
a home rule municipality without regard to whether such ordinance should (a)
contain terms contrary to the provisions of current or subsequent non-
preemptive state law, or (b) legislate in a manner or regarding a matter not
delegated to municipalities by state law. It is the intent of the corporate
authorities of the Village of Rosemont that to the extent that the terms of
this Ordinance should be inconsistent with any non-preemptive state law, that
this Ordinance shall supersede state law in that regard within its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-62:   MILITARY SERVICE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Effective December 12, 1994, notwithstanding any other provision of
this chapter, contributions, benefits and creditable service with respect to
qualified military service shall be subject to Section 414(u) of the Internal
revenue Code and the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act
of 1994 ("USERRA").
   B.   Beginning January 1, 2009, to the extent required by Section 414(u)(12)
of the Internal Revenue Code, an individual receiving differential wage
payments (as defined under Section 3401(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code)
from the Village shall be treated as employed by the Village, and the
differential wage payment shall be treated as compensation for purposes of
applying the limits on annual additions under Section 415(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code. This provision shall be applied to all similarly situated
individuals in a reasonably equivalent manner.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-63:   IRS COMPLIANCE PROVISIONS:
   A.   The provisions in this section are to satisfy certain Internal Revenue
Code requirements for a qualified governmental defined benefit plan. They
should be read in conjunction with the remainder of the Fund terms, but shall
govern with respect to the topics covered by this Section.
   B.   Limits On Salary Taken Into Account:
      1.   Effective with respect to plan years beginning on and after July 1,
1996, and before July 1, 2002, the annual salary used to calculate the pension
of a Public Safety Officer which exceeds one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($150,000.00) (as adjusted for cost-of-living increases under Section 401(a)
(17)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code) shall be disregarded for purposes of
computing Public Safety Officer and Village contributions to or benefits due
from the Fund.
      2.   Effective with respect to plan years beginning on and after July 1,
2002, the salary used to calculate the pension of a Public Safety Officer which
exceeds $200,000 (as adjusted for cost-of-living increases in accordance with
Section 401(a)(17)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, i.e. $245,000 for 2009,
2010, and 2011) may not be taken into account in determining benefits or
contributions due for any plan year. The salary used to calculate the pension
of a Public Safety Officer means such salary during the calendar year or such
other consecutive twelve (12) month period over which salary is otherwise
determined under the Fund (the determination period). The cost-of-living
adjustment in effect for a calendar year applies to such salary for the
determination period that begins with or within such calendar year. If the
determination period consists of fewer than twelve (12) months, the limit is an
amount equal to the otherwise applicable limit multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of months in the short determination period,
and the denominator of which is twelve (12). If the salary for any prior
determination period is taken into account in determining an officer's
contributions or benefits for the current plan year, such salary for such prior
determination period is subject to the applicable annual limit in effect for
that prior period.
      3.   As used in this subsection B3, the term "eligible member" means a
person who first became a participant in this Fund prior to the plan year
beginning after December 31, 1995. Pursuant to Section 13212(d)(3)(A) of OBRA
‘93, and the Treasury Regulations issued under that Section, eligible members
are not subject to the limits of Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue
Code and this Section, and the annual limit shall not apply to the extent that
the application of the limit would reduce the amount of salary that is allowed
to be taken into account under the Fund below the amount that was allowed to be
taken into account under the Fund as in effect on July 1, 1993. The limits
referenced in subsections B1 and B2 above apply only to years beginning after
December 31, 1995, and only to individuals who first become public safety
officers in plan years beginning on and after July 1, 1996.
   C.   Effective as of July 1, 1989, the Board shall determine the amount of
any benefit that is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions using
assumptions adopted by the Board by ordinance; such benefits shall not be
subject to employer discretion.
   D.   For purposes of compliance with Section 401(a)(31) of the Internal
Revenue Code, this Section applies notwithstanding any contrary provision or
law that would otherwise limit a distributee's election to make a rollover. A
distributee may elect, at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Board,
to have any portion of an eligible rollover distribution paid directly to an
eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee in a direct rollover.
      1.   "Eligible rollover distribution" means any distribution of all or
any portion of the balance to the credit of the distributee, except that an
eligible rollover distribution does not include: any distribution that is one
of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not less frequently than
annually) made for the life (or the life expectancy) of the distributee or the
joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee and the
distributee's designated beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten (10)
years or more; any distribution to the extent such distribution is required
under Section 401(a)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code; the portion of any
distribution that is not includible in gross income; and any other distribution
which the Internal Revenue Service does not consider eligible for rollover
treatment, such as certain corrective distributions necessary to comply with
the provisions of Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code or any distribution
that is reasonably expected to total less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
during the year.
      2.   Effective January 1, 2002, a portion of a distribution will not fail
to be an eligible rollover distribution merely because the portion consists of
after-tax employee contributions that are not includible in gross income.
However, such portion may be transferred only (i) to an individual retirement
account or annuity described in Section 408(a) or (b) of the Internal Revenue
Code or to a qualified defined contribution plan described in Section 401(a) of
the Internal Revenue Code that agrees to separately account for amounts so
transferred (and earnings thereon), including separately accounting for the
portion of the distribution that is includible in gross income and the portion
of the distribution list that is not so includible; (ii) on or after January 1,
2007, to a qualified defined benefit plan described in Section 401(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code or to an annuity contract described in Section 403(b) of
the Internal Revenue Code, that agrees to separately account for amounts so
transferred (and earnings thereon), including separately accounting for the
portion of the distribution that is includible in gross income and the portion
of the distribution that is not so includible; or (iii) on or after January 1,
2008, to a Roth IRA described in Section 408A of the Internal Revenue Code.
      3.   Effective January 1, 2002, the definition of eligible rollover
distribution also includes a distribution to a surviving spouse, or to a spouse
or former spouse who is an alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations
order, as defined in Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      4.   "Eligible retirement plan" means any of the following that accepts
the distributee's eligible rollover distribution:
         a.   An individual retirement account described in Section 408(a) of
the Internal Revenue Code;
         b.   An individual retirement annuity described in Section 408(b) of
the Internal Revenue Code;
         c.   An annuity plan described in Section 403(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         d.   A qualified trust described in Section 401(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code that agrees to separately account for amounts transferred into
that plan from the Fund; or
         e.   Effective January 1, 2002, an annuity contract described in
Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code that agrees to separately account
for amounts transferred into that plan from the Fund; or
         f.   Effective January 1, 2002, a plan eligible under Section 457(b)
of the Internal Revenue Code that is maintained by a state, political
subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or a
political subdivision of a state that agrees to separately account for amounts
transferred into that plan from the Fund; or
         g.   Effective January 1, 2008, a Roth IRA described in Section 408A
of the Internal Revenue Code.
      5.   "Distributee" means a Public Safety Officer or former Public Safety
Officer. It also includes the Officer's or former Officer's surviving spouse
and the Officer's or former Officer's spouse or former spouse who is the
alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order, as defined in
Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. Effective January 1, 2010, a
distributee further includes a nonspouse beneficiary who is a designated
beneficiary as defined by Section 401(a)(9)(E) of the Internal Revenue Code.
However, a nonspouse beneficiary may only make a direct rollover to an
individual retirement account or individual retirement annuity established for
the purpose of receiving the distribution, and the account or annuity will be
treated as an "inherited" individual retirement account or annuity.
      6.   "Direct rollover" means a payment by the plan to the eligible
retirement plan specified by the distributee.
   E.   Effective as of July 1, 1989, the board may not engage in a transaction
prohibited by Section 503(b) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   F.   The Fund does not accept rollover contributions.
   G.   The Fund does not allow service purchases, except as provided under
USERRA.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-64:   LIMITATIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS AND BENEFITS:
   A.   General Rules: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to
the contrary, the Public Safety Officers' contributions paid to and pensions
paid from the Fund shall be limited to such extent as may be necessary to
conform to the requirements of Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code for a
qualified pension plan. Notwithstanding any other law, the limitation with
respect to a person who first became a Public Safety Officer under the Fund
prior to January 1, 1990 shall not be less than the accrued benefit of the
Public Safety Officer under the Fund (determined without regard to any
amendment of this chapter adopted after October 14, 1987). The limitation year
is the Village's fiscal year.
   B.   Basic 415(b) Limitation:
      1.   Before January 1, 1995, a Public Safety Officer may not receive an
annual benefit that exceeds the limits specified in section 415(b) of the
Internal Revenue Code, subject to the applicable adjustments in that section.
On and after January 1, 1995, a member may not receive an annual benefit that
exceeds the dollar amount specified in section 415(b)(1)(A) of the Internal
Revenue Code, subject to the applicable adjustments in section 415(b) of the
Internal Revenue Code and subject to any additional limits that may be
specified in the Fund. In no event shall a Public Safety Officer's benefit
payable under the Fund in any limitation year be greater than the limit
applicable at the annuity starting date, as increased in subsequent years
pursuant to section 415(d) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations
thereunder.
      2.   For purposes of section 415(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, the
"annual benefit" means a benefit payable annually in the form of a straight
life annuity (with no ancillary benefits) without regard to the benefit
attributable to after-tax employee contributions (except pursuant to section
415(n) of the Internal Revenue Code) and to rollover contributions (as defined
in section 415(b)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code). The "benefit
attributable" shall be determined in accordance with Treasury Regulations.
   C.   Adjustments To Basic 415(b) Limitation For Form Of Benefit: If the
benefit under the Fund is other than the form specified in subsection B2 above,
then the benefit shall be adjusted so that it is the equivalent of the annual
benefit, using factors prescribed in Treasury Regulations.
      1.   If the form of benefit without regard to the automatic benefit
increase feature is not a straight life annuity or a qualified joint and
survivor annuity, then the preceding sentence is applied by either reducing the
Section 415(b) of the Internal Revenue Code limit applicable at the annuity
starting date or adjusting the form of benefit to an actuarially equivalent
amount (determined using the assumptions specified in Treasury Regulation
Section 1.415(b)-1(c)(2)(ii)) that takes into account the additional benefits
under the form of benefit as follows:
      2.   For a benefit paid in a form to which Section 417(e)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code does not apply (i.e., a monthly benefit), the actuarially
equivalent straight life annuity benefit that is the greater of:
         a.   The annual amount of the straight life annuity (if any) payable
to the member under the plan commencing at the same annuity starting date as
the form of benefit to the member, or
         b.   The annual amount of the straight life annuity commencing at the
same annuity starting date that has the same actuarial present value as the
form of benefit payable to the member, computed using a five percent (5%)
interest assumption (or the applicable statutory interest assumption) and (i)
for years prior to January 1, 2009, the applicable mortality tables described
in Treasury Regulation Section 1.417(e)-1(d)(2) (Revenue Ruling 2001-62 or any
subsequent Revenue Ruling modifying the applicable provisions of Revenue
Rulings 2001-62), and (ii) for years after December 31, 2008, the applicable
mortality tables described in Section 417(e)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code
(Notice 2008-85 or any subsequent Internal Revenue Service guidance
implementing Section 417(e)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code); or
      3.   For a benefit paid in a form to which Section 417(e)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code applies (i.e., a lump sum benefit), the actuarially
equivalent straight life annuity benefit that is the greatest of:
         a.   The annual amount of the straight life annuity commencing at the
annuity starting date that has the same actuarial present value as the
particular form of benefit payable, computed using the interest rate and
mortality table, or tabular factor, specified in the Fund for actuarial
experience;
         b.   The annual amount of the straight life annuity commencing at the
annuity starting date that has the same actuarial present value as the
particular form of benefit payable, computed using a 5.5% interest assumption
(or the applicable statutory interest assumption) and (i) for years prior to
January 1, 2009, the applicable mortality tables for the distribution under
Treasury Regulation Section 1.417(e)-1(d)(2) (the mortality table specified in
Revenue Ruling 2001-62 or any subsequent Revenue Ruling modifying the
applicable provisions of Revenue Ruling 2001-62), and (ii) for years after
December 31, 2008, the applicable mortality tables described in Section 417(e)
(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code (Notice 2008-85 or any subsequent Internal
Revenue Service guidance implementing Section 417(e)(3)(B) of the Internal
Revenue Code); or
         c.   The annual amount of the straight life annuity commencing at the
annuity starting date that has the same actuarial present value as the
particular form of benefit payable (computed using the applicable interest rate
for the distribution under Treasury Regulation Section 1.417(e)-1(d)(3) (the
thirty (30) year Treasury rate (prior to January 1 2007, using the rate in
effect for the month prior to retirement, and on and after January 1, 2007,
using the rate in effect for the first day of the plan year with a one-year
stabilization period)) and (i) for years prior to January 1, 2009, the
applicable mortality tables for the distribution under Treasury Regulation
Section 1.417(e)-1(d)(2) (the mortality table specified in Revenue Ruling 2001-
62 or any subsequent Revenue Ruling modifying the applicable provisions of
Revenue Ruling 2001-62), and (ii) for years after December 31, 2008, the
applicable mortality tables described in Section 417(e)(3)(B) of the Internal
Revenue Code (Notice 2008-85 or any subsequent Internal Revenue Service
guidance implementing Section 417(e)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code),
divided by 1.05.
      4.   The actuary may adjust the 415(b) limit at the annuity starting date
in accordance with the above subsections C2 and C3.
   D.   Benefits For Which No Adjustment Of The 415(b) Limit Is Required: For
purposes of this Section, the following benefits shall not be taken into
account in adjusting these limits:
      1.   Any ancillary benefit which is not directly related to retirement
income benefits;
      2.   That portion of any joint and survivor annuity that constitutes a
qualified joint and survivor annuity;
      3.   Any other benefit not required under Section 415(b)(2) of the
Internal Revenue Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder to be taken into
account for purposes of the limitation of Section 415(b)(1) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
   E.   Other Adjustments In 415(b) Limitation:
      1.   In the event the public safety officer's retirement benefits become
payable before age sixty-two (62), the limit prescribed by this Section shall
be reduced in accordance with Treasury Regulations pursuant to the provisions
of Section 415(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, so that such limit (as so
reduced) equals an annual straight life benefit (when such retirement income
benefit begins) which is equivalent to a one hundred sixty thousand dollar
($160,000.00) (as adjusted) annual benefit beginning at age sixty-two (62).
      2.   In the event the public safety officer's benefit is based on at
least fifteen (15) years of service as a full-time employee of any police or
fire department or on fifteen (15) years of military service, the adjustments
provided for in E1 above shall not apply.
      3.   The reductions provided for in E1 above shall not be applicable to
pre-retirement disability benefits or pre-retirement death benefits.
   F.   Less Than Ten (10) Years Of Participation Adjustment For 415(b)
Limitations: The maximum retirement benefits payable to any public safety
officer who has completed less than ten (10) years of participation shall be
the amount determined under subsection C multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of the member's years of participation and the
denominator of which is ten (10). The reduction provided by this subsection
cannot reduce the maximum benefit below ten percent (10%). The reduction
provided for in this subsection shall not be applicable to pre-retirement
disability benefits or pre-retirement death benefits.
   G.   Ten Thousand Dollar ($10,000) Limit: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
retirement benefit payable with respect to a Public Safety Officer shall be
deemed not to exceed the 415 limit if the benefits payable, with respect to
such member under this plan and under all other qualified defined benefit
pension plans to which the Village contributes, do not exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) for the applicable limitation year and for any prior
limitation year and the Village has not any time maintained a qualified defined
contribution plan in which the officer participated.
   H.   Effect of COLA without a Lump Sum Component on 415(b) Testing:
Effective on and after January 1, 2008, for purposes of applying the limits
under Section 415(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Limit") to a Public
Safety Officer with no lump sum benefit, the following will apply:
      1.   A Public Safety Officer’s applicable Limit will be applied to the
Officer's annual benefit in the Officer's first limitation year without regard
to any cost of living increases under section
6-12-14;
      2.   To the extent that the Public Safety Officer's annual benefit equals
or exceeds the Limit, the Officer's benefit will be limited by the Limit; and
      3.   Thereafter, in any subsequent limitation year, a Public Safety
Officer’s annual benefit, including any cost of living increases under section
6-12-14, shall be tested under the then applicable benefit Limit including any
adjustment to the Section 415(b)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code dollar
limit under Section 415(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, and the regulations
thereunder.
   I.   Section 415(c) Limitations On Contributions And Other Additions: After-
tax member contributions or other annual additions with respect to a Public
Safety Officer may not exceed the lesser of forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00)
(as adjusted pursuant to Section 415(d) of the Internal Revenue Code) or one
hundred percent (100%) of the Officer's compensation. Annual additions are
defined to mean the sum (for any year) of Village contributions to a defined
contribution plan, Officer contributions (determined without regard to picked-
up employee contributions that are paid to a defined benefit plan), and
forfeitures credited to a Officer's individual account in a defined
contribution plan. "Compensation" for purposes of this Section, subject to
annual limits under Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code, shall be
as defined under Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(d)(4) and shall exclude
officer contributions that are picked up by the employer under Internal Revenue
Code Section 414(h). Amounts described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-
2(e)(3)(iii) are included in compensation if paid within the limitations
prescribed under Treasury Regulation Section 1.415(c)-2(e)(3)(i)(A) and (B).
   J.   Repayments Of Cashouts: Any repayment of contributions (including
interest thereon) to the Fund with respect to an amount previously refunded
upon a forfeiture of service credit under the Fund or another governmental plan
maintained by the Village shall not be taken into account for purposes of
Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code, in accordance with applicable
Treasury Regulations.
   K.   Participation In Other Qualified Plans: Aggregation Of Limits:
      1.   The 415(b) limit with respect to any Public Safety Officer who at
any time has been a member in any other defined benefit plan as defined in
Section 414(j) of the Internal Revenue Code maintained by the Village shall
apply as if the total benefits payable under all such defined benefit plans in
which the member has been a officer were payable from one (1) plan.
      2.   The 415(c) limit with respect to any public safety officer who at
any time has been a member in any defined contribution plan as defined in
Section 414(i) of the Internal Revenue Code maintained by the Village shall
apply as if the total annual additions under all such defined contribution
plans in which the officer has been a member were payable from one (1) plan.
   L.   Reduction Of Benefits Priority: Reduction of benefits and/or
contributions to all plans, where required, shall be accomplished by first
reducing the public safety officer's benefit under any defined benefit plans in
which the officer participated, such reduction to be made first with respect to
the plan in which the officer most recently accrued benefits and thereafter in
such priority as shall be determined by the plan and the plan administrator of
such other plans, and next, by reducing or allocating excess forfeitures for
defined contribution plans in which the officer participated, such reduction to
be made first with respect to the plan in which the officer most recently
accrued benefits and thereafter in such priority as shall be established by the
plan and the plan administrator for such other plans provided, however, that
necessary reductions may be made in a different manner and priority pursuant to
the agreement of the plan and the plan administrator of all other plans
covering such officer.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
6-12-65: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and approval
and shall subsequently be published in pamphlet form as provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-12-14F, 12-14-2011)
TITLE 7: MORALS AND CONDUCT
CHAPTER 1: CITATION VIOLATIONS
Section
7-1-1:   Violators Of Business, Dog, Vehicle And Traffic Regulations
7-1-2:   Contents Of Citations
7-1-3:   Procedure For Compromise Payment
7-1-4:   Prima Facie Proof
7-1-5:   Schedule Of Compromise Payments
7-1-1: VIOLATORS OF BUSINESS, DOG, VEHICLE AND TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
A public safety officer is authorized to arrest a person without a warrant
because of a violation of this Code or an ordinance in respect of any of the
following subjects:
   A.   Prohibiting the parking of a vehicle in a designated area.
   B.   Restricting the length of time a vehicle may be parked.
   C.   Requiring the purchase and display of a vehicle sticker.
   D.   Regulating and licensing dogs.
   E.   Regulating and licensing businesses.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-1-2: CONTENTS OF CITATIONS:
A public safety officer may, in lieu of the filing of a complaint in court, in
the first instance, issue to the alleged violator a citation:
   A.   Advising the person that he has violated this Code or a specified
ordinance;
   B.   Requesting him to make payment in an amount applicable to such alleged
violation as set forth in section 7-1-5 of this chapter as settlement of the
claim;
   C.   Informing him that, upon failure to so settle, a complaint will be
filed in the appropriate jurisdiction charging him with such violation.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-1-3: PROCEDURE FOR COMPROMISE PAYMENT:
   A.   Pursuant to the citation under this chapter, the person so accused of
such violation may settle and compromise the violation claim in respect of this
Code or such ordinance violation by paying to the Village the applicable amount
as shown in the schedule set forth in section 7-1-5 of this chapter, within a
period to be specified in the citation, not more than seven (7) days of the
time the alleged offense was committed.
   B.   The payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions contained
in the citation at the Office of the Village Clerk who shall issue a receipt
for the money so received and promptly remit such amount to the Finance Officer
to be credited to the proper Village fund.
   C.   In the event that the person to whom the citation is issued fails to
settle and pay the violation claim within the prescribed time or within a
period of time specified in a final notice (if one is served upon him), then
the public safety officer is authorized to cause a notice to appear to be
served upon the alleged violator and is authorized to file a complaint and to
prosecute the same in the Circuit Court of Cook County.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-1-4: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that an automobile or motor vehicle which is illegally operated or
parked is registered with the Secretary of State in the name of the alleged
violator, or in the alternative, in the event that a vehicle sticker issued by
a municipality has been issued in the name of and to the alleged violator,
shall be considered prima facie proof that the alleged violator was in control
of or was the operator of the automobile or motor vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-1-5: SCHEDULE OF COMPROMISE PAYMENTS:
The violation claim described in the citation under this chapter so to be
issued pursuant to the terms of this Code or this chapter may be settled,
compromised and paid in the respective amounts set forth in the following
schedule:
   A.   In the event that the payment is made prior to the mailing by the
Village or by the public safety officer of a final notice, the following
amounts shall be accepted as settlement:
 
Improper parking    $25.00
No vehicle sticker  15.00
No dog license      15.00
No business license 75.00
 
   B.   In the event that payment has not been made prior to the mailing of the
final notice and, in fact, final notice has been mailed, the following amounts
shall be accepted as settlement:
 
Improper parking    $35.00
No vehicle sticker  30.00
No dog license      30.00
No business license 75.00
 
   C.   In the event that payment is not made within the time prescribed in the
final notice, and notice to appeal has been served and a complaint filed,
payment of any fine and costs shall be in such amounts as may be determined and
established by the Circuit Court of Cook County or the hearing officer.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
CHAPTER 2: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY AND PEACE
Section
7-2-1:   Injury To Persons, Damage To Property Upon Public Highway
7-2-2:   Assault, Battery, And Fighting
7-2-3:   Barbed Wire Fences
7-2-4:   Removal Of Safety Devices On Public Ways
7-2-5:   Burning On Public Property
7-2-6:   Casting Rinds Or Peels On Sidewalks
7-2-7:   Exhibiting Dangerous Animals
7-2-8:   Notify Department Of Public Safety Of Alcohol Consumption By A Minor
On Hotel Or Motel Premises
7-2-9:   Intoxicated Persons
7-2-10:   Musical Performances On Public Property
7-2-11:   Obstructing Water Flows
7-2-12:   Sale Or Providing Poisons
7-2-13:   Careless Smoking
7-2-14:   Order In Public Places
7-2-15:   Shooting Birds; Disturbing Nests
7-2-16:   Throwing Objects
7-2-17:   Throwing Glass
7-2-18:   Loitering
7-2-19:   Over Occupancy Of Hotel Or Motel Rooms
7-2-20:   Disturbing Worship Assemblies
7-2-21:   Discharge Of Firearms
7-2-22:   Penalty
7-2-1: INJURY TO PERSONS, DAMAGE TO PROPERTY UPON PUBLIC HIGHWAY: 
Any person who, while riding, driving or propelling a bicycle, motorcycle,
automobile, carriage, wagon or other vehicle, runs against, upon or over any
person upon the public highway, so as to cause an injury to such person or
property, and who does not stop at once to ascertain the extent of such injury
and to render such assistance as may be needed, and who refuses to give his
true name and residence when asked by the person so injured, or by any public
safety officer, or by any other person in behalf of the injured person, shall
be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
8-1-6  of this Code
7-2-2: ASSAULT, BATTERY, AND FIGHTING:
   A.   Assault: It shall be unlawful for any person, without lawful authority,
to engage in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of
receiving a battery.
   B.   Battery: It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or
knowingly, without legal jurisdiction, and by any means cause bodily harm to
another, or make physical contact of insulting or provoking nature with
another.
   C.   Fighting: It shall be unlawful for any person to physically fight with
another person without legal justification.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who is found liable of violating this section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 92-7-1C, 7-1-1992; amd. Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017; Ord. 2021-4-12D, 4-
12-2021)
7-2-3: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
   A.   No person shall build, construct, use or maintain any fence or barrier
consisting or made of what is called “barbed wire” or of which barbed wire is a
part, within the Village along the line of or upon or along any street, alley
or public walk or drive, or through, along or around any public park, or in or
about or along any land or lots or parks owned or controlled by the Village.
   B.   Wherever in the Village, in, along or through any public street, alley
or park, barbed wire is found in use in part or in whole for a fence or
barrier, the same shall forthwith be removed by the Department of Public
Safety.
   C.   No person being the owner, lessee or agent of any real estate in the
Village shall erect, maintain or permit to be erected or maintained on or about
the exterior building line of such real estate, or upon any portion of the
sidewalk adjacent to such real estate, any railing, fence, guard or protection
of any kind of barbed wire, or upon which railing, fence, guard or other
protection there shall be affixed or placed or in any manner attached, any
spike, nail or pointed instrument of any kind or description, under the penalty
of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each and every day such person fails
or neglects to remove from such railing, fence or other protection, any such
spike, nail or other pointed instrument, after notice in writing from the
Department of Public Safety, he/she shall be deemed guilty of a new, separate
and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-4: REMOVAL OF SAFETY DEVICES ON PUBLIC WAYS:
No person shall remove any barricade or light or danger signal erected in front
of or about any defective sidewalk or street within the Village, or in front or
about any sidewalk or street under repair or undergoing reconstruction within
the Village, or in any way interfere with, change or destroy such barricade,
light or other danger signal until such sidewalk or street is repaired or
rebuilt, under a penalty of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-5: BURNING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall burn any standing hay or grass or set fire to or burn any
leaves or other combustible material in any park or public grounds within the
corporate limits of the Village, or burn any leaves or other combustible
material or build any bonfire upon any brick, asphalt or block pavement in the
Village in such a manner as to obstruct passage or endanger neighboring
property, under a penalty of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). It shall be the duty of the
Department of Public Safety to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-6: CASTING RINDS OR PEELS ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall throw, cast, lay or place on any sidewalk in the Village the
rind or peel of any orange, banana, apple or other fruit, under a penalty of
not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-7: EXHIBITING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
No person shall permit any bear or other dangerous animal to run at large, nor
lead any such animal with a chain or rope or other appliance, whether such
animal be muzzled or unmuzzled, in any street, avenue, lane, highway or public
place within the Village, under a penalty of not more than seven hundred
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-8: NOTIFY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY OF ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION BY A MINOR ON
HOTEL PREMISES:
Each operator of a hotel or motel shall at all times have an individual present
within the hotel or motel that has the responsibility to supervise the
operation of the hotel or motel. The employee or staff member of a hotel or
motel that has the responsibility of overseeing the operation of said hotel or
motel shall have the affirmative obligation to report any knowledge he/she
obtains of the use of alcohol by any minor on the premises of the hotel or
motel to the Public Safety Department. A violation of this section shall result
in a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-9: INTOXICATED PERSONS:
   A.   Generally: If any person shall be in a state of intoxication in any
highway, street, alley, thoroughfare or public place in the Village, or in any
private house or place, to the annoyance of any citizens or persons, he shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction, shall be fined in any sum
not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   Consumption Of Alcoholic Liquor And Possession Of Open Containers Of
Alcoholic Liquor In Parks And On Sidewalks, Streets And Public Rights Of Way
Prohibited; Parking Prohibited: Except as provided in subsections 1, 2 and 3
below, no person may consume, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor in a
park or on a public street, sidewalk or other public right of way except in the
unopened original container and with the seal, if any, unbroken.
      1.   The provisions of this section shall not apply where a person who
has or is consuming, carrying, or possessing the alcoholic liquor is attending
an event for which a Class G liquor license has been issued by the Village.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the passengers in
a limousine when it is being used for purposes for which a limousine is
ordinarily used, the passengers on a chartered bus other than a bus used for
school purposes, when the chartered bus is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home or mini motor home as
defined in section 1-145.01 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-145/01).
However, the driver of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having
any alcoholic liquor in or about the driver’s area. Any evidence of alcoholic
consumption by the driver shall be prima facie evidence of such driver’s
failure to obey this section. For the purposes of this section, a limousine is
a motor vehicle of the first division as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code
with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or dividing window used
in the for-hire transportation of passengers and operated by an individual in
possession of a valid State driver’s license of the appropriate classification
pursuant to section 6-104 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-104).
      3.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the common area of
the Park at Rosemont Entertainment District.
      4.   For purposes of this section, “alcoholic liquor” shall be defined as
set forth in section 1-3.05 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act (235 ILCS 5/1-
3.05).
      5.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2011-8-10C, 8-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-10: MUSICAL PERFORMANCES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall use or perform with any hand or band organ or other
musical instrument in any of the streets or public places in the Village before
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. of each day. This
subsection shall not apply to band music or any organized musical society
engaged in serenading, or civic or military parade.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
a penalty of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-11: OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOWS:
No person shall stop or obstruct the passage of water in any street, gutter,
public sewer, culvert, water pipe or hydrant, under a penalty of not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-12: SALE OR PROVIDING POISONS:
No poisonous medicine, concoction, or substance shall be held for sale or sold,
except for lawful purposes and with proper motives, and by persons competent to
give the proper directions and precautions as to the use of the same; nor shall
any bottle, box, parcel or receptacle thereof be delivered to any person unless
the same is marked “Poison” nor to any person whom the party delivering the
same has reason to think intends it for any illegal or improper use or purpose,
under the penalty of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-13: CARELESS SMOKING:
   A.   Any person who, by smoking or attempting to light or smoke cigarettes,
cigars, pipes, or tobacco in any manner in which lighters or matches are
employed, who shall, in any careless, reckless or negligent manner whatsoever,
whether wilfully or wantonly or not, set fire to any bedding, furniture,
curtains, drapes, house or any household fittings, or any part of any building
whatsoever, so as to endanger life or property in any way or to any extent,
shall be guilty of violating this section.
   B.   Any person in the Village failing to comply with the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a penalty of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-14: ORDER IN PUBLIC PLACES:
Hackmen, cabmen, draymen, omnibus drivers, porters, runners and other persons,
when at or about any public place in the Village, shall obey the commands and
directions of the public safety officer who may be stationed or doing duty on
or about such station or other place, for the preservation of order and
enforcing this Code and the ordinances of the Village. Whoever shall refuse to
obey the commands and directions of a public safety officer as aforesaid, shall
be fined not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-15: SHOOTING BIRDS; DISTURBING NESTS:
Every person who shall kill or wound, or attempt to kill or wound, by the use
of firearms, slingshot, bow and arrow, pelting with stones or otherwise any
quail, pheasant, robin, blue jay, or any other song, plumage or game bird,
within any private ground or public park, squares, streets or grounds, or
taking the eggs of young of any such quail, pheasant, robin, blue jay or other
song, plumage or game bird within any private enclosure or public ground
belonging to the Village for the purpose of doing any act prohibited in this
section shall forfeit and pay not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-16: THROWING OBJECTS:
   A.   No person shall throw or cause to be thrown, cast or put into or leave
in or on any street, alley sidewalk, public place or enclosed public ground in
the Village any stone, missile, nails, tacks, ice, glass, broken crockery or
china, iron or metal scraps, or any other article or thing by which persons,
animals or vehicles shall or may be injured or endangered, under a penalty of
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   B.   No person shall cast or throw any stone or other missile upon or at any
building, railroad cars, tree, or other public or private property, or upon or
at any person in any street, avenue, alley, lane, public place, or any enclosed
or unenclosed ground in the Village, or aid or abet in the same, under a fine
for each offense of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-17: THROWING GLASS:
   A.   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street, sidewalk, or
other public place within the Village any glass bottle, window glass, or any
other article made of or containing glass, and in the case of the accidental
breaking of any glass upon any such street, sidewalk or public place, the owner
or person in charge of such glass, or the person responsible for such breakage,
shall at once remove the same from such street, sidewalk or public place.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-18: LOITERING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or
remain idle, either alone and/or in consort with others, in a public place in
such manner so as to:
      1.   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
      2.   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place
or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress,
and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
   B.   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated in
subsection A of this section, a public safety officer or any law enforcement
officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions
and to move on or disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders
shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
   C.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Any such
violation shall constitute a separate offense on each successive day continued.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-19: OVER OCCUPANCY OF HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS:
   A.   The operator of any hotel or motel shall not knowingly allow any room
within the hotel or motel that is intended to be used for sleeping to, at any
time, be occupied by a number of individuals that exceeds the following
formula:
(2 times the number of beds in the room), plus (the number of seating positions
on all the furniture provided by the hotel or motel within the room)
   B.   Any individual that contracts for the use and occupancy of a hotel or
motel sleeping room shall not allow the room they are authorized to use to, at
any time, be occupied by a number of individuals that exceeds the following
formula:
(2 times the number of beds in the room), plus (the number of seating positions
on all the furniture provided by the hotel or motel within the room)
   C.   The operator of any hotel or motel and any individual that is violation
of this section shall, upon conviction, be fined an amount that is not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-20: DISTURBING WORSHIP ASSEMBLIES:
Any person who disturbs any congregation or assembly meeting for religious
worship by making any noise or by rude or indecent behavior or profane
discourse within the place of worship, or so near the same as to disturb the
order and solemnity of the meeting, shall be fined not exceeding seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-2-21: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
   A.   No person, except a member of the Public Safety Department, when on
duty, or any officer of any court whose duty it may be to serve warrants or
make arrests, shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol, fowling piece or other
firearm, within the corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or possess on or about his
person, within the Allstate Arena or on or about the areas adjoining the
Allstate Arena, including, but not limited to all parking areas, any pistol,
revolver, derringer, taser, stun-gun, or other firearm, any knife, the blade of
which is released by a spring mechanism, including knives known as
switchblades, any stiletto, dagger, dirk, bully knife, commando knife, throwing
star, any knife the blade of which is two inches (2") in length or longer, any
billy, blackjack, slingshot, throwing star, stand club, sandbag, knuckles or
bludgeon or any other dangerous or deadly weapon.
   C.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to Public Safety officers and personnel and public
service officers while in the performance of their duties.
   D.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In addition to all of the penalties herein
provided, any weapon used or possessed in violation of this section shall be
forfeited to an confiscated by the Village.
(Ord. 91-4-3H, 4-3-1991)
7-2-22: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, where a
specified fine has not been provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
CHAPTER 3: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
7-3-1:   Disorderly Houses
7-3-2:   Disorderly Persons
7-3-3:   Disorderly Conduct
7-3-4:   Obscene Or Immoral Billposting
7-3-5:   Indecent Writings Or Drawings
7-3-6:   Urinating or Defecating In Public
7-3-7:   Unlawful Burials
7-3-8:   Animal Fights And Indecent Exhibitions
7-3-9:   Fortunetelling
7-3-10:   Fraud At Spiritual Or Religious Gatherings
7-3-11:   Possession Of Burglary Tools
7-3-1: DISORDERLY HOUSES:
Every person who shall keep or maintain any bawdy or disorderly house, or any
house or other place where any person is permitted or suffered to make any
improper noise or disturbance, or any house or other place where any minor is
permitted to drink intoxicating drinks of any kind, or play with dice,
dominoes, cards, balls or other articles used in gambling shall, on conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-3-2: DISORDERLY PERSONS:
   A.   As used herein, a DISORDERLY PERSON shall be defined as:
      1.   Any person who engages in an illegal occupation or business, and any
person who attends, frequents, operates or who is an occupant of any place
where any illegal or immoral business or occupation is permitted or conducted;
      2.   Any person who shall be drunk or intoxicated in any public place or
under the influence of any narcotic drug in any public place in the Village;
      3.   Any prostitute or any person found loitering in a house of ill fame
or prostitution, or in a place where prostitution or lewdness is practiced,
encouraged or allowed, or any person who frequents or is found present in such
places, or any person soliciting for purposes of prostitution or is offering
himself, herself or others as subjects of prostitution;
      4.   All persons who shall collect or assemble in crowds and bodies for
unlawful or mischievous purposes in any place in the Village to the annoyance
or inconvenience of other persons, or who shall be involved in, or incite, or
attempt to incite a riot, or who shall fail to disperse upon the command of a
public safety officer or other lawful authority;
      5.   All persons who collect or assemble and stand or sit in crowds or
loiter about or hinder, obstruct, impede or block the free and uninterrupted
passage of any sidewalk, street, alley, driveway or the means of entry of any
place of business in the Village, or in any hall, stairway, office, court room
or public hall or building or any other public place in the Village, and who
fails to disperse upon the command of a public safety officer or other lawful
authority;
      6.   All persons who shall be found jostling or roughly crowding people
unnecessarily in a public place by being offensive to public order or decency;
      7.   All persons that stand, loiter or stroll about in any public place
awaiting or seeking an opportunity to obtain money or things of value from
others by trick or fraud or to aid or assist therein;
      8.   All persons that engage in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to
obtain or that do obtain money or other things of value in any place in the
Village, or that aid or abet or in any manner are involved in such scheme,
device or trick;
      9.   Any person that keeps or maintains a gaming room, gaming tables or
any policy or pool tickets used for gaining, or knowingly permits a gaming
room, gaining tables, or any policy or pool tickets to be kept, maintained,
played or sold on any premises occupied or controlled by him, and any person
knowingly frequenting any of the aforementioned places, and any person having
such paraphernalia in his possession;
      10.   Any person who shall commit any indecent, lewd or filthy act in any
public place which is offensive to public order or decency;
      11.   Any person who shall utter any lewd or filthy words, or use any
threatening language toward any other person, or shall make any obscene gesture
to or about any other person in any public place which is likely to provoke the
average person to retaliation and thereby cause a breach of the peace; and
   B.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of the offense of “disorderly person” and be subject to a fine not
exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-3-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
      1.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      2.   With the intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or
not conversation thereby ensues;
      3.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted, in any manner to the Public
Safety Department a false alarm of fire, knowing that there was no reasonable
grounds for believing that such fire existed;
      4.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in any place and that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
but there was no reasonable grounds for believing that such bomb or explosive
was concealed in said place;
      5.   Transmits in any manner to any police or public employee a report to
the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at that the time of such
transmission that there was no reasonable grounds for believing that such an
offense has been committed;
      6.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks in the dwelling on said property through any window
or other opening in it; or
      7.   Assembles, congregates or collects in bodies, crowds, groups of
three (3) or more for any unlawful purpose, or for any purpose to the
annoyances or disturbance of others within the limits of the Village, nor shall
any person in a body of three (3) or more persons congregate, loiter, linger,
stand together or near to each other on any sidewalk, street, alley, public
parking lot, public park or public passageway or in front of, about or upon any
stairway, doorway or window of any church, theater, auditorium, school, hall or
other public building so as to obstruct, block, impede or interfere with the
free passage of any person or persons on or upon said public sidewalks, streets
and ways, so as to obstruct, impede or interfere with free passage of persons
entering or occupying any such public buildings or premises or any premises
fronting upon any public sidewalk, street or way, when requested to immediately
disperse and move any public safety officer, public service officer or other
public official; nor shall any person in a body of three (3) or more persons by
his language, conversation, conduct or signage, annoy, insult or disturb
persons passing on or along any public street, alley, parking lot, park or
passageway, or occupying or being within any public building or any place of
business or occupying or found within any residence or dwelling structure
within the Village.
   B.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of the offense of disorderly conduct and shall be subject to a fined not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 92-7-1B, 7-1-1992)
7-3-4: OBSCENE OR IMMORAL BILLPOSTING:
No person shall, within the limits of the Village, post or cause to be posted
any advertisement containing pictures or illustrations of any obscene or
immoral character which is utterly without any redeeming social value and
predominantly appeals to the prurient interest of the public, all of which
affronts the prevailing contemporary standards of the community as a whole,
under a penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-3-5: INDECENT WRITINGS OR DRAWINGS:
Any person who shall, in any public place, or place open to public view within
the Village, write or draw, cut, make or exhibit any lewd or indecent word,
sentence, design or figure, (where applicable hereunder, that which is obscene
and utterly without any redeeming social value and which appeals to the
prurient interest of the public so as to affront the prevailing contemporary
standards of the community as a whole), shall be subject to a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-3-6: URINATING OR DEFECATING IN PUBLIC:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate
in or on any street, sidewalk, alley, plaza, park, public building or in any
other place opened to the public or exposed to public view.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to urination or defecation which is
done in any enclosure or other public facility designated for use as a toilet
or lavatory.
      2.   This section shall not apply to the act of urinating or defecating
in public if the act was due to a verified medical condition or physical
impairment that renders the act beyond a person’s bodily control. A person with
an impairment shall not include intoxicated individuals or individuals who are
impaired due to the ingestion of illegal substances.
   C.   Penalty: Any person found violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined in an amount not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   D.   Administrative Adjudication: Violations of this section are subject to
prosecution under the Village’s administrative proceedings established pursuant
to Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A of this Code, as now or hereafter amended. The
provisions of this subsection shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this section,
including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, or before another administrative tribunal which has
jurisdiction to consider the violation.
(Ord. 2010-9-1A, 9-1-2010)
7-3-7: UNLAWFUL BURIALS:
Any person who buries or assists in burying any corpse or dead person within
the limits of the Village shall be subject to a penalty of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and
the necessary costs and expenses incurred in such prosecution.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-3-8: ANIMAL FIGHTS AND INDECENT EXHIBITIONS:
No person shall instigate, cause or procure any dog fight, cock fight or any
public or private fighting, or in any manner instigate, cause or procure, or
assist in any indecent or immoral show or exhibition of any animal, under a
penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-3-9: FORTUNETELLING:
   A.   No person shall advertise by display sign, circular, handbill or any
form of material distributed in the Village or by any other means an ability to
tell fortunes or reveal the future, to find or restore lost or stolen property,
to locate oil wells, gold, silver or other ore or metal or natural product, to
communicate with the deceased, or otherwise give any advice to others by means
of supernatural powers, clairvoyance, the summoning of spirits, mediumship,
seer ship, astrology, palmistry, necromancy, magic, or through the reading and
interpretation of any material or articles including, but not limited to, tarot
cards, cards, talismans, charms, crystal balls, tea leaves, sticks, potions,
magnetic articles or similar articles of any kind or nature.
   B.   No person in the Village shall engage in the practice of, teach, or
demonstrate any method of telling fortunes, revealing the future, finding or
restoring lost or stolen property, locating oil wells, gold, silver or other
ore or metal or natural product, communicating with the deceased, or otherwise
give any advice to others by means of supernatural powers, clairvoyance, the
summoning of spirits, mediumship, seer ship, astrology, palmistry, necromancy,
magic, or through the reading and interpretation of any material or articles
including, but not limited to, tarot cards, cards, talismans, charms, crystal
balls, tea leaves, sticks, potions, magnetic articles or similar articles of
any kind or nature.
   C.   A violation of this section shall be a public nuisance.
   D.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall pay a fine of
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each calendar day on which an act
prohibited by this section shall be a separate offense. Upon the conviction of
a second offense within a one year period, the minimum fine shall be increased
to one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second offense and for each subsequent
offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-3-10: FRAUD AT SPIRITUAL OR RELIGIOUS GATHERINGS:
Any person who shall hold or give any public or private meetings, gatherings,
cycles or seances of any kind in the name of spiritualism or any other
religious body, society or denomination, and therein practice or permit to be
practiced fraud or deception of any kind shall, on conviction thereof, be
punishable by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-3-11: POSSESSION OF BURGLARY TOOLS:
No person shall have in his possession any nippers of the description known as
“burglar’s nippers”, picklock skeleton key to be used with a bit or bits,
jimmy, or other burglar instruments or tools of whatsoever kind or description,
unless it be shown that such possession is innocent or for a lawful purpose,
under the penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
ARTICLE A: SEX RELATED OFFENSES
Section
7-3A-1:   Definitions
7-3A-2:   Public Indecency
7-3A-3:   Prostitution
7-3A-4:   Solicitation Of A Sexual Act
7-3A-5:   Soliciting For A Prostitute
7-3A-6:   Keeping A Place Of Prostitution
7-3A-7:   Patronizing A Prostitute
7-3A-8:   Seizure And Forfeiture
7-3A-9:   Prosecution Of Violations
7-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation in this article
unless the context requires otherwise:
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be
viewed by others.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Any intentional or knowing touching or fondling by a person
over the age of seventeen (17), either directly or through clothing, of the sex
organs, anus or breast of another person over the age of thirteen (13), or of
any part of the body of a child under thirteen (13) years of age, or any
transfer or transmission of semen by a person upon any part of the clothed or
unclothed body of another person for the purpose of sexual gratification or
arousal of either person.
SEXUAL PENETRATION: Any contact, however slight, between the sex organ or anus
of one person by an object, the sex organ, mouth or anus of another person, or
any intrusion, however slight, of any part of the body of one person or of any
animal or object into the sex organ or anus of another person, including but
not limited to cunnilingus, fellatio or anal penetration. Evidence of emission
of semen is not required to prove sexual penetration.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
7-3A-2: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   1.   Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and upwards who
performs any of the following acts in a public place commits a public
indecency:
         a.   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct as defined in
section 7-3A-1; or
         b.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
      2.   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   B.   Any person convicted of any violation of this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
7-3A-3: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual
penetration as defined in section 7-3A-1 for any money, property, token,
object, or article or anything of value, or any touching or fondling of the sex
organs of one person by another person, for any money, property, token, object,
or article or anything of value, for the purpose of sexual arousal or
gratification commits an act of prostitution.
   B.   Any person found guilty of committing an act of prostitution as set
forth in subsection A shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
and every offense. Each separate act of prostitution shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
7-3A-4: SOLICITATION OF A SEXUAL ACT:
   A.   Any person who offers a person not his spouse any money, property,
token, object, or article or anything of value to perform any act of sexual
penetration as defined in section 7-3A-1, or any touching or fondling of the
sex organs of one person by another person for the purpose of sexual arousal or
gratification, commits the offense of solicitation of a sexual act.
   B.   Any person found guilty of committing the offense of soliciting a
sexual act as set forth in subsection A shall be subject to a fine of not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each and every offense. Each separate incident of soliciting a
sexual act shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
7-3A-5: SOLICITING FOR A PROSTITUTE:
   A.   Any person who performs any of the following acts commits soliciting
for a prostitute:
      1.   Solicits another for the purpose of prostitution;
      2.   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose
of prostitution; or
      3.   Directs another to a place knowing such direction is for the purpose
of prostitution.
   B.   Any person found guilty of committing the offense of soliciting for a
prostitute as set forth in subsection A shall be subject to a fine of not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each and every offense. Each separate incident of soliciting for
a prostitute shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
7-3A-6: KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Any person who has or exercises control over the use of any place which
could offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution who performs
any of the following acts keeps a place of prostitution:
      1.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of
prostitution;
      2.   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from
which he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for
purposes of prostitution; or
      3.   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of facts
or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is being
used for purposes of prostitution.
   B.   Any person found guilty of committing the offense of keeping a place of
prostitution as set forth in subsection A shall be subject to a fine of not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense. Each six (6) hour period or part
thereof that a person engages in conduct that constitutes keeping a house of
prostitution shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
7-3A-7: PATRONIZING A PROSTITUTE:
   A.   Any person who performs any of the following acts with a person not his
spouse commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
      1.   Engages in an act of sexual penetration as defined in section 7-3A-
1 with a prostitute; or
      2.   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution with intent to engage
in an act of sexual penetration as defined in section 7-3A-1.
   B.   Any person found guilty of committing the offense of patronizing a
prostitute as set forth in subsection A shall be subject to a fine of not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each and every offense. Each separate incident of patronizing a
prostitute shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
7-3A-8: SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE:
All money, property, token, object, or article or anything of value that is
exchanged in connection with the performance of an act of prostitution, the
soliciting of a sexual act, the soliciting of a prostitute, the keeping of a
place of prostitution or the patronizing of a prostitute is declared to be
contraband subject to seizure and any such money, property, token, object, or
article or thing of value shall be subject to forfeiture upon a finding of
guilty of any person for a violation of sections 7-3A-3 through 7-3A-7 of this
article. Upon appropriate order of court or administrative hearing officer said
money, property, token, object, or article or thing of value shall be disposed
of in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
7-3A-9: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS:
Violations of the provisions of this article are subject to prosecution under
the Village’s administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to
Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A as now or hereafter amended. The provisions of
this section shall not preclude the Village from using other methods or
proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this article, including,
without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit Court of Cook
County, or before another administrative tribunal which has jurisdiction to
consider the violation.
(Ord. 2007-6-6C, 6-6-2007)
CHAPTER 4: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
7-4-1:   Damaging Property
7-4-2:   Trespassing
7-4-3:   Damaging Lights And Utility Wires
7-4-4:   Damaging, Trespassing, Putting Materials On Property
7-4-5:   Damaging Trees And Shrubs
7-4-6:   Use Of Parkways
7-4-7:   Obstructing Public Ways Generally
7-4-8:   Obstructing Public Ways By Sports, Games, Amusements Or Exhibitions
7-4-9:   Obstructing Streets By Railroad Companies
7-4-10:   Playing On Railroad Property
7-4-11:   Billposting And Notices
7-4-1: DAMAGING PROPERTY:
   A.   Any person who wilfully, maliciously or negligently breaks, defaces,
injures, displaces or destroys any property of the State, County, Village,
school district or other governmental agency, or any private property, or any
sewer, water pipe or hydrant laid or placed by the Village shall be subject to
a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and the amount of the repair.
   B.   Any person who shall, within the Village, cut, injure, remove or
destroy any fruit, ornamental or shade tree, or the boxing around the same, or
any fence, railing, gate, post, sign, or any topsoil from any public ground,
sidewalk or private premises, or injure, take or destroy any tree, shrub,
fruit, flower, plant, vegetable or other thing which may be therein for
ornament or utility shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-4-2: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall commit a trespass within the Village upon either
public or private property.
      2.   For purposes of subsection 1 above, a trespass is committed by any
person who enters upon the land or building or any part thereof of another, if
such person, prior to entering upon the land or building, received notice from
the owner or authorized occupant of the land or building that such entry is
forbidden. For purposes of subsection 1 above, a trespass is also committed by
any person who remains upon the land or building or any part there of another
after receiving notice from the owner or occupant or duly authorized
representative that such person is not permitted to remain on the land or in
the building. For purposes of this subsection 2, a person shall be considered
to have received notice if the person has been notified personally, either in
writing or orally. Written notice may take the form of either a court order, or
a printed or written notice that is posted or exhibited in a conspicuous place
at or near the main entry to the land or building and states that the entry or
remaining on the land or building is prohibited. The provisions of this
subsection 2 are not limited and do not restrict the application of subsection
B below.
   B.   Trespasses Enumerated: Without constituting any limitation upon the
provisions of subsection A of this section, any of the following acts by any
person shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in
violation of the provisions of subsection A of this section, and appropriate
action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or
suppress any violation of subsection A of this section, the aforesaid
enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
      1.   Any entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to such premises or at any point of approach or entry, or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      2.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to such premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      3.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in the
case of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      4.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   Violations of this section are subject to prosecution under the
Village’s administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to Title
1, Chapter 4, Article A as now or hereafter amended. The provisions of this
section shall not preclude the Village from using other methods or proceedings
to adjudicate alleged violations of this section, including, without
limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County,
or before another administrative tribunal which has jurisdiction to consider
the violation.
      2.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
upon conviction, or upon an administrative determination that a violation
occurred, shall be fined in an amount of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each
trespass shall, constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-3-5, 3-5-2008)
7-4-3: DAMAGING LIGHTS AND UTILITY WIRES:
Any person who shall carelessly or maliciously break, deface, disturb,
interfere with, carry away or in any way injure or destroy any electric light,
lamp, globe or any part of or appurtenances to any lamp or light of any kind
used in or upon or about any street, alley or public place in the Village, or
who shall carelessly or maliciously break, injure, destroy or in any way
disturb or interfere with any electric light, or telephone wire, or any
appurtenance thereto at any place within the limits of the Village shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable to a penalty of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-4-4: DAMAGING, TRESPASSING, PUTTING MATERIALS ON PROPERTY:
Any person who shall carelessly or maliciously break, deface, carry away, or in
any way injure or destroy any public lamp or lamppost, or street sign, or any
sign, gate, sidewalk or fence in the Village, or climb upon any public
lamppost, or hand or place any goods or merchandise thereon, or place any
goods, boxes, wood or any other heavy material upon or against the same shall
be liable to a penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-4-5: DAMAGING TREES AND SHRUBS:
No person shall cut down, destroy, break or in any way injure any tree or shrub
standing in any street or public place, except by permission of the Village
President, under a penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-4-6: USE OF PARKWAYS:
   A.   Parkways:
      1.   All parkways in the Village are restricted to grass lawns, access
driveways, cement sidewalks and trees.
      2.   Trees shall be at least four (4) feet from the curb on streets with
a fifty foot (50') right-of-way and at least seven feet (7') from the curb on
streets with a sixty-six foot (66') right-of-way.
      3.   No obstructions, ashes, dirt, garbage, crushed stone, black top,
broken cement or any other offensive matter shall be allowed in such parkways.
   B.   Front Yards In Residential Districts:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection B2 below, all areas within the
front yard set back required under the Village’s Zoning Ordinance in
Residential Districts are restricted to grass lawns or similar plant covering,
access driveways and cement sidewalks; trees, and bushes.
      2.   No obstructions, ashes, dirt, crushed stone, gravel, black top,
broken cement or any other offensive matter shall be allowed in any part of a
front yard. No stone or rock of any description shall be placed within the
front yard setback; except that a circle or line of artistic stone, which in
the case of a circle shall have a radius not in excess of two feet (2') and in
the case of a line shall be not more than one foot (1') in width, may be placed
around or in front of trees and bushes and adjacent to a sidewalk or access
driveway.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the terms of this section shall be fined
not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 93-6-2H, 6-2-1993)
7-4-7: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS GENERALLY:
   A.   The streets, avenues, alleys and sidewalks in the Village shall be kept
free and clear at all times of all encumbrances and encroachments for the use
of the public, except as may be herein or by ordinance or resolution of the
Village Board otherwise specially provided.
   B.   No person shall at any time congregate or assemble in or upon any of
the public streets, avenues, alleys or sidewalks of the Village in such manner
as to obstruct or interfere with the passage of persons along the streets or
sidewalks, or in such a manner as to disturb or threaten the public peace.
   C.   Any person in such assembly who fails or refuses, upon the order of any
public safety officer of the Village, to move on or away from such assembly
shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-4-8: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS BY SPORTS, GAMES, AMUSEMENTS OR EXHIBITIONS:
No person shall, by means of any sport, game, amusement or exhibition or by
exhortation or otherwise, induce or attempt to induce the congregation or
assembling of persons in or upon any of the public streets, avenues, alleys or
sidewalks of the Village whereby the passage of vehicles in and along such
streets or the passage of persons along such streets or sidewalks is obstructed
or interfered with or whereby the public peace is threatened or disturbed under
a penalty of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.0O) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-4-9: OBSTRUCTING STREETS BY RAILROAD COMPANIES:
   A.   No railroad company shall allow any car or train of cars in the Village
to block any crossing or stand on any crossing on any public street for a
longer time than five (5) minutes.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be liable to
a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-4-10: PLAYING ON RAILROAD PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall play upon or about any locomotive, engine, tender, car,
or train of cars, or any platform or step thereof, while the same or any or
either of them are in motion.
   B.   Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-4-11: BILLPOSTING AND NOTICES:
No person shall paste, post, print, paint, nail or otherwise fasten any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or other notice of any kind whatsoever,
or cause the same to be done, on any curbstone, flagstone, or other portion or
part of any sidewalk or street, or upon any tree, lamppost, utility pole,
hydrant, bridge, or pier, or upon any structure within the limits of any street
in the Village except such as may be required by this Code, or the ordinances
of the Village, or the laws of the State, or the government of the United
States.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
CHAPTER 5: GAMBLING AND GAMBLING DEVICES
Section
7-5-1:   Definitions
7-5-2:   Payment Of Federal Slot Machine Tax
7-5-3:   Payment Of Federal Wagering Tax
7-5-4:   Gambling Devices Prohibited
7-5-5:   Gambling Participation Prohibited
7-5-6:   Enforcement
7-5-7:   Revocation Of License; Hearing
7-5-8:   Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
LOTTERY: The numbers game, policy and similar types of wagering. The term does
not include:
   A.   Any game of a type in which usually:
      1.   The wagers are placed;
      2.   The winners are determined; and
      3.   The distribution of prizes or other property is made in the presence
of all persons placing wagers in such game.
   B.   In drawings conducted by an organization exempt from taxes under
section 101 of title 26 of the United States Code Annotated, if no part of the
net proceeds derived from drawings inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
SLOT MACHINE: A device which operates by means of the insertion of a coin,
token or similar object and which, by application of the element of chance, may
deliver, or entitle the person playing or operating the device to receive,
cash, premium, merchandise or tokens, including a coin-in-the-slot operated
mechanical pinball device played for amusement which rewards the player with
the right to replay such mechanical device.
WAGER:
   A.   Any wager with respect to a sports event or a contest placed with the
person engaged in the business of accepting such wagers;
   B.   Any wager placed in a wagering pool with respect to a sports event or a
contest, if such pool is conducted for profit; and
   C.   Any wager placed in a lottery conducted for profit.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-5-2: PAYMENT OF FEDERAL SLOT MACHINE TAX:
If any person pays a special tax pursuant to the provision of clause (2) of
subsection (a) of section 3267 of title 26 of the United States Code Annotated,
such payment shall be prima facie evidence that the person making such payment
is maintaining for use or permitting the use of a slot machine.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-5-3: PAYMENT OF FEDERAL WAGERING TAX:
If any person pays the excise tax pursuant to the provision of subsection (a)
of section 3285 of chapter 27A of title 26 of the United States Code Annotated,
such payment shall be prima facie evidence that the person making such payment
is in the business of accepting wagers or conducting a wagering pool or lottery
within the Village, provided such person registers with the person collecting
the excise tax, an address within the Village as the address of the place of
business where the activity takes place, which makes the person liable for the
payment of the excise tax.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-5-4: GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
No person shall own, operate, use, maintain for use or permit the use of a slot
machine or any table, wheel or device of any kind whatsoever, intended,
calculated or designed to be used for gaming or gambling or for playing any
game of chance. The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to
“qualified organizations” as that term is defined in the Illinois Charitable
Games Act provided that the qualified organization has been issued a Charitable
Games License by the Illinois Department of Revenue and provided further that
any activities conducted by or on behalf of the qualified organization which
would otherwise violate this section are conducted in compliance with the
Illinois Charitable Games Act. The prohibition contained in this section shall
also not apply to any person, firm or corporation which has been issued a
supplier’s license by the Illinois Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of the Illinois Charitable Games Act.
(Ord. 87-3-11D, 3-11-1987)
7-5-5: GAMBLING PARTICIPATION PROHIBITED:
No person shall play or engage in faro, roulette or gambling for money or other
valuable thing, or accept wagers, or to engage in or conduct a wagering pool or
a lottery. The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to
“qualified organizations” as that term is defined in the Illinois Charitable
Games Act provided that the qualified organization has been issued a Charitable
Games License by the Illinois Department of Revenue and provided further that
any activities conducted by or on behalf of the qualified organization which
would otherwise violate the prohibition contained in this section are conducted
in compliance with the Illinois Charitable Games Act.
(Ord. 87-3-11D, 3-11-1987)
7-5-6: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Safety to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. He shall report to the President at least once a
week and state in detail the work he has done during the preceding week to
cause this chapter to be strictly enforced and adhered to.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-5-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
   A.   Every person holding a license issued by the Village to conduct a
legitimate business shall have the same revoked by the President, after a
hearing held by him, if such licensee is convicted of violating any provision
of this chapter.
   B.   The licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to
be held not less than five (5) days after notice of the time and place of the
hearing, addressed to him at his last known place of business, has been mailed.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-5-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   B.   Each day a violation continues to exist or a person allows to be issued
to him any valid receipt, stamp or other evidence showing payment of the
special tax for the maintenance or use of a slot machine in the Village, or
each day he allows himself to be registered for the purpose of accepting wagers
or conducting a wagering pool or lottery in the Village shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
ARTICLE A: RAFFLES
Section
7-5A-1:   Definitions
7-5A-2:   License Required
7-5A-3:   Eligibility
7-5A-4:   Powers And Duties Of Raffles Commissioner
7-5A-5:   License Applications
7-5A-6:   Time To Act On Application
7-5A-7:   License Fees
7-5A-8:   Conduct Of Raffles
7-5A-9:   Raffles Manager; Bond
7-5A-10:   Restrictions On License Issuance
7-5A-11:   Retroactive License
7-5A-12:   Record Keeping
7-5A-13:   License Suspension And Revocation
7-5A-14:   Appeals
7-5A-15:   Gambling Not Authorized
7-5A-16:   Penalty
7-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated, unless the context clearly requires a different meaning:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civic
interests of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
CLASS A LICENSE: A license authorizing the operation of a raffle where the
aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise by a licensee in a single
raffle does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
CLASS B LICENSE: A license authorizing the operation of a raffle where the
aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise by a licensee in a single
raffle exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those who would otherwise be cared for by the
government.
HARDSHIP: A non-profit fundraising organization that has not been in existence
continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before making
application for a license that the Raffles Commissioner determines to be
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as a result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: means the gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and conducted
on a not-for-profit basis, with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a
result of the operation, that have been in existence continuously for a period
of at least five (5) years immediately prior to their making application for a
license, and which have had a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out
their objective during that time.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the Illinois
Criminal Code (750 ILCS 5/28-2), conducted by an organization licensed under
this article in which:
      1.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
      2.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RAFFLES COMMISSIONER: The Director of the Health and Licensing Department.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
ROSEMONT NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: A charitable, educational, religious,
veterans, labor, business or hardship nonprofit organization that: (i) has its
headquarters or principal office in the Village of Rosemont; or, (ii) that
primarily serves or benefits persons or organizations that reside within or are
located in the Village of Rosemont.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall conduct any raffle or sell any chances for
a raffle within the Village without first having obtained a license for the
particular raffle pursuant to this article.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-3: ELIGIBILITY:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide charitable, educational, religious,
fraternal, veterans, labor, business or hardship nonprofit organizations.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF RAFFLES COMMISSIONER:
The Raffles Commissioner is charged with the administration of this article,
and shall be assisted by the Department of Public Safety. The Raffles
Commissioner shall have the following powers, duties, functions and
responsibilities:
   A.   To grant, suspend or revoke all licenses issued;
   B.   To limit the aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise
awarded by a licensee in a single raffle;
   C.   To limit the maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee
in a single raffle;
   D.   To limit the maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold;
   E.   To limit the maximum number of days during which chances may be issued
or sold;
   F.   To receive or cause to be received all local license fees and pay them
immediately to the Finance Director; and
   G.   To receive complaints from any citizen of the Village that any
provision of this article has been or is being violated, and to act upon such
complaint in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-5: LICENSE APPLICATIONS:
The application for a raffles license shall be made on a form provided by the
Village and shall contain the following information.
   A.   The name and address of the nonprofit organization sponsoring the
raffle and submitting the application;
   B.   The type of organization and the number of years that the organization
has been in existence;
   C.   The number of years that the organization has been in existence;
   D.   The name of the president or chairperson of the organization;
   E.   The name of the raffle manager;
   F.   The geographic area(s) where raffle chances are to be sold or issued;
   G.   The cumulative retail value of the prizes to be offered at each raffle
and the maximum value of each prize to be offered at each raffle;
   H.   The maximum price to be charged for each raffle chance sold;
   I.   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued for
each raffle, but not more than one (1) year;
   J.   The date and the location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined for each raffle;
   K.   A sworn statement attesting to the nonprofit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by its presiding officer and
secretary, if any; and
   L.   In addition to the foregoing information, the applicant shall provide
such other and further information as the Raffles Commissioner may require, not
inconsistent with law.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-6: TIME TO ACT ON APPLICATION:
The Raffles Commissioner, or his designee, shall review all applications for
raffles licenses and shall, if such application is complete and in compliance
with the provisions of this article, issue said license within thirty (30) days
after the submission.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-7: LICENSE FEES:
The fee for each raffle license shall be as established in the Village Fee
Schedule set forth in Title 3, Chapter 10.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-8: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The conduct of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles within the Village
without first obtaining a license therefore pursuant to this article.
   B.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that raffle.
   C.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   D.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   E.   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from:
      1.   An organization which is also licensed under this chapter;
      2.   A nonprofit corporation or organization approved in the license; or
      3.   A commercial entity approved in the license, but only if no rent or
other charge is made or to be made for the renting of the premises above the
lowest rates that are being charged by the entity for use of the same space.
   F.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the geographic area
specified in the license, and winning chances may be determined only at those
locations specified in the license.
   G.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-9: RAFFLES MANAGER; BOND:
   A.   Supervision: The operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under
the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization.
   B.   Fidelity Bond: For Class A raffles, a fidelity bond may be issued by
responsible individual sureties, or by a responsible insurance company or
financial institution duly authorized to do business in Illinois. For Class B
raffles, a fidelity bond must be issued by a responsible insurance company or
financial institution duly authorized to do business in the State.
   C.   Amount Of Bond: Unless waived as provide in this article, the raffles
manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of the total value of the prizes
to be awarded in the raffle which shall be in effect from the commencement of
sales of chances within the Village until at least thirty (30) days after the
raffle is conducted.
   D.   Cancellation: Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be
given in writing to the Village Finance Director not less than thirty (30) days
prior to its cancellation.
   E.   Waiver Of Fidelity Bond Requirement: A waiver of this bond requirement
may be included in the license issued to any organization under this article as
follows, if requested by a unanimous vote of the members of the licensed
organization:
      1.   This bond requirement may be waived by the Village President for any
Village nonprofit organization.
      2.   This bond requirement may be waived by the Village Board of Trustees
for any licensee.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-10: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE ISSUANCE:
No raffle license shall be issued to:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   D.   Any organization in which a person described in subsections A, B, or C
has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest;
   E.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A, B or C is
an officer or director, whether compensated or not;
   F.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A, B or C is
to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as defined in this
article; or
   G.   Any organization which has in the previous three (3) years had a raffle
license revoked by any governmental unit.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-11: RETROACTIVE LICENSE:
An otherwise qualified Village nonprofit organization that conducts a raffle in
the Village, without first obtaining a license therefore as required under this
article, may obtain a retroactive license authorizing the raffle by:
   A.   Submitting a complete license application to the Raffles Commissioner
in accordance with section
7-5A-5;
   B.   Submitting the reports required under section
7-5A-12; and
   C.   Paying a one hundred dollars ($100.00) retroactive license application
fee.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-12: RECORD KEEPING:
A.   The Raffles Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record
of all licenses issued under this article, and shall forward a copy to the
Department of Public Safety.
   B.   Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle under this article shall
keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts shall be documented with receipts or other records
indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other
reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds
shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   C.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross-
receipts if licensed bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall keep
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who is responsible for accounting for other revenues of the
organization.
   D.   Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle under this article
shall, within sixty (60) days after the conclusion of the raffle, report its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the raffle, and the distribution
of net proceeds from the raffle, itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date
of payment, to its membership and to the Raffles Commissioner.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-13: LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   The Raffles Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued under
this article if he determines that:
      1.   The application contained a false, fraudulent or materially
misleading statement; or
      2.   The licensee, or any officer or director of licensee, has violated
any provision of this article or of law.
   B.   No such license shall be revoked or suspended except after a hearing by
the Raffles Commissioner or his designee with a three (3) day written notice to
the licensee affording an opportunity to appear, hear the violations found by
the Village and present reasons why the license should not be revoked or
suspended.
   C.   Within five (5) days after such hearing, if the raffles commissioner or
his designee determines that the license should be revoked or suspended, the
licensee shall be served with a written order of revocation or suspension
stating the reason or reasons for such determination.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-14: APPEALS:
   A.   Any decision of the Raffles Commissioner or his designee to revoke or
suspend a raffles licensee under this article may be appealed in writing to the
Village President within ten (10) days from the date of the decision. The
written appeal shall set forth the decision of the Raffles Commissioner and a
brief statement of the basis for the appeal. Any portion of the Raffles
Commissioner’s decision on a license may be appealed.
   B.   Except as provided in section 7-5A-9, waiver of bond shall only be
granted by the Village Board of Trustees upon the organization’s written
request.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-15: GAMBLING NOT AUTHORIZED:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize conducting or operating
any gambling or gaming scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for herein.
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
7-5A-16: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this article shall
be subject to a fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) and not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 2012-8-8H, 8-8-2012)
CHAPTER 6: PINBALL, BAGATELLE AND PIGEONHOLE GAMES
Section
7-6-1:   Definitions
7-6-2:   Games Prohibited
7-6-3:   Confiscation Of Tables And Devices
7-6-4:   Penalty
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PINBALL, BAGATELLE OR PIGEONHOLE: A game played with any number of balls or
spheres upon a table or board having holes, pockets, or cups into which such
balls or spheres may drop or become lodged and having arches, pins, and
springs, or any of them, to control, deflect, or impede the direction or speed
of the balls or spheres put in motion by the player, and shall include the
modern variety of bagatelle or pigeonhole, commonly known as “pinball games”.
PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT: Any premises wherein any service or merchandise is
offered for sale to the public or where tables or implements for playing the
game of bagatelle or pigeonhole are kept for gain or profit, or any premises
used as a clubhouse or clubrooms.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-6-2: GAMES PROHIBITED:
No person shall keep or use in any place of public resort within the Village
any tables or implements for any game of pinball, bagatelle or pigeonhole.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-6-3: CONFISCATION OF TABLES AND DEVICES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every public safety officer to seize any table
or implement kept or used in violation of this chapter and, upon conviction of
the keeper thereof, such table or implement so seized shall be destroyed.
   B.   Any person obstructing or resisting any public safety officer in the
performance of any act authorized by this section shall be fined as provided in
section 7-6-4 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-6-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   B.   Each day that the violation continues shall be regarded as constituting
a distinct and separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
CHAPTER 7: NUISANCES
Section
7-7-1:   Burying Dead Animals
7-7-2:   Offensive Premises
7-7-3:   Dumping Of Garbage
7-7-4:   Offensive Businesses
7-7-5:   Excavations
7-7-6:   Abatement Of Nuisances Generally
7-7-1: BURYING DEAD ANIMALS:
When any dead animal shall be found on any lot or part of a lot in the Village,
it shall be the duty of the person owning or occupying such lot or part of such
lot to cause the animal to be removed and buried at least four feet (4') deep;
and the owner or occupant of the lot or part of the lot, or any other person
removing the animal, may collect the expense of removal from the person owning
or depositing the dead animal, and if any owner or occupant of any lot or part
of a lot shall fail or neglect to remove the dead animal, he shall forfeit and
pay not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for every such offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-7-2: OFFENSIVE PREMISES:
If any person shall own, occupy or keep any grounds or other premises in such
condition as to be offensive to the public health of the neighborhood, he shall
be deemed guilty of a nuisance and be subject to a fine of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and
to a like fine every day such nuisance shall continue after the first
conviction.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-7-3: DUMPING OF GARBAGE:
   A.   As used in this section:
ASHES: The residue from burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: Any garbage, refuse, rubbish, handbills and all other waste material.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or organization
of any kind.
REFUSE: All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish and ashes.
RUBBISH: Non-putrescible solid wastes excluding ashes consisting of both
combustible and non-combustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   B.   No person shall dump or place any garbage, ashes, litter, refuse or
rubbish which shall have originated outside the corporate limits of the Village
upon real property located within the corporate limits of the Village.
   C.   No person shall dump, deposit or place any garbage, ashes, litter,
refuse, or rubbish upon real property owned by another without the consent of
the owner or person in possession of such real property.
   D.   Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance,
and upon conviction, shall forfeit and pay not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 77-3-30A, 3-3-1977)
7-7-4: OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES:
   A.   No person shall carry on the business of stilling, or of rendering
lard, tallow, offal, dead animals or other substances of a like nature, or
manufacturing glue or bone dust within the limits of or within a distance of
two (2) miles of the limits of the Village.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a nuisance and, on conviction, shall forfeit and pay not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-7-5: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health,
peace and comfort of the Village for any person, including a private
corporation, Municipal corporation or governmental subdivision, to excavate,
dig, or otherwise cause to be removed dirt, rock, sand, debris or other
substance so as to cause a hole or depression in the surface of the earth
within the corporate limits of the Village, except in connection with the
construction of a building, structure, or other improvement pursuant to a
permit granted by the Village.
   B.   Any excavation performed pursuant to such permit must be fenced or
barricaded in such a manner as to prevent any danger as may exist to persons
coming on the land where the excavations are located.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day the offense shall
continue.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-7-6: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES GENERALLY:
In all cases where no provision has heretofore been made in any ordinance
heretofore adopted and now in effect in the Village defining what are
nuisances, and how the nuisances may be removed, vacated or prevented, in
addition to whatever may be declared therein as a nuisance, those offenses
which are known to the common law of the land and the Statutes of Illinois as
nuisances may, in case the nuisance exists within the limits of the Village or
within one mile thereof, be treated as such and proceeded against by the
Village in accordance with the provisions of this Code and/or in accordance
with the provisions of the Statutes of the State of Illinois providing for the
abatement of nuisances.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
CHAPTER 8: JUVENILE RELATED OFFENSES
Section
7-8-1:   Curfew
7-8-2:   Parental Responsibility For Offenses Committed By Unemancipated Minors
7-8-3:   Weapons; Delivery To And Possession By Minors
7-8-4:   Truancy
7-8-5:   Encouraging Delinquency
7-8-6:   False Identification
7-8-7:   Allowing Unlawful Use Of Motor Vehicles By Unlicensed Minor
7-8-8:   Prosecution of Violations
Cross-reference:
   See
title 6, chapter 6  of this Code for additional regulations regarding minors
7-8-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words shall be
defined as follows:
BODILY INJURY: Injury that harms or creates a substantial risk of harm to one’s
person or that causes death, disfigurement, loss or impairment of the function
of any bodily member or organ.
CURFEW HOURS: Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any day until five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. of the following day.
CUSTODIAN: A person who has attained the age of eighteen (18) years and who is
authorized by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstance or combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for such immediate action as is necessary to protect
a person from imminent threat of bodily injury, loss of life or property from
substantial damage. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, natural
disaster, automobile accident, medical emergency, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent bodily injury, loss of life or loss of property.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any restaurant,
retail establishment, place of amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A person who, by court order, is designated guardian of the person of
a minor; or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of a
minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including but not limited to streets, highways, public ways
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, shops, parks, places of entertainment or amusement,
arenas, stadiums, and restaurants.
REMAIN: To linger or stay; or fail to leave the premises of an establishment
when requested to do so by a public safety officer or the owner, operator, or
other person in control of the establishment.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for:
         a.   A minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any
establishment within the Village during curfew hours;
         b.   A parent, guardian or custodian to knowingly permit, or by
insufficient control allow a minor to remain in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the Village during curfew hours; or
         c.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment to
knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours.
      2.   Defenses:
         a.   It shall be a defense to prosecution under subsection B1 in this
section that the minor was:
            (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian or custodian;
            (2)   On or returning from an errand at the direction of the
minor’s parent, guardian, or custodian without any unnecessary detour or stop;
            (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
            (4)   Engaged in an employment activity in which such minor may
lawfully engage under the laws of the State of Illinois, or traveling to or
returning home from the employment activity, without any unnecessary detour or
stop;
            (5)   Involved in an emergency;
            (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence, that of a
guardian or custodian, or abutting the residence of a next-door neighbor if the
neighbor does not object to the minor’s presence;
            (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the Village, a
school, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by the Village, a school, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
            (8)   Exercising rights protected by the First Amendment to the
United States Constitution or Article 1, Section 3, 4 and 5 of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois, or both, such as the free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech, and the right of assembly; or
            (9)   Married or previously married or has been declared an
emancipated minor in accordance with the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
         b.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B1 that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Public
Safety Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and the minor refused when first requested to leave the
premises.
   C.   Enforcement: Prior to taking any enforcement action under this
subsection, a public safety officer shall inquire as to the apparent offender’s
age and reason for being in the public place. No citation shall be issued and
no arrest shall be made under this section unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that based on any response of the
minor and all other circumstances known to the officer at the time, no defense
as set forth in subsection B2 exists.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates a provision of this section shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense.
(Ord. 2004-4-7N, 4-7-2004)
7-8-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR OFFENSES COMMITTED BY UNEMANCIPATED MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation of this section:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
court, but does not include a person appointed guardian or given custody of a
minor under the Juvenile Court Act, being 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq., as amended,
in the State of Illinois.
MINOR: Any person above the age of eleven (11) but not yet eighteen (18) years
of age who has not been determined by a court or other proper authority to be
emancipated.
   B.   Exercise Of Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for the
parent or legal guardian of a minor residing with such parent or legal guardian
to fail to exercise proper parental responsibility by allowing, knowingly
failing to supervise, or knowingly permitting such minor to commit any
violation of a Village ordinance or State statute concerning or relating to
battery, assault, curfew, disorderly conduct, use or possession of fireworks,
indecent exposure, intimidation, possession or use of spray paint or permanent
markers, obscene conduct, vandalism, trespass, truancy, loitering, possession,
consumption or use of alcoholic beverages, consumption or use of cannabis,
consumption or use of controlled substances, possession or use of firearms or
any other kind of weapon, or any offense involving the willful or malicious
destruction of property.
   C.   Violation: A parent or legal guardian of a minor shall be deemed to
have violated this section if:
      1.   The minor has been either adjudicated to have violated any Village
ordinance or State statute as described in subsection B of this section; or has
incurred nonjudicial sanctions from any peace officer, police officer, or
conservator of the peace resulting from an admission by, or on behalf of the
minor, that the minor committed a violation of an ordinance or state statute as
described in subsection B; and
      2.   The parent or legal guardian has received a written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service in
substantially the following form:
      LEGAL NOTICE
      To:    (Parents’/Legal Guardians’ Names)
      From:    The Rosemont Public Safety Department
You are hereby notified that (minor’s name) has been involved in the commission
of (specify offense and date of offense), which is a violation of a State
statute or Village ordinance. If your minor child is found to have committed,
or admits to committing, another violation of a state statute or Village
ordinance concerning or relating to battery, assault, curfew, disorderly
conduct, use or possession of fireworks, indecent exposure, intimidation,
possession or use of spray paint or permanent markers, obscene conduct,
vandalism, trespass, truancy, loitering, possession, consumption or use of
alcoholic beverages, cannabis or controlled substances, possession or use of
firearms or any other kind of weapon, or any offense involving the willful or
malicious destruction of property within the next two (2) years, you will be
charged with a violation of section 7-8-2 of the Municipal Code of the Village
which imposes responsibility on parents and legal guardians for illegal acts of
minor children. Conviction for said offense can result in a fine of between
seventy five dollars ($75.00) and seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). You
are hereby notified that you must exercise proper parental responsibility over
the minor by controlling his unlawful conduct.
      3.   If the minor identified in an notice sent pursuant to subsection C2
is found to have committed or admits to committing a violation of any ordinance
or state statute as described in subsection B within two (2) years after the
minor’s parent or legal guardian receives the notice sent pursuant to
subsection C2, the parent shall be deemed to have committed a violation of
subsection B.
   D.   Notice Of Child Arrest: Whenever a minor shall be arrested or detained
for the commission of any criminal act within the Village the Public Safety
Department shall immediately notify the parent of such minor and advise the
parent of such arrest or detention, the reason therefore and his responsibility
under this section. A record of such notification shall be kept by the Public
Safety Department.
   E.   Appearance In Court: The parent or legal guardian of a minor charged
with a violation of a Village ordinance or a State statute which requires that
minor’s appearance in court or at an administrative hearing is required to
accompany the minor to court or the administrative hearing. A notice in
substantially the following form shall be sent to the parents or legal
guardians of a minor who is required to appear in court or at an administrative
hearing because the minor has been charged with violating a Village ordinance
or a State statute:
      LEGAL NOTICE
      To:      (Parents’/Legal Guardians’ Names)
      From:    The Rosemont Public Safety Department
You are hereby notified that your child or a child for whom you are the legal
guardian, (insert minor’s name), has been charged with an offense which is a
violation of a Village ordinance or a State statute, and which requires the
appearance of your child in court or at an administrative adjudication hearing.
You are further notified that one of the parents or legal guardians of said
child must appear in court or at the administrative adjudication hearing before
the matter will be tried or be disposed. If you fail to appear, the Village
Prosecutor has been directed to have a subpoena issued to require your presence
in court or at the administrative adjudication hearing. Failure to obey a
subpoena can result in contempt of court, with a fine or imprisonment as the
penalty.
   F.   Penalty: Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of
this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense,
and in addition may be sentenced to probation or conditional discharge with the
conditions being that the parent or legal guardian make restitution or
reparation in any amount not to exceed actual the loss or damage to property or
pecuniary loss arising from the violation of a Village ordinance or State
statute. The court or the administrative hearing officer shall determine the
amount and conditions of payment. Where the conditions have not been satisfied
or payment has not been made, the court or administrative hearing officer may,
at any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period of probation
or of conditional discharge, impose an additional fine. The Village Prosecutor,
at his discretion, shall seek to nonsuit and ask for dismissal of the charge
upon satisfactory termination of the conditions of the conditional discharge
set forth by the trial judge or administrative hearing officer. In addition to
and in lieu of penalties set forth above, a period of community service not to
exceed one hundred sixty (160) hours may be imposed on a person who violates a
provision of this section. Community service may consist of one or more of the
following:
      1.   Providing manual labor for a school district, a park district or the
Village;
      2.   Completing a project involving the minor who committed a violation
of a Village ordinance or State statute as described in subsection B determined
by the court or the administrative adjudication hearing officer that is
intended to result in a positive behavioral change in the minor; and/or
      3.   Participating in training intended to result in the parent or legal
guardian becoming a more responsible and effective parent.
   G.   Injuries To Persons And Damage To Property:
      1.   Liability Of Parent: The parent or legal guardian of a minor who
resides with such parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the
willful or malicious acts of such minor, which cause injury to a person or
damage to property and result from the minor committing a violation of a
Village ordinance concerning or relating to battery, assault, curfew,
disorderly conduct, use or possession of fireworks, indecent exposure,
intimidation, possession or use of spray paint or permanent markers, obscene
conduct, vandalism, trespass, truancy, loitering, possession, consumption or
use of alcoholic beverages, consumption or use of cannabis, consumption or use
of controlled substances, possession or use of firearms or any other kind of
weapon, or any offense involving the willful or malicious destruction of
property.
      2.   Recovery Of Damage Costs; Limit: Recovery of damages under this
section shall include actual damages, court costs and/or and attorneys fees. In
no event shall the amount recoverable under this section exceed the sum of two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      3.   Judgments; Applicability of Other Laws: Section 12-107 of the
Illinois Code of Civil Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/12-107, as amended, is not
applicable to judgments obtained under this section.
      4.   Common Law Damages: Nothing in this subsection G shall affect the
recovery of damages in any other cause of action where the liability of the
parent or legal guardian is predicated on a common law basis.
(Ord. 2006-7-12, 7-12-2006)
7-8-3: WEAPONS; DELIVERY TO AND POSSESSION BY MINORS:
   A.   Unlawful Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years to be in possession of any of the following items:
      1.   Bowie, switchblade, ballistic knives, throwing stars or other edged
weapons as defined in section 5/24-1(1) of the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS
5/24-1(1);
      2.   Metallic knuckles or nunchakus;
      3.   Slingshots;
      4.   Arrows designed for firing from a bow or crossbow device, except
when such person is engaged in lawful hunting, supervised target shooting or
the otherwise legal transportation of such device;
      5.   Stun gun or taser;
      6.   Any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or intended for
use in silencing the report of a firearm;
      7.   Machine gun, as defined by section 5/24-1(7) of the Illinois
Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/24-1(7);
      8.   Any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing
an explosive substance of over one-quarter (1/4) ounce for like purposes, such
as, but not limited to, black powder bombs, Molotov cocktails, pipe bombs or
artillery projectiles;
      9.   Firearms, or the ammunition therefor, as defined by section 65/1.1
of the Illinois Firearm Owners Identification Card Act, 430 ILCS 65/1.1, except
when such person is engaged in lawful hunting, supervised target shooting, or
otherwise legal transportation of such device; or
      10.   Fireworks, as defined by section 30/2 of the Fireworks Regulation
Act of Illinois, 425 ILCS 30/2.
   B.   Delivery To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver,
sell, give or offer to any person, under the age of eighteen (18) years, any of
the items listed in subsection A.
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each and every offense.
(Ord. 2006-7-12, 7-12-2006)
7-8-4: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
words and their derivations shall have the following meanings:
CRIMINAL ACTS: The intentional commission of an act or acts, which violate the
statutes of the State of Illinois or the ordinances of the Village.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: Any foster parent, or any person appointed guardian or
otherwise awarded custody of a minor by an Illinois court having jurisdiction
over the matter, or any person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor
under the Illinois Juvenile Court Act, 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq., but shall not
include any person appointed guardian only of the estate of a minor.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
PARENT: The father or mother of an unemancipated minor child, whether by birth
or adoption. The word PARENT as used in this section shall also be deemed to
mean legal guardian. In the event that the minor’s parents are divorced or
separated within the meaning of the Illinois Marriage and Dissolution of
Marriage Act, 750 ILCS 5/101 et seq,, the parent having lawful physical custody
of the minor shall be deemed to be the parent authorized to give consent as
required by this section.
VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE: Means illness, observance of a religious holiday,
death in the immediate family, family emergency and other situations beyond the
control of the minor as determined by the board of education in a given school
district, or such other circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the
parent for the health or safety of the minor.
   B.   Truancy Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a minor who is enrolled in
a public, private or parochial school to absent himself from attendance at
school during such period when school is in session, without the permission of
his parent or legal guardian for absences for “valid cause” as defined in
subsection A5 or by the school in which the minor is enrolled. Any person who
shall so absent himself from school attendance without valid cause or parental
permission, as provided herein, shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and,
upon conviction, shall be subject to the penalties hereinafter set forth in
this section. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes
beyond the control of the person so absenting himself from school without
parental permission shall not constitute truancy if permission for such absence
has substantially been obtained from the parent or legal guardian and such
permission is submitted in writing to the proper school authorities within
twenty-four (24) hours after such absence.
   C.   Penalty: Any minor who shall absent himself from school attendance
without valid cause or parental permission as provided herein shall be guilty
of the offense of truancy and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of
not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that such person shall absent
himself from school attendance shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-7-12, 7-12-2006)
7-8-5: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Encouraging Delinquency Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
by any act or willful omission, to encourage, aid or cause a child to violate a
Village ordinance or State statute concerning or relating to battery, assault,
curfew, disorderly conduct, use or possession of fireworks, indecent exposure,
intimidation, possession or use of spray paint or permanent markers, obscene
conduct, vandalism, trespass, truancy, loitering, possession, consumption or
use of alcoholic beverages, consumption or use of cannabis, consumption or use
of controlled substances, possession or use of firearms or any other kind of
weapon, or any offense involving the willful or malicious destruction of
property.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate section 7-8-5A shall have
committed the offense of encouraging delinquency by a minor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense.
(Ord. 2006-7-12, 7-12-2006)
7-8-6: FALSE IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Using False Identification Prohibited: Any underage person found guilty
of attempting to obtain delivery of an alcoholic beverage or tobacco product by
use of a false proof of age, shall be subject to a mandatory fine of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and/or a period of community service. If the
false proof of age was an improperly used driver's license, a report shall be
filed with the Illinois Secretary of State.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate subsection A shall have committed
the offense of use of false identification by a minor and, upon conviction,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each separate
incident where false identification is used by a shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2006-7-12, 7-12-2006)
7-8-7: ALLOWING UNLAWFUL USE OF MOTOR VEHICLE BY UNLICENSED MINOR:
   A.   Allowing Use Of Motor Vehicle By Unlicensed Minor Or Minor Whose
License Has Been Suspended Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, to
knowingly allow a minor who does not have a required license to operate the
motor vehicle or whose operator’s license has been suspended or revoked, to
permit such minor to operate a motor vehicle.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate subsection A shall have committed
the offense of allowing the unlawful use of a motor vehicle by a minor and,
upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. Each separate occurrence where an unlicensed minor or a minor whose
operator’s license has been suspended operates a motor vehicle shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-7-12, 7-12-2006)
7-8-8: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS:
Violations of the provisions of this chapter are subject to prosecution under
the Village’s administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to
Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A as now or hereafter amended. The provisions of
this section shall not preclude the Village from using other methods or
proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this chapter, including,
without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit Court of Cook
County, or before another administrative tribunal which has jurisdiction to
consider the violation.
(Ord. 2006-7-12, 7-12-2006)
CHAPTER 9: STATE OF EMERGENCY
Section
7-9-1:   Definition
7-9-2:   Declaration Of Emergency
7-9-3:   Filing Declaration; Notice To Public
7-9-4:   Emergency Measures
7-9-5:   Duration Of State Of Emergency
7-9-6:   Coexisting Powers In Effect
7-9-7:   Local State Of Emergency
7-9-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the term ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS shall mean an “alcoholic
liquor” as that term is defined by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3.05, as
amended.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017; amd. 2019 Code)
7-9-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever the Village President determines that there has been an act of
violence or a flagrant and substantial defiance of, or resistance to, a lawful
exercise of public authority, any natural disaster or manmade calamity,
including flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion
within the corporate limits of the Village, resulting in the death or injury of
persons or the destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary
measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and
that, partly on account thereof, there is reason to believe that there exists a
clear and present danger of a riot or other general public disorder, widespread
disobedience of the law and for substantial injury to persons or to property,
all of which constitute a threat to public peace or order and to the general
welfare of the Village or a part or parts thereof, he may declare that a state
of emergency exists within the Village or any part or parts thereof.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-9-3: FILING DECLARATION; NOTICE TO PUBLIC:
Any state of emergency or emergency measure declared or ordered and promulgated
by virtue of the provisions of this chapter shall, as promptly as practicable,
be filed with the Village Clerk and shall also be delivered to appropriate news
media for publication and radio and television broadcast thereby. If
practicable, such state of emergency declaration or emergency measure shall
also be publicized by other appropriate means such as by posting and
loudspeakers.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-9-4: EMERGENCY MEASURES:
   A.   Whenever the President, pursuant to section
7-9-2 of this chapter, determines that a state of emergency exists, he shall
first sign, under oath, a statement in writing finding that the standards set
forth in section
7-9-2 of this chapter have been met, and shall set forth facts in said
statement to substantiate such findings. The statement shall also describe the
emergency and shall declare that a state of emergency exists. After the signing
of the aforesaid statement, the following measures shall, where applicable, be
in effect:
      1.   The emergency measures provided in subsection A2 of this section
shall thereupon be in effect during the period of the emergency and throughout
the Village; and
      2.   The President may order and promulgate all or any of the emergency
measures provided in subsection B of this section, in whole or in part, and
with such limitations and conditions as he may deem appropriate, and any such
emergency measure so ordered and promulgated shall thereupon be in effect
during the period of the emergency and in the area or areas for which the
emergency has been declared.
   B.   The emergency measures may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   The sale or other transfer of possession, with or without
consideration, offer to sell or so transfer, and the purchase of any
ammunition, guns and other firearms of any size or description, is prohibited.
      2.   The displaying by or in any store or shop of any ammunition, guns
and other firearms of any size or description, is prohibited.
      3.   The possession in a public place of a rifle or shotgun by any
person, except a duly authorized law enforcement official or person in military
service acting in the official performance of his duty, is prohibited.
      4.   The possession of any rifle or shotgun in any place, public or
private, by a nonresident who has not been issued a permit for the purchase and
possession of rifles and shotguns, is prohibited.
      5.   The establishment of curfews including, but not limited to, the
prohibition of or restrictions on pedestrian and vehicular movement, standing
and parking, except for the provision of designated essential services such as
fire, police and hospital services, including the transportation of patients
thereto, utility emergency repairs and emergency calls by physicians.
      6.   The prohibition of the sale of any alcoholic liquor.
      7.   The prohibition of the possession on the person in a public place of
any portable container containing any alcoholic liquor.
      8.   The closing of places of public assembly with designated exceptions.
      9.   The prohibition of the sale or other transfer of possession, with or
without consideration, of gasoline or any other flammable or combustible liquid
altogether or except by delivery into a tank properly affixed to an operable
motor driven vehicle, bike, scooter, boat or airplane and necessary for the
propulsion thereof.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-9-5: DURATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY:
A state of emergency established under this chapter shall commence upon
declaration thereof by the Village President and shall terminate not later than
the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the Corporate Authorities after
the state of emergency is declared. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as limiting the power of the Corporate Authorities to declare by
ordinance a curfew throughout all or any part of the Village or adopt such
emergency measures as may be required.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-9-6: COEXISTING POWERS IN EFFECT:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this Code or ordinances of the Village giving powers to the
Department of Public Safety, but shall be construed together with existing
ordinances now in effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the
Village.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
7-9-7: LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing
or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises
within the corporate limits of the Village except officials of any governmental
unit, public safety personnel, and persons officially designated with duties in
reference to any such emergency.
EMERGENCY. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force
or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law; or
any natural disaster, epidemic, disease pandemic or manmade calamity, including
outbreak of disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or
explosion, or eminent threat of any of those events within the corporate limits
of the Village, resulting in or threatening the death, injury or illness of
persons or the destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary
measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Declaration: Whenever an emergency, as defined in subsection A exists,
the Village President is authorized to declare the existence of a local state
of emergency by means of a written declaration of the Village President, under
oath, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the
nature of the emergency and declaring that a local state of emergency exists in
accordance with the definitions set forth in this section. This declaration
must be filed with the Village Clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
   C.   Curfew Authorized: After proclamation of a local state of emergency by
the Village President, he may order a general curfew applicable to such
geographical areas of the Village or to the Village as a whole, as he deems
reasonable and advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night
as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
   D.   Orders Authorized: After the proclamation of a local state of
emergency, the Village President may also, in the interest of public safety and
welfare, and to address this issues caused threatened by the emergency, make
take any or all of the following actions by executive order during the state of
emergency:
      1.   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
      2.   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the Village;
      3.   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Village President shall
be authorized to approve new spending by the Village during the existence of
the local state of emergency;
      4.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
      5.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
      6.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      7.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
      8.   Order the closing any buildings or groups of commercial and retail
buildings; or
      9.   Order that persons shelter in place at such locations and for such
times as necessary to protect the public health and safety.
   E.   Duration: The proclamation of a local state of emergency herein
authorized shall be effective for a period of up to thirty (30) days or until
the adjournment of the next regular, special, or emergency meeting of the
Village’s Board of Trustees, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by
a proclamation of the Village President, or his interim emergency successor,
indicating that the emergency no longer exists. The Village President or his
interim emergency successor, shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence
of an emergency at the end of each thirty (30) day period during the time said
emergency exists.
   F.   Notice: Upon issuing the proclamation of a local state of emergency
herein authorized, the Village Clerk shall notify the news media situated
within the Village, and shall cause at copies of the proclamation declaring the
existence of the emergency and any curfew to be posted at the Village’s
municipal building at a location where it is continuously viewable; on the
Village’s website; within any portion of the Village, which is the subject of
any curfew; and at such other locations as may be deemed appropriate given the
nature and scope of the proclamation.
   G.   Violations: Any person violating the provisions of this section or
executive orders issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against
the Village and shall be subject to arrest and criminally charged and upon
adjudication by a court of lawful jurisdiction subject to imprisonment for a
period not greater than six (6) months; and/or a civil fine not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per day for each day the offense has continued.
   H.   Effect On Other Ordinances: Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to impair the powers contained in any of the Village’s ordinances or
codes giving powers to the Village’s Public Safety Department, but shall be
construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Village.
(Ord. 2020-3-21, 3-21-2020)
CHAPTER 10: DRUGS
ARTICLE A: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS
Section
7-10A-1:   Cannabis Defined
7-10A-2:   Violation
7-10A-3:   Penalty
7-10A-1: CANNABIS DEFINED:
All terms and phrases used in this article including, but not limited to, the
meaning of "cannabis", shall have the same definitions and meaning as provided
in the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1, et seq., as amended, which is
adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 93-5-5H, 5-5-1993; amd. Ord. 2021-4-12C, 4-12-2021)
7-10A-2: VIOLATION:
A person commits the offense of possession of cannabis by possessing, using,
consuming, smoking, cultivating, growing, purchasing, obtaining, selling,
delivering, or transporting cannabis, except as otherwise allowed, authorized,
or permitted by State law including, but not limited to, the Cannabis Control
Act, 720 ILCS 550/1, et seq., Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1,
et seq., Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1, et
seq., and Industrial Hemp Act, 505 ILCS 89/1, et seq., as amended and their
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, which are adopted and
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 93-5-5H, 5-5-1993; amd. Ord. 2021-4-12C, 4-12-2021)
7-10A-3: PENALTY:
Any person who is found liable of violating this article shall be subject to a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Violations of this article
shall be subject to prosecution under the Village's administrative adjudication
hearing system. For any person under twenty-one (21) years of age who is found
liable of violating this article, the Village's hearing officer may, in lieu of
the penalty provided herein, order said person to perform community service or
refer said person to a suitable drug education, counseling, or rehabilitation
program.
(Ord. 93-5-5H, 5-5-1993; amd. Ord. 2021-4-12C, 4-12-2021)
ARTICLE B: SALE, DELIVERY OR POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
Section
7-10B-1:   Definitions
7-10B-2:   Sale, Delivery To Or Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia; Penalty;
Public Nuisance
7-10B-3:   Exceptions; Determination
7-10B-4:   Seizure And Forfeiture
7-10B-5:   Prosecution Of Violations
7-10B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation of this article
unless the context requires otherwise:
CANNABIS: Meaning ascribed to it in section 3 of the Illinois Cannabis Control
Act (720 ILCS 550/3), as if that definition were incorporated herein.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Meaning ascribed to it in section 102 of the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/102), as if that definition were
incorporated herein.
DELIVER or DELIVERY: The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of
possession with or without consideration whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other
than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in section 10 of the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act (720 ILCS 646/10), and
cannabis paraphernalia as defined in section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-100), which are intended to be used unlawfully in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act or the Methamphetamine
Control and Community Protection Act, or a synthetic drug or misbranded drug in
violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (410 ILCS 620/1 et seq.).
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing a controlled substance;
      2.   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing
the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      3.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home
for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      4.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting
a controlled substance by private persons;
      5.   Objects primarily to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cocaine or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in
violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, into the human body
including, where applicable, the following items:
         a.   Water pipes;
         b.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         c.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         d.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         e.   Carburetor pipes;
         f.   Electric pipes;
         g.   Air-driven pipes;
         h.   Chillums;
         i.   Bongs; and
         j.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      6.   Any item whose purpose as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this article.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 8-12-2020)
7-10B-2: SALE, DELIVERY TO OR POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA; PENALTY; PUBLIC
NUISANCE:
   A.   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess an item
of drug paraphernalia with    the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing a controlled substance into the human body, or in
preparing a controlled substance for that use. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to persons legally authorized to possess hypodermic
syringes or needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act (720 ILCS
635/001 et seq.)
      2.   In determining intent under this subsection, the court,
administrative hearing officer, or trier of fact, may take into consideration
the proximity of the controlled substances to drug paraphernalia or the
presence of a controlled substance on or in the drug paraphernalia.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, sell or deliver
for any commercial consideration any item off drug paraphernalia.
   C.   1.   Any store, place, or premises from which or in which any item of
drug paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold, or delivered for
any commercial considerate is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
      2.   The Village Attorney or Village Prosecutor, upon direction from the
Village President, may commerce an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County
to abate the public nuisance a described herein.
   D.   Any person who shall violate this section, shall be subject to a fine
of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each separate occurrence
where an individual is in possession of, sells, or delivers an item which
constitutes drug paraphernalia in violation of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 8-12-2020)
7-10B-3: EXCEPTIONS; DETERMINATION:
   A.   Section
7-10B-2 shall not apply to:
      1.   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging, labeling, or
other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to lawful
research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale.
      2.   Items historically and customarily used in the connection with the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, preparing, testing, and analyzing.
Packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, or inhaling
of cannabis, tobacco, or any other lawful substance.
      3.   Items listed in subsection 5 of the definition of DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
listed in section
7-10B-1  which are used for decorative purposes, when such items have been
rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for any illicit
purpose prohibited by this article.
   B.   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or
needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act.
   C.   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
section, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following:
      1.   The general, usual, customary and historical use to which the item
involved has been out;
      2.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the item
and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the device
upon its functioning;
      3.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the delivery of the item concerning the purposes of uses to which
the item can or may be put;
      4.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the time
and place of sale or commercial delivery;
      5.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose or
use of the item involved and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
      6.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was displayed
for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or otherwise
exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
      7.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier or like or related items to the community such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of cannabis or tobacco products; and
      8.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
   D.   All reasonable and common-sense influences shall be drawn in favor of
the legitimacy of any transaction or item suspect under the provisions of this
article.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 8-12-2020)
7-10B-4: SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE:
All drug paraphernalia is subject to forfeiture. Any drug paraphernalia that is
the subject of a violation of section
7-10B-2 shall be subject to seizure and subject to forfeiture upon a finding of
guilty of any person for a violation of section
7-10B-2 of this article. Upon appropriate order of court or administrative
hearing officer, said drug paraphernalia shall be destroyed.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 8-12-2020)
7-10B-5: PERSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS:
Violations of the provisions of this article are subject to prosecution under
the Village’s administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to
Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A, as now or hereafter amended. The provisions of
this section shall not preclude the Village from using other methods or
proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this article, including,
without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit Court of Cook
County, or before another administrative tribunal which has jurisdiction to
consider the violation.
(Ord. 2020-8-12A, 8-12-2020)
CHAPTER 11: WEAPONS
ARTICLE A: ASSAULT WEAPONS
Section
7-11A-1:   Definitions
7-11A-2:   Safe Storage Of Assault Weapons; Exceptions
7-11A-3:   Transportation Of Assault Weapons; Exceptions
7-11A-4:   Penalty
7-11A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ASSAULT WEAPON:
   A.   A semiautomatic rifle that has the capacity to accept a large capacity
magazine detachable or otherwise and one or more of the following:
      1.   Only a pistol grip without a stock attached;
      2.   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can be
held by the non-trigger hand;
      3.   A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
      4.   A shroud attached to the barrel, or that partially or completely
encircles the barrel, allowing the bearer to hold the firearm with the non-
trigger hand without being burned, but excluding a slide that encloses the
barrel; or
      5.   A muzzle brake or muzzle compensator.
   B.   A semiautomatic rifle that has a fixed magazine that has the capacity
to accept more than ten (10) rounds of ammunition;
   C.   A semiautomatic pistol that has the capacity to accept a detachable
magazine and has one or more of the following:
      1.   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can be
held by the non-trigger hand;
      2.   A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
      3.   A shroud attached to the barrel, or that partially or completely
encircles the barrel, allowing the bearer to hold the firearm with the non-
trigger hand without being burned, but excluding a slide that encloses the
barrel; or
      4.   The capacity to accept a detachable magazine at some location
outside of the pistol grip.
   D.   A semiautomatic shotgun that has one or more of the following:
      1.   Only a pistol grip without a stock attached;
      2.   Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can be
held by the non-trigger hand;
      3.   A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
      4.   A fixed magazine capacity in excess of five (5) rounds; or
      5.   An ability to accept a detachable magazine.
   E.   Any shotgun with a revolving cylinder;
   F.   Conversion kit, part or combination of parts, from which an assault
weapon can be assembled if those parts are in the possession or under the
control of the same person;
   G.   Shall include, but not be limited to, the assault weapons models
identified as follows:
      1.   The following rifles or copies or duplicates thereof:
         a.   AK, AKM, AKS, AK-47, AK-74, ARM, MAK90, Misr, NHM 90, NHM 91, SA
85, SA 93, VEPR;
         b.   AR-10;
         c.   AR-15, Bushmaster XM15, Armalite M15, or Olympic Arms PCR;
         d.   AR70;
         e.   Calico Liberty;
         f.   Dragunov SVD Sniper Rifle or Dragunov SVU;
         g.   Fabrique National FN/FAL, FN/LAR, or FNC;
         h.   Hi-Point Carbine;
         i.   HK-91, HK-93, HK-94, or HK-PSG-1;
         j.   Kel-Tec Sub Rifle;
         k.   Saiga;
         l.   SAR-8, SAR-4800;
         m.   SKS with detachable magazine;
         n.   SLG 95;
         o.   SLR 95 or 96;
         p.   Steyr AUG;
         q.   Sturm, Ruger Mini-14;
         r.   Tavor;
         s.   Thompson 1927, Thompson M1, or Thompson 1927 Commando; or
         t.   Uzi, Galil and Uzi Sporter, Galil Sporter, or Galil Sniper Rifle
(Galatz).
      2.   The following pistols or copies or duplicates thereof, when not
designed to be held and fired by the use of a single hand:
         a.   Calico M-110;
         b.   MAC-10, MAC-11, or MPA3;
         c.   Olympic Arms OA;
         d.   TEC-9, TEC-DC9, TEC-22 Scorpion, or AB-10; or
         e.   Uzi.
      3.   The following shotguns or copies or duplicates thereof:
         a.   Armscor 30 BG;
         b.   SPAS 12 or LAW 12;
         c.   Striker 12; or
         d.   Streetsweeper.
   H.   ASSAULT WEAPON does not include any firearm that has been made
permanently inoperable, or satisfies the definition of “antique firearm,” or
weapons designed for Olympic target shooting events.
DETACHABLE MAGAZINE: Any ammunition feeding device, the function of which is to
deliver one (1) or more ammunition cartridges into the firing chamber, which
can be removed from the firearm without the use of any tool, including a bullet
or ammunition cartridge.
LARGE CAPACITY MAGAZINE: Any ammunition feeding device with the capacity to
accept more than ten (10) rounds, but shall not be construed to include the
following:
   A.   A feeding device that has been permanently altered so that it cannot
accommodate more than ten (10) rounds;
   B.   A twenty-two (22) caliber tube ammunition feeding device; or
   C.   A tubular magazine that is contained in a lever-action firearm.
MUZZLE BRAKE: A device attached to the muzzle of a weapon that utilizes
escaping gas to reduce recoil.
MUZZLE COMPENSATOR: A device attached to the muzzle of a weapon that utilizes
escaping gas to control muzzle movement.
(Ord. 2013-7-10E, 7-10-2013)
7-11A-2: SAFE STORAGE OF ASSAULT WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Safe Storage: It shall be unlawful to store or keep any assault weapon
in the Village unless such weapon is secured in a locked container or equipped
with a tamper-resistant mechanical lock or other safety device, properly
engaged so as to render such weapon inoperable by any person other than the
owner or other lawfully authorized user. For purposes of this section, such
weapon shall not be deemed stored or kept when being carried by or under the
control of the owner or other lawfully authorized user.
   B.   Self Defense Exception: No person shall be punished for a violation of
this section if an assault weapon is used in a lawful act of self-defense or in
defense of another.
   C.   Applicability: The provisions of this section do not apply to (i) any
law enforcement officer, agent or employee of any municipality of the State;
(ii) any law enforcement officer, agent or employee of the State, or of any
other state, the United States; or (iii) any member of the military or other
service of any state, including national guard and reserves, if the persons
described are authorized by a competent authority to so carry an assault weapon
loaded on a public way and such person is acting within the scope of his duties
or training.
(Ord. 2013-7-10E, 7-10-2013)
7-11A-3: TRANSPORTATION OF ASSAULT WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to carry
or possess an assault weapon in the Village, except when on his land or in his
own abode, legal dwelling or fixed place of business, or on the land or in the
legal dwelling of another person as an invitee with that person’s permission,
except that this section does not apply to or affect transportation of assault
weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
      1.   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
      2.   Are not immediately accessible; or
      3.   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box, shipping
box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently valid
firearm owner’s identification card.
   B.   The provisions of this section do not apply to (i) any law enforcement
officer, agent or employee of any municipality of the State; (ii) any law
enforcement officer, agent or employee of the State, or of any other state, the
United States; or (iii) any member of the military or other service of any
state, including national guard and reserves officer, agent or employee of any
municipality of the commonwealth, if the persons described are authorized by a
competent authority to so carry an assault weapon loaded on a public way and
such person is acting within the scope of his duties or training.
(Ord. 2013-7-10E, 7-10-2013)
7-11A-4: PENALTY:
Any person who is found to have violated this article shall be fined not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2013-7-10E, 7-10-2013)
TITLE 8: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1: TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
8-1-1:   State Vehicle Code Adopted
8-1-2:   Definitions
8-1-3:   Application Of Provisions; Exemptions
8-1-4:   State License And Tag Required; Age Of Driver
8-1-5:   Classification Of Vehicles
8-1-6:   Accidents
8-1-7:   Traffic Schedules On File
8-1-8:   Advertising Devices On Rights-Of-Way Of Limited Access Highways
8-1-1: STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
Pursuant to the authority granted by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204,
the Village hereby adopts by reference, in total, the Illinois Vehicle Code,
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., as the same may be amended from
time to time, which is made part of this Code and shall be cited hereafter by
reference to this section followed by the appropriate Illinois Vehicle Code
section number.
(Ord. 2017-11-8C, 11-8-2017)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The closely built up business portion of the Village.
CROSSWALK: That portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of the
sidewalk lines at street intersections.
DRIVER: Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the Department of Public Safety; ambulances; or
any vehicle conveying a Village official or employee in response to an
emergency official call.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by a Tagliabue or equivalent closed
cup test device.
IMPROVED HIGHWAY: A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation of the property lines
of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such streets
cross.
LANED HIGHWAY: A street, the roadway of which is divided into three (3) or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
METAL TIRE: Every tire, the surface of which is in contact with the roadway and
is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires, but not operated on
rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground
but excluding a tractor.
PARK: To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time greater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of persons.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots or
property abutting thereon.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the Village or by any park district, school
district, the State of Illinois, or the United States Government.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The closely built up residence portion of the Village.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either independently or
any part of the weight of a load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
traffic.
SAFETY ZONE: That portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STREET: Every way set aside for public travel, except footpaths.
SUBURBAN DISTRICT: That portion of the Village other than the closely built up
business and residence districts.
TRAFFIC: Vehicles using any street for travel.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including bicycles but not including
perambulators, toy vehicles or conveyances driven by an infirm or crippled
person or when an infirm or crippled person is the sole passenger therein while
the conveyance is driven by another person.
(1971 Code § 21-1)
8-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Bicycles: Every person riding a bicycle upon any street shall be
subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions which can have no application to one riding a bicycle.
(1971 Code § 21-9)
   B.   Emergency And Public Works Vehicles: The provisions of this title
regulating the movement or parking of vehicles shall not apply to emergency
vehicles while the driver thereof is engaged in the performance of emergency
duties. Nor shall such provisions apply to persons actually engaged in
repairing or otherwise improving the streets under authority of the Board of
Trustees or of the State.
(1971 Code § 21-10)
8-1-4: STATE LICENSE AND TAG REQUIRED; AGE OF DRIVER:
   A.   State License Required: No license shall be issued to the owner or
lessee of any truck, trailer, or bus unless a license has already been issued
therefor by the State of Illinois.
(1971 Code § 21-64)
   B.   License Tag: Each owner, upon payment of the fee fixed in the Village
Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1D of this Code, shall be furnished with an
appropriate license tag which the owner shall affix to the vehicle by attaching
the same in the lower left hand corner of the windshield of the vehicle and in
a conspicuous place on the trailer.
(Ord. 94-11-2D, 11-2-1994; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Age Limit: No person under eighteen (18) years of age, except as
provided under the provisions of the Illinois Driver Licensing Law, and except
those persons possessing a valid out of State driver's license, shall operate
any motor vehicle upon any street in the Village.
(1971 Code § 21-58)
8-1-5: CLASSIFICATION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means and
includes automobiles, locomobiles, motor bicycles, tractors, traction engines,
and all other vehicles propelled otherwise than by muscular power and also
including vehicles or trailers, or semitrailers pulled or towed by a motor
vehicle, but excluding cars of electric and steam railways and other motor
vehicles running only upon fixed rails or tracks or propelled by electric power
obtained from overhead trolley wires. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply or to affect bicycles, tricycles or such vehicles as are
propelled exclusively by muscular pedal power.
(1971 Code § 21-61)
   B.   Vehicle Divisions (see subsection 3-1-15C for license fees): For the
purpose of this section, motor vehicles as a class shall be divided into two
(2) divisions:
      1.   Those vehicles which are designed and used for the carrying of not
more than seven (7) persons.
      2.   Those vehicles which are designed and used for pulling or carrying
freight goods, wares and merchandise and also those vehicles or motor cars
which are designated and used for the carrying of more than seven (7) persons.
(1971 Code §§ 21-3, 21-62)
8-1-6: ACCIDENTS:
No driver of a vehicle which has collided with or been in an accident with any
vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage shall
fail or refuse to stop immediately, to render such assistance as may be
possible, to give his true name and residence to the injured person or any
other persons requesting the same on behalf of the injured person or the owner
of the property damaged, and to a public safety officer if one is present. A
report of each such accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle
concerned to the Superintendent of Public Safety within twenty four (24) hours
after the accident. (1971 Code § 21-60)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
7-2-1  of this Code
8-1-7: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES ON FILE:
The Village passes ordinances regulating the various traffic schedules in the
Village, e.g., specific stop or yield intersections, speed limits and specific
streets, parking prohibitions and restrictions on specific streets, commercial
truck traffic on specific streets and limited load limits on specific streets.
The traffic schedules are on file in the Office of the Village Clerk for public
use and inspection.
(2019 Code)
8-1-8: ADVERTISING DEVICES ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY OF LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
ADVERTISING DEVICE: Any advertising sign, billboard or poster panel which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment not
exclusively related to the premises where the sign is located or to which it is
affixed.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: A trafficway, including expressways and toll roads for
through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property
or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the same,
except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
(1971 Code § 21-67)
   B.   Restrictions: No advertising device shall be erected or relocated on
any site within the Village which is within six hundred feet (600') of the
right-of-way line of any limited access highway, if the face thereof is visible
therefrom. Advertising devices located at a greater distance than six hundred
feet (600') from the right-of-way line of any limited access highway and
visible therefrom shall not exceed in gross area in square feet one two-
hundredths (1/200) times the square of the distance of such advertising device
from such limited access highway.
(1971 Code § 21-68)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
Section
8-2-1:   Authority To Direct Traffic; Compliance Required; Unauthorized
Direction Of Traffic
8-2-2:   Parking Violations
8-2-3:   Penalties
8-2-1: AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; UNAUTHORIZED DIRECTION
OF TRAFFIC:
   A.   Members of the Department of Public Safety are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this title, or in
emergencies as public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order,
signal or direction of a public safety officer.
   B.   Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the Superintendent of Public Safety to direct or attempt to
direct traffic.
(1971 Code § 21-4)
8-2-2: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Parking Violations: Whenever any vehicle shall
have been parked or standing in violation of any of the provisions of any
ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking or standing, the person or
corporation or other entity in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be
prima facie responsible for such violation and subject to the penalty therefor.
(Ord. 83-10-5E, 10-5-1983)
   B.   Immobilization Of Illegally Parked Vehicles:
      1.   Criteria For Determining Immobilization: A motor vehicle parked upon
the public way or in a public parking area or in a private parking area within
the corporate limits of the Village at any time may, by or under the direction
of an officer or member of the Village Public Safety Department, be immobilized
in such a manner as to prevent its operation if there are ten (10) or more
outstanding or otherwise unsettled traffic violation notices or warrants issued
for such violations pending against the owner of the motor vehicle.
      2.   Notice Placed On Vehicle: Upon immobilization of the motor vehicle,
the officer or member shall cause to be placed on the vehicle, in a conspicuous
manner, notice sufficient to warn any individual that the vehicle has been
immobilized and that any attempt to move the vehicle might result in damage to
the vehicle. As soon as practicable, the officer or member shall inform the
owner of the immobilized vehicle of the nature and circumstances of the prior
outstanding or unsettled traffic violation notices or warrants for which, or on
account of which, the vehicle was immobilized.
(Ord. 87-6-3K, 6-3-1987)
      3.   Vehicle Release Procedure:
         a.   The owner of an immobilized vehicle, or other authorized person,
shall be permitted to secure release of the vehicle upon:
            (1)   The depositing of the collateral requirement for his/her
appearance in the Circuit Court for each violation; or
            (2)   Depositing the amount of the fine or penalty for each
violation for which there is an outstanding or otherwise unsettled traffic
violation notice or warrant; and
            (3)   The payment of the fees as required by subsection B5 of this
section.
         b.   The owner of the immobilized vehicle, or other authorized person,
shall have the right to a post-immobilization hearing to determine the validity
of such immobilization, towing and any towing or storage charges. The hearing
must be requested in writing and received by the Office of the Superintendent
of Public Safety within fifteen (15) days after the vehicle is immobilized. The
hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer appointed to conduct such
hearings by the Superintendent. The post-immobilization hearing will not be
determinative or adjudicate any citation issued relative to any immobilized
vehicle.
(Ord. 2002-10-2D, 10-2-2002)
      4.   Towing Or Impoundment Of Vehicle; Payment Of Fee: The immobilizing
device or mechanism shall remain in place for forty eight (48) hours unless the
owner has complied with subsection B3 of this section. If such compliance has
not occurred within forty eight (48) hours, the vehicle shall be towed or
impounded. If the immobilization occurs when a vehicle is parked in a rush-hour
traffic zone or in any zone regulated by towing provisions, then the vehicle is
subject to towing and impounding. Towing and storage fees, as specified in
subsection B5 of this section of this section shall be paid, along with fees
specified in subsection B3 of this section before the owner of the vehicle, or
authorized person, shall be permitted to repossess or secure the release of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 87-6-3K, 6-3-1987)
      5.   Fees: The owner of an immobilized vehicle shall be subject to a fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for such immobilization. The owner of an
immobilized vehicle which has been impounded shall, in addition to the fee for
immobilization, also be required to pay any fees that may be applicable for the
towing and storage of the vehicle. Such towing and storage fees shall either be
paid to the Village or to the company which towed the vehicle for the Village.
(Ord. 2002-10-2D, 10-2-2002)
      6.   Enforcement Official: The Superintendent of Public Safety shall have
authority for implementing the parking enforcement provisions of this
subsection.
      7.   Right To Hearing Or Trial: Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to deprive any person of the Constitutional right to a hearing or
trial as to the violations charged. (Ord. 87-6-3K, 6-3-1987)
   C.   Towing Of Illegally Parked Vehicles:
      1.   The Public Safety Department is authorized to impound and cause to
be towed by a towing service any vehicle which is parked in violation of any of
the following provisions of this title:
         a.   Subsection 8-5-2D, prohibiting the blocking a lane on a street or
highway designated for use by moving traffic.
         b.   Subsection 8-5-2G, prohibiting reduction of roadway available to
moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
         c.   Subsection 8-5-2H, prohibiting parking within fifteen feet (15')
of a fire hydrant or fire connection.
         d.   Section 8-5-5, prohibiting the unauthorized use of parking spaces
reserved for the handicapped or disabled.
      2.   The Public Safety Department is authorized to impound and cause to
be towed by a towing service any vehicle which is:
         a.   Parked for fifteen (15) minutes or longer in a designated fire
lane.
         b.   Parked in a designated fire lane so as to impede the movement of
public safety vehicles.
         c.   Parked on a Village street in violation of a permit parking only
restriction where signs are posted indicating that vehicles parked without the
required permit are subject to being towed.
         d.   Parked without the required permit in a parking space in a
parking lot or parking structure owned or operated by the Village where use of
the parking space is limited only to persons who have been issued the required
permit and where signs are posted indicating that vehicles parked without the
required permit are subject to being towed.
         e.   Parked on a street or in an alley where signs have been posted
which state that parking is prohibited, and that vehicles parked in violation
of the parking prohibition are subject to being towed.
      3.   The provisions of chapter 9 of this title relating to the
disposition of inoperable motor vehicles shall be applicable to vehicles towed
pursuant to this subsection. The owner or operator of any vehicle which is
towed pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to paying a towing fee prior
to having the vehicle released to the possession of the owner or operator. The
towing fee shall be refunded to the owner or operator if it is later determined
that the vehicle was not subject to being towed under this subsection.
(Ord. 2001-9-5E, 9-5-2001)
8-2-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating subsection
8-5-2A, B, C, D, E, I, J, L, M, N, O, or P or subsection
8-1-4B of this title shall be fined not less than thirty five dollars ($35.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; provided, that
if a fine is paid prior to the first court date specified on a citation, the
fine shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). Each two (2) hour period or part
thereof that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Any person violating subsection
8-5-2H of this title shall be fined not less than one hundred twenty five
dollars ($125.00) dollars nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense; provided, that if a fine is paid prior to the first court date
specified on a citation, the fine shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each
two (2) hour period or part thereof that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating subsection
8-5-4A1 of this title shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) in addition to
any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of the motor vehicle
as authorized under section 8-5-4 of this title or any other provision of this
Code, ordinance of the Village or law of the State of Illinois. Each two (2)
hour period or part thereof that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   D.   Any person violating subsection
8-5-4A2 of this title shall be fined six hundred dollars ($600.00) in addition
to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of the motor
vehicle as authorized under section 8-5-4 of this title or any other provision
of this Code, ordinance of the Village or law of the State of Illinois. Each
two (2) hour period or part thereof that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
   E.   Any person violating subsection
8-5-2K or section
8-9-2 of this title shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense; provided, that
if a fine is paid prior to the first court date specified on a citation, the
fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). Each two (2) hour period or part thereof
that a violation of subsection 8-5-2K continues shall constitute a separate
offense. Each day that a violation of section
8-9-2 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   F.   Except as may otherwise be provided in this section, any person
violating any provision of this title shall be subject to a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense, in addition to being subject to any applicable laws,
ordinances, rules or regulations relating to the suspension or revocation of
licenses. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2006-2-1F, 2-1-2006)
ARTICLE A: AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
Section
8-2A-1:   Definitions
8-2A-2:   Red Light Violations
8-2A-3:   Notice Of Violation
8-2A-4:   Hearing
8-2A-5:   Final Determination
8-2A-6:   Notice Of Impending Driver’s License Suspension
8-2A-7:   Driver’s License Suspension
8-2A-8:   Prosecutions Of Violations
8-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device with one or more motor
vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light signal to produce
recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection against a steady or
flashing red light signal indication in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-306 or section
8-3-1  and/or section
8-3-3  of this Code.
DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: The operation of a motor vehicle in a
manner that constitutes a failure to comply with a steady red indication signal
as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306(c) or subsection 8-3-3A
of this Code. For purposes of this article, the automatic traffic law
enforcement system may not be used to issue violations for disregarding a
traffic control device where the motor vehicle comes to a complete stop and
does not enter the "intersection", as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-132, during the cycle of the red signal indication unless one or more
pedestrians or bicyclists are present, even if the motor vehicle stops at a
point past a stop line or crosswalk where a driver is required to stop, as
specified in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306 or section
8-3-3  of this Code.
NO TURN ON RED VIOLATION: Operating a motor vehicle so as to cause the motor
vehicle to turn right at an intersection that is controlled both by a sign
stating “No Turn on Red”, or other similar language, and a traffic control
signal when the vehicle is facing a steady red indication as provided in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306 or subsection
8-3-3 A of this Code.
RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by an automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either: a) two (2) or more photographs; b) two (2) or
more microphotographs; c) two (2) or more electronic images; or d) a video
recording showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of
the recording, clearly identifying the registration plate or digital
registration plate number of the motor vehicle.
TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed to serve as such by the
Superintendent of Public Safety. The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall
have the authority to adopt, distribute and process automated traffic law
violation notices and other notices required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-208.3, collect money paid as fines and penalties for violation of parking
and compliance ordinances and automated traffic law violations, operate the
automated traffic law enforcement system, and make certified reports to the
Secretary of State in accordance with and as authorized by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
8-2A-2: RED LIGHT VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The registered owner of record or lessee of a vehicle is liable for a
violation of this section and a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) when the
vehicle is recorded by an automated traffic law enforcement system as being
operated in a manner that constitutes “disregarding a traffic control device”,
as defined in section 8-2A-1 of this article, or committing a “no turn on red
violation”, as defined in section
8-2A-1 of this article. A photographic recording of a violation obtained by an
automated traffic law enforcement system shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section. It shall be a defense to a violation of this section
that:
      1.   The operator of the vehicle was issued a uniform traffic citation
for a violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306 or section 8-3-3 of
this Code.
      2.   The violation occurred at a time during which the vehicle or the
State registration plates of the motor vehicle were reported to a law
enforcement agency as having been stolen and the vehicle or its plates had not
been recovered by the owner or lessee at the time of the alleged violation. To
demonstrate that the motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen
before the violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of
the owner or lessee at the time of the violation, the owner or lessee must
submit proof that a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration
plates was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
      3.   The vehicle was leased to another and, within sixty (60) days after
the notice of violation was mailed to the owner, as provided in section
8-2A-3 of this article, the owner submitted to the Traffic Compliance
Administrator the correct name and address of the lessee of the vehicle
identified in the notice of violation at the time of the violation, together
with a copy of the lease agreement and any additional information as may be
required by the Traffic Compliance Administrator. Where the lessor complies
with the provisions of this subsection A3, the lessee of the vehicle shall be
deemed to be the registered owner of the vehicle for purposes of this article.
The Traffic Compliance Administrator, within thirty (30) days of being notified
by the lessor of the name and address of the lessee, shall mail the lessee a
notice of violation which contains the information required under
8-2A-3 of this article. For the purposes of this article, the term "leased
vehicle" shall be defined as a vehicle in which a motor vehicle dealership or
manufacturer has, pursuant to a written document, vested exclusive possession,
use, control and responsibility of the vehicle to the lessee during the periods
the vehicle is operated by or for the lessee.
      4.   The vehicle disregarding a traffic control device or committing a no
turn on red violation as a result of compliance with the direction of an
officer or other Village agent conducting traffic.
      5.   The facts alleged in the notice of violation are inconsistent or do
not support a finding that this article was violated.
      6.   The person to whom the notice of violation was addressed was not the
registered owner or lessee of the vehicle identified in the notice of violation
at the time of the violation.
   B.   The provisions of this section do not apply to: 1) any authorized
emergency vehicle; 2) any vehicle lawfully participating in a funeral
procession; or 3) any vehicle that was operated in a manner that constitutes
“disregarding a traffic control device”, as defined in section
8-2A-1 of this article, or committing a “no turn on red violation”, as defined
in section
8-2A-1 of this article, in order to yield the right-of-way to an emergency
vehicle. The provisions of this section do not apply to the use of an automated
traffic law enforcement system to issue violations in instances where a
motorcyclist enters an intersection against a red signal indication when the
red signal fails to change to a green signal within a reasonable period of time
not less than one hundred twenty (120) seconds because of a signal malfunction
or because the signal has failed to detect the arrival of the motorcycle due to
the motorcycle's size or weight.
   C.   All determinations by a technician that a motor vehicle was being
operated in a manner that constitutes “disregarding a traffic control device”,
as defined in section
8-2A-1 of this article, must be reviewed and approved by a Village law
enforcement officer or retired Village law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
8-2A-3: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   If, as a result of an inspection of recorded images, the Traffic
Compliance Administrator determines that a motor vehicle was being operated in
violation of section
8-2A-2 of this article, the Traffic Compliance Administrator shall issue or
cause to be issued a written notice of violation to the registered owner or
lessee of the vehicle. The initial notice of violation must be mailed within
thirty (30) days after the Illinois Secretary of State notifies the Village of
the identity of the registered owner of the vehicle, and in no event later than
ninety (90) days following the violation. If a notice of violation is returned
after mailing as undeliverable, a second notice shall be sent to the last known
address of the registered owner recorded in a United States Post Office
approved database. The second notice shall be made by first class mail, postage
prepaid. The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall retain a copy of all
violation notices, recorded images and other correspondence mailed to the owner
of the vehicle.
   B.   A notice of violation shall include the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States Post Office approved database.
      2.   The make (only if discernible) and registration number of the motor
vehicle involved in the violation.
      3.   The violation charged.
      4.   The location where the violation occurred.
      5.   The date and time of the violation.
      6.   A copy of the recorded images.
      7.   The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid if a hearing is not requested (which date shall be not less than
14 days from the date of issuance) and a statement that payment of the fine
shall operate as a final disposition of the violation.
      8.   A statement that recorded images are a violation of a red light
signal.
      9.   A warning that a failure to pay the civil penalty or to contest
liability by the date specified in the notice as the response date is an
admission of liability and may result in a suspension of driving privileges of
the registered owner of the vehicle.
      10.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by:
         a.   Paying the fine; or
         b.   Challenging the charge made in the notice of violation and
contesting liability in person or by mail with an administrative hearing
officer in person or by mail or otherwise by mail requesting a court hearing
with jurisdiction for resolving challenges to the charge.
      11.   A warning that a failure to pay the fine or to contest liability in
a timely manner will result in the imposition of a late fee and the amount of
the late fee.
      12.   A statement of how a request may be made for the opportunity to
appear, in person, at an administrative hearing on the charge and/or how the
charge made in the notice of violation may be challenged by mail.
      13.   A website address, accessible through the Internet, where the
person may view the recorded images of the violation.
   C.   The response date specified in a notice of violation shall be not less
than fourteen (14) days or more than twenty eight (28) days after the date the
notice of violation is mailed.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
8-2A-4: HEARING:
   A.   The owner or lessee of a vehicle who is sent a notice of violation may
request the opportunity to be present, in person, for a hearing utilizing the
administrative adjudication process established pursuant to title 1, chapter 4,
article A of this Code for the purpose of challenging the charge in the notice
of violation by making a request no later than the response date specified in
the notice of violation. If the owner or lessee of the vehicle is not a
resident of the Village, then he/she shall have the alternative of requesting
that the hearing be conducted by mail as provided in subsection E of this
section. If an in-person hearing is requested, the Traffic Compliance
Administrator shall notify the person requesting the hearing of the date, time
and location of the hearing not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the date
of the hearing.
   B.   The hearing shall be limited to determining whether the notice of
violation, including the recorded images, together with any other evidence that
may be presented at the hearing, supports a determination that:
      1.   The operator of the vehicle was issued a uniform traffic citation
for a violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306 or section or
section
8-3-3 of this Code.
      2.   The violation occurred at a time during which the vehicle or its
State registration plates or digital registration plates were reported to a law
enforcement agency as having been stolen, and the vehicle or its registration
plates had not been recovered by the owner at the time of the alleged
violation.
      3.   The vehicle was leased to another and, within sixty (60) days after
the notice of violation was mailed to the owner, the owner submitted to the
Traffic Compliance Administrator the correct name and address of the person who
was the lessee of the vehicle identified in the notice of violation at the time
of the violation, together with a copy of the lease agreement and any
additional information as may be required by the Traffic Compliance
Administrator.
      4.   The vehicle was an authorized emergency vehicle.
      5.   The vehicle was lawfully participating in a funeral procession.
      6.   The vehicle was being operated in a manner that constitutes
disregarding a traffic control device or committing a no turn on red violation
in order to yield the right-of-way to an emergency vehicle.
      7.   The vehicle disregarding a traffic control device or committing a no
turn on red violation as a result of compliance with the direction of an
officer or other Village agent conducting traffic.
      8.   The facts alleged in the notice of violation are inconsistent or do
not support a finding that section 8-2A-2 of this article was violated.
      9.   The person to whom the notice of violation was addressed was not the
registered owner or lessee of the vehicle identified in the notice of violation
at the time of the violation.
      10.   The notice of violation was issued for the operation of a
motorcycle that is not subject to a violation pursuant to subsection
8-2A-2B of this article.
   C.   The notice of violation, including the recorded images, shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the facts contained in the notice of
violation and shall be admissible in any hearing held to consider a charge that
there was a violation of section
8-2A-2 of this article subject to rebuttal on the basis of evidence showing the
existence of one of the defenses set forth in subsection
8-2A-2A or B of this article.
   D.   The registered owner's failure to appear at the in-person
administrative hearing will result in a finding of liability, the imposition of
a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine and the issuance of a finding, decision and
order letter being sent to the registered owner which shall inform the
registered owner that a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) has been imposed
for which the registered owner is liable. The finding, decision and order
letter shall further set a date which is not less than twenty five (25) days
from the date of the finding, decision and order by which the fine is to be
paid. The registered owner's failure to pay the one hundred dollar ($100.00)
fine by the date specified in the finding, decision and order letter will
constitute grounds for the issuance of a final determination as set forth in
section
8-2A-5 of this article.
   E.   If the person identified as the registered owner of a vehicle in a
notice of violation issued pursuant to section
8-2A-3 of this article is not a resident of the Village, then such person may
contest the charges in the notice of violation using the grounds set forth in
subsection B of this section, but rather than attend the administrative hearing
in person, the registered owner may request, no later than the response date
specified in the notice of violation, to be allowed to submit any and all other
materials to the Traffic Compliance Administrator by mail. Such documentary
evidence and other materials must be submitted no later than the date specified
in the notice of violation. The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall forward
all timely submitted documentary evidence and other materials to the hearing
officer for review and determination. The records of the Illinois Secretary of
State shall be prima facie evidence as to whether the registered owner is a
resident of the Village. Any person or entity requesting a hearing by mail
shall have the affirmative obligation to notify the Village of any changes in
his/her address.
   F.   Following the conclusion of the hearing, whether conducted in person or
by mail, the hearing officer shall issue a finding, decision and order letter
to the registered owner or lessee. The finding, decision and order letter shall
impose a fine in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to be paid by the
registered owner or lessee if the hearing officer determines that the evidence
considered at the hearing does not support a determination that one of the
grounds set forth in subsection B of this section exists. The finding, decision
and order letter shall further set a date which is not less than twenty five
(25) days from the date of the finding, decision and order by which the fine is
to be paid.
   G.   A registered owner or lessee that admits liability by either failing to
timely respond to a notice of violation or failing to timely pay the civil
penalty set forth in the notice of violation shall be sent a determination of
liability letter imposing a fine in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
to be paid by the registered owner or lessee. The determination of liability
letter shall further set a date which is not less than twenty five (25) days
from the date of the finding, decision and order by which the fine is to be
paid.
   H.   A hearing officer may withdraw a finding, decision and order letter
issued pursuant to subsection D of this section for the failure to appear at a
hearing after receipt of a petition from the registered owner or lessee made
within fourteen (14) days after the date of the finding, decision and order
letter, provided the hearing officer determines there was good cause for the
failure to appear at the hearing. If a finding, decision and order letter is
withdrawn, the hearing officer shall re-schedule a hearing. A hearing officer
may withdraw a determination of liability letter issued pursuant to subsection
G of this section after receipt of a petition from the registered owner or
lessee made within fourteen (14) days after the date of the determination of
liability letter, provided the hearing officer determines there was good cause
for the failure to either timely respond to a notice of violation or timely pay
the civil penalty set forth in the notice of violation. If a determination of
liability letter is withdrawn, the hearing officer shall schedule a hearing.
   I.   The decision of a hearing officer shall be subject to judicial review
in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
8-2A-5: FINAL DETERMINATION:
   A.   A notice of final determination of a liability for a violation of
section
8-2A-2 of this article shall be issued following one of the following events:
      1.   The failure to pay the fine specified in the notice of violation or
request a hearing by the response date specified in the notice of violation and
the failure to pay the fine specified in a determination of liability letter by
the date specified in the letter.
      2.   The failure to pay the fine set forth in a finding, decision and
order letter by the date specified in the letter unless the Village is notified
that the registered owner or lessee has filed an action seeking judicial review
of the determination made in the finding, decision and order letter.
   B.   If the amount of the fine specified in a notice of final determination
is not paid within twenty five (25) days of the date of the notice of final
determination, the registered owner or lessee shall become liable for paying a
late fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) in addition to the one hundred dollar
($100.00.00) fine specified in the notice of final determination.
   C.   The notice of final determination shall be mailed to the registered
owner or lessee. The notice of final determination shall state that the
registered owner or lessee has exhausted all available means of challenging his
liability for the violation of section
8-2A-2 of this article and that the registered owner or lessee is liable for
paying a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine along with the amount for any late
payment fee that may become applicable and that the one hundred dollar
($100.00) fine and any applicable late payment fee is a debt due to the
Village. The amount of the fine specified in the notice of final determination
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) and set forth in the finding, decision
and order letter. The notice of final determination shall state that if payment
of the fine specified in the notice of final determination is not received by
or on behalf of the Village within fourteen (14) days from the date of the
notice, a late payment fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall become due
and owing to the Village in addition to the amount of the fine.
   D.   The notice of final determination shall contain a statement that a
failure to pay any fine and late payment fee that may be due and owing to the
Village may result in the Village petitioning the Circuit Court of Cook County
to enter judgment against the registered owner or lessee for the amount of the
fine and any applicable late payment fee and may also result in the suspension
of the registered owner’s or lessee’s driver’s license if the registered owner
or lessee has accumulated five (5) or more unpaid fines for violation of
section
8-2A-2 of this article.
   E.   Payment of a fine specified in a notice of final determination shall be
deemed received when actually received by or on behalf of the Village or if
mailed by first class U.S. mail on the date the envelope in which payment is
enclosed is postmarked.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
8-2A-6: NOTICE OF IMPENDING DRIVER’S LICENSE SUSPENSION:
   A.   A notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent to the
person liable for any fines and late payment fees that remain due and owing on
five (5) or more violations of section
8-2A-2 of this article. The notice of impending driver's license suspension
shall state the following:
      1.   The failure to pay the fine owing within forty five (45) days of the
notice date will result in the Village notifying the Secretary of State that
the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
      2.   A statement that the person may obtain a copy of the original notice
of violation and a copy of the notice of final determination imposing a fine by
sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the Village along with a request
for the copy.
   B.   The notice of impending driver’s license suspension shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the Illinois
Secretary of State or, if any notice to that address is returned as
undeliverable, to the last known address recorded in a United States Post
Office approved database.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
8-2A-7: DRIVER’S LICENSE SUSPENSION:
   A.   Whenever any person who has failed to pay the fines set forth in five
(5) or more notices of final determinations of violations of section
8-2A-2 of this article, the Traffic Compliance Administrator shall file a
report with the Illinois Secretary of State informing the Secretary of State
that the person named in the report has failed to pay the fines set forth in
five (5) or more notices of final determinations of violations of section
8-2A-2 of this article. The report shall be certified, shall identify the
Village as making the request and shall contain the following information, as
well as any other information which may be required by law or required or
requested by the Secretary of State:
      1.   The name and driver’s license of the person whose driving privileges
the Village is requesting be suspended and the person's last known address as
recorded with the Secretary of State and as recorded in a United States Post
Office approved database if a notice of impending driver’s license suspension
or any other notice provided for in this article has been returned as
undeliverable. If the vehicle used in the violation of section
8-2A-2 of this article is leased and the lessee is considered to be the
registered owner of the vehicle under subsection
8-2A-2A3 of this article, then the notice shall state the last address of the
lessee known to the lessor at the time of the lease.
      2.   The registration number of any vehicle known to be registered in the
State of Illinois to such person.
      3.   A statement that a notice of impending driver’s license suspension
has been sent to the person named in the certified report, the date the notice
of impending driver’s license suspension was sent, and the address to which the
notice of impending driver's license suspension was sent.
      4.   A statement that the address(es) to which the notice of impending
driver’s license suspension was sent was the last known address of the person
named in the certified report as recorded with the Secretary of State and as
recorded in a United States Post Office approved database if a notice of
impending driver’s license suspension or any other notice provided for under
this article has been returned as undeliverable. If the vehicle used in the
violation of section
8-2A-2 of this article is leased and the lessee is considered to be the
registered owner of the vehicle under subsection
8-2A-2A3 of this article, then the notice shall state that the notice of
impending driver’s license suspension was sent to the last address of the
lessee known to the lessor at the time of the lease.
   B.   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall notify the Secretary of
State whenever a person named in a certified report has paid the previously
recorded fine or penalty or whenever the Village determines that a certified
report was sent to the Secretary of State in error. A certified copy of such
notification shall also be given upon request and at no additional charge to
the person named in the certified report.
   C.   1.   Any person receiving a notice of impending driver's license
suspension from the Village or a notice from the Secretary of State that the
person's driving privileges may be suspended as a result of a failure to pay
the fines set forth in five (5) or more notices of final determinations of
violations of section
8-2A-2 of this article may challenge the accuracy of the certified report
prepared by the Traffic Compliance Administrator by making a written request to
the Traffic Compliance Administrator that the Traffic Compliance Administrator
conduct an informal hearing within not more than twenty one (21) days after the
date of the notice of impending driver's license suspension or the date of the
notice from the Secretary of State. If an informal hearing is requested, the
hearing may be conducted by the Traffic Compliance Administrator or such other
person as is designated by the Superintendent of Public Safety. The hearing may
be held in person, over the telephone or by mail. At the hearing, the person
requesting the hearing shall be entitled to introduce documents and other
evidence that is intended to establish either:
         a.   That the person was not the registered owner or lessee, if the
lessee is considered the registered owner under subsection
8-2A-2A3 of this article, of the vehicle or vehicles for which five (5) or more
notices of violation of section
8-2A-2 of this article were issued on the dates of the notices; or
         b.   That the person has already paid the fine or penalty for the five
(5) or more violations of section
8-2A-2 of this article indicated on the certified report submitted to the
Secretary of State pursuant to subsection A of this section.
      2.   If the person conducting the informal hearing determines that the
person requesting the hearing was not the registered owner or lessee, if the
lessee is considered the registered owner under subsection
8-2A-2A3 of this article, of the vehicle or vehicles for which five (5) or more
notices of violation of section
8-2A-2 of this article were issued on the dates of the notices or that the
person has already paid the fine or penalty for the five (5) or more violations
of section
8-2A-2 of this article indicated on the certified report, the Traffic
Compliance Administrator shall notify the Secretary of State that the certified
report was issued in error. A certified copy of the notice informing the
Secretary of State that the certified report was issued in error shall also be
sent upon request and at no charge to the person who requested the hearing.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
8-2A-8: PROSECUTIONS OF VIOLATIONS:
Violations of the provisions of section
8-2A-2 of this article are subject to prosecution under the Village
administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant to
title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code, as now or hereafter amended. The
provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this article
including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit
Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which has
jurisdiction to consider the violation.
(Ord. 2018-5-9A, 5-9-2018)
CHAPTER 3: TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
Section
8-3-1:   Signs Posted
8-3-2:   Obedience Required
8-3-3:   Traffic Control Signal Legend
8-3-4:   Crosswalks
8-3-5:   Unauthorized Signs, Signals And Markings
8-3-6:   Damage To, Interference With Signs Or Signals
8-3-1: SIGNS POSTED:
The Village shall post appropriate traffic signs to notify the operators of
vehicles of the provisions of this title.
(1971 Code § 21-2)
8-3-2: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
No driver of any vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any traffic sign or
signal placed in view by authority of the Board of Trustees or in accordance
with the laws of the State.
(1971 Code § 21-5)
8-3-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic at an intersection is regulated by the type of signal commonly
known as a stop and go signal, the following colors shall indicate the
following commands:
   A.   Red requires that traffic faced by this color shall stop and remain
standing.
   B.   Green requires that traffic faced by this color shall move and continue
in motion, except when stopped for the purposes of avoiding an accident or when
stopped at the command of a public safety officer.
   C.   Amber or yellow indicates preparation for a change in direction of
traffic movement.
   D.   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes, drivers
of vehicles shall stop before entering the intersection.
   E.   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles may proceed into the intersection only with extra caution.
(1971 Code § 21-6)
8-3-4: CROSSWALKS:
The Village Board, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction, may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or specified lanes upon which
crosswalk lines or crosswalk markings are to be placed, and such markings may
be placed at intersectional and nonintersectional locations, and at other
appropriate points of pedestrian concentration. All such crosswalk lines or
crosswalk markings shall conform to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices as supplemented by the State of Illinois, and as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 83-4-13E, 4-13-1983)
8-3-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS:
No person shall place, maintain or display any device, other than an official
warning or direction sign or signal authorized by statute, this Code or
ordinance, upon or in view of any street, if such device purports to be, or is
in imitation of, an official warning or direction sign or signal, or directs or
purports to direct the movement of traffic. Any such unauthorized device is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be removed by any public safety
officer.
(1971 Code § 21-7)
8-3-6: DAMAGE TO, INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
No person shall deface, injure, move or interfere with an official traffic sign
or signal.
(1971 Code § 21-8)
CHAPTER 4: DRIVING RULES
Section
8-4-1:   Department Of Public Safety Vehicles
8-4-2:   Right-Of-Way
8-4-3:   Through Streets And Stop Intersections
8-4-4:   Speed Regulations
8-4-5:   Drive On Right
8-4-6:   Turning Movements
8-4-7:   Passing, Overtaking Vehicles
8-4-8:   Driver Signals
8-4-9:   Railroad Crossings
8-4-10:   General Driving Restrictions
8-4-11:   Driving On Sidewalks Or Curbs Or In Safety Zones
8-4-12:   Riding On Bicycles And Motorcycles
8-4-13:   Miscellaneous Prohibitions
8-4-14:   Reckless Driving
8-4-15:   Driving Under The Influence
8-4-1: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES:
   A.   Pull Over At Sound Of Warning Devices: Upon the sounding of gongs or
warning devices used upon fire apparatus or fire patrol vehicles, drivers shall
draw their vehicles as near to the right curb as is reasonably possible and
shall remain standing until such fire apparatus has passed.
   B.   Following, Parking Near Fire Apparatus: No driver of any vehicle, other
than one on official business, shall follow any fire apparatus in response to a
fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500'), or to park any vehicle within
five hundred feet (500') where fire apparatus has stopped to answer a fire
alarm.
   C.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No driver of any streetcar or vehicle shall
drive over any unprotected hose of the Bureau of Fire Suppression without the
consent of the Superintendent of Public Safety or the Deputy Chief of Bureau of
Fire Suppression.
(1971 Code § 21-21)
8-4-2: RIGHT-OF-WAY:
Subject to subsection
8-1-3B of this title, the driver of a vehicle shall give the right-of-way to
the driver of a vehicle approaching along an intersecting street from the right
and shall have the right-of-way over those approaching from the left.
(1971 Code § 21-20)
8-4-3: THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The Superintendent of Public Safety shall be
and hereby is authorized to designate:
      1.   That streets under the Village’s jurisdiction are to be through
streets;
      2.   That certain intersections of streets under the Village’s
jurisdiction are to be stop intersections; and
      3.   To designate other locations on streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction of the Village where motor vehicles shall be required to come to a
full stop prior to proceeding.
   B.   Signs Posted:
      1.   The Director of Public Works shall be and hereby is authorized to
have stop signs erected at all appropriate locations where streets have been
designated as through streets or intersections have been designated as stop
intersections by the Superintendent of Public Safety pursuant to the authority
granted by subsection A of this section. The Director of Public Works is also
authorized to have stop signs erected at such other locations as may be
designated by the Superintendent of Public Safety pursuant to the authority
granted by subsection A of this section.
      2.   The Corporate Authorities of the Village do hereby approve, ratify
and confirm the erection of any stop sign located along a street or alley that
is under the jurisdiction of the Village which was erected prior to the
effective date hereof. The Corporate Authorities of the Village further
approve, ratify and confirm:
         a.   Any designation of a street under the Village’s jurisdiction as a
through street that occurred prior to the effective date hereof;
         b.   Any designation of an intersection of streets under the
jurisdiction of the Village as a stop intersection that occurred prior to the
effective date hereof; and
         c.   The designation of any other location where a stop sign has been
erected on streets and alleys under the jurisdiction of the Village as a place
where motor vehicles are required to come to a full stop before proceeding
further that occurred prior to the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 95-10-4H, 10-4-1995)
8-4-4: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Prudent Speed: No person shall drive a vehicle upon any public highway
at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic
and the use of the way or so as to endanger the life or limb or injure the
property of any person.
   B.   Speed Limits Established: If the rate of speed of any motor vehicle
through the business district of the Village exceeds twenty (20) miles an hour,
or if the rate of speed of any such motor vehicle operated on any public
highway where the same passes through any residence district of the Village
exceeds twenty five (25) miles an hour, or if the rate of speed of any such
motor vehicle operated on any public highway in a suburban district exceeds
thirty five (35) miles an hour, such rates of speed shall be prima facie
evidence that the person operating such motor vehicle is running at a rate of
speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic and
use of the way or so as to endanger the life or limb or injure the property of
any person.
(1971 Code § 21-25)
8-4-5: DRIVE ON RIGHT:
   A.   Any driver of a vehicle, upon meeting another vehicle, shall turn
toward the right side of the roadway so far as may be necessary in order to
avoid a collision with such vehicle.
   B.   No person shall operate any vehicle upon the left side of any roadway
except where necessary because of obstructions.
(1971 Code § 21-22)
8-4-6: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Left Turns: The driver of any vehicle intending to turn to the left at
an intersection or into any alley or driveway shall approach the point of
turning in the traffic lane nearest the center of the roadway.
(1971 Code § 21-15)
   B.   Right Turns: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the right at
an intersection shall approach the point of turning in the traffic lane nearest
the right hand edge of curb of the roadway.
(1971 Code § 21-16)
8-4-7: PASSING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
Any driver of a vehicle, upon overtaking another vehicle, shall pass on the
left side of the overtaken vehicle. When requested so to do, any driver of a
vehicle traveling upon any street shall, as soon as practicable, turn to the
right so as to allow any overtaking vehicle free passage to the left of the
overtaken vehicle.
(1971 Code § 21-23)
8-4-8: DRIVER SIGNALS:
   A.   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or attempt
to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to apprise
others who might be affected by his action.
   B.   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such vehicle, then such signals must be given by a lamp
or device.
   C.   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease of speed: Hand and arm extended downward.
(1971 Code § 21-17)
8-4-9: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop
within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest
track of such railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not traverse
such grade crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagger gives a
signal of the approach of a train.
   C.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any
school bus, or of any vehicle carrying explosives or flammable liquids as cargo
shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet
(15') from the tracks and shall listen and look in both directions from which a
train might come before proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing.
(1971 Code § 21-33)
8-4-10: GENERAL DRIVING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obstructing Traffic: No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain
upon any street in such a way as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the
traffic thereon.
(1971 Code § 21-26)
   B.   Emerging From Alleys, Driveways Or Garages: The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, driveway or garage shall stop the vehicle immediately
prior to driving onto a sidewalk or across a sidewalk line projected across an
alley, sound the horn of the vehicle, and exercise unusual care in driving upon
the sidewalk or across the line.
(1971 Code § 21-18)
   C.   Unattended Vehicles: Except for a law enforcement officer or an
operator of an authorized emergency vehicle while performing his official
duties, no person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the brake thereon and,
when standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb
or side of the highway. An unattended motor vehicle shall not include an
unattended locked motor vehicle with the engine running after being started by
a remote starter system.
(1971 Code § 21-27)
8-4-11: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS OR CURBS OR IN SAFETY ZONES:
   A.   No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at
a permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of
a roadway marked as a safety zone.
   B.   No person shall drive a vehicle upon, across or over any public
sidewalk or public curb in the Village where no provision has been made for
crossing any sidewalk or curb by the construction of a suitable driveway or
crossing.
(1971 Code § 21-19)
   C.   No person shall drive over any curb and gutter except at a permanent
driveway designed and approved by the Village Engineer or when a special permit
has been issued by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement.
(1971 Code § 21-34)
8-4-12: RIDING ON BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES:
Only one person shall ride upon any bicycle propelled by human power upon any
street, and no person shall ride upon any motorcycle except upon a seat
attached to the motorcycle.
(1971 Code § 21-27)
8-4-13: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle or any toy vehicle shall cling to or attach himself or his vehicle
to any moving vehicle or wagon.
(1971 Code § 21-29)
   B.   Toy Vehicles: No person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other toy
vehicle shall go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
(1971 Code § 21-30)
   C.   Riding On Fenders Or Running Boards: No person shall ride upon the
fenders, running board or outside step of any vehicle.
(1971 Code § 21-31)
8-4-14: RECKLESS DRIVING:
No person shall operate any vehicle in the Village in a reckless or wanton
manner or so as to unnecessarily endanger life or property; or knowingly drive
a vehicle and uses an incline in a roadway, such as a railroad crossing, bridge
approach, or hill, to cause the vehicle to become airborne.
(1971 Code § 21-24)
8-4-15: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
   A.   A person shall not drive or be in actual physical control of any
vehicle within the Village while:
(Ord. 83-4-13D, 4-13-1983)
      1.   The alcohol concentration in such person’s blood or breath is 0.10
or more based on the definition of blood and breath units contained in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.2.
(Ord. 83-4-13D, 4-13-1983; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   Under the influence of alcohol.
      3.   Under the influence of any other drug or combination of drugs to a
degree which renders such person incapable of safely driving.
      4.   Under the combined influence of alcohol and any other drug or drugs
to a degree which renders such person incapable of safely driving.
   B.   The fact that any person charged with violating this section is or has
been legally entitled to use alcohol or other drugs, or any combination of
both, shall not constitute a defense against any charge of violating this
section.
(Ord. 83-4-13D, 4-13-1984)
   C.   Every person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor and shall be sentenced according to the provisions of 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(Ord. 83-4-13D, 4-13-1984; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
8-5-1:   Method Of Parking
8-5-2:   Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
8-5-3:   Permit Parking
8-5-4:   Parking In Spaces Reserved For Persons With Disabilities
8-5-5:   Parking During Snowfall
8-5-6:   Fire Lanes
8-5-7:   Commercial Vehicle Parking And Storage
8-5-8:   Parking During Loading Or Unloading
8-5-9:   Parking Lots
8-5-9-1:    Municipal Parking Lots Generally
8-5-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to
the curb.
   B.   No person shall stand or park any vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within
twelve inches (12") of the regularly established curb line; except, that upon
those streets that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked
at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
(1971 Code § 21-52)
8-5-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
At any time, no person shall permit any vehicle to stand in any of the
following places except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the direction of a public safety officer or a traffic signal
or when otherwise authorized by law:
   A.   In any intersection.
   B.   In a crosswalk.
   C.   Upon any bridge or viaduct or the approach thereto.
   D.   Where there are two (2) lanes designated for moving traffic on a street
or highway so as to prevent other vehicles from using a lane designated for
moving traffic.
   E.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal or a through street sign
on the approaching side.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection.
   G.   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the paved
width of a street or highway that can be used by moving traffic to less than
eighteen feet (18').
   H.   At any place within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant or any fire
connection or similar water outlet which is designed to provide a source of
water to be used in the case of fire or within a designated fire lane.
   I.   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
   J.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
   K.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance of a fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of such entrance.
   L.   On a sidewalk or other walkway designated or designed for use of
pedestrians or nonmotorized vehicles.
   M.   At any place within a Village owned or operated parking lot or parking
structure so as to occupy two (2) or more designated parking spaces or so as to
prevent the use of a designated parking space by another vehicle, other than
the designated parking space in which the vehicle is parked.
   N.   At any place within a Village owned or operated parking lot or parking
structure that is not a designated parking space.
   O.   Where signs posted by the Village or other official signs state that
parking is restricted or limited and the vehicle does not meet the applicable
restrictions or limitations.
   P.   Where signs posted by the Village or other official signs state that
parking is prohibited.
(Ord. 2001-10-3C, 10-3-2001)
8-5-3: PERMIT PARKING:
   A.   Residential Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any
vehicle at any time on a residential street within the Village without first
having notified and secured permission from the Department of Public Safety to
park said vehicle.
(Ord. 94-7-6A, 7-6-1994)
   B.   Nonresidential Streets:
      1.   Authority To Designate: The Superintendent of Public Safety shall be
and hereby is authorized to designate and establish locations where on street
parking of motor vehicles shall be allowed by permit only; provided, that no
location within an area that is classified as being within a residential zoning
district under the Village zoning ordinance and map shall be designated as a
location where on street parking of motor vehicles is allowed by permit only
unless the Village Corporate Authorities have approved such designation.
      2.   Signs Posted: The Superintendent of Public Safety and the Director
of Public Works are authorized and directed to erect signs along the curbs of
those areas that have been designated for permit parking only. Such signs shall
be designed to inform persons using the street where the sign is located that
parking a vehicle on the street is prohibited unless the vehicle displays a
permit allowing it to park on the street. No citation or complaint shall be
issued for parking a vehicle on a street in an area where on street parking is
allowed only if the vehicle displays a permit, unless signs have been installed
along the street which are designed to inform the public that parking on the
street is allowed only if a vehicle displays a permit.
      3.   Permit Requirements:
         a.   The Superintendent of Public Safety is authorized to issue
permits which will allow a vehicle to be parked on a street that has been
designated as a street where a vehicle can be parked only if it displays a
permit.
         b.   The Superintendent of Public Safety is directed to develop and
authorized to issue and enforce rules and regulations for the issuance of
permits that will allow a vehicle to be parked on a street where parking is
limited to vehicles which display a permit.
         c.   The rules and regulations shall be designed so as to provide that
permits to park on the street are issued primarily to Village officials and
other persons for whom it is regularly necessary and convenient to be able to
park on the street for periods of time not exceeding three (3) hours in order
to transact business relating to the Village. The rules and regulations shall
not provide for the issuance of permits for the primary purpose of allowing a
person who is not a Village officer or employee to avoid having to pay a fee to
park in a garage, parking lot or other parking structure.
      4.   Penalties:
         a.   Fine: The owner and operator of a parked motor vehicle which does
not display a required permit and is parked on a street at a location where
parking is allowed only if a permit is displayed shall, upon conviction, be
jointly and severally subject to being fined up to twenty five dollars ($25.00)
for each one hour period or portion thereof that the motor vehicle was parked
on the street.
         b.   Towing Vehicle: In addition to any penalty or fine to which the
owner or operator of the motor vehicle may be subject, if a motor vehicle is
parked in violation of the permit parking requirements contained in this
subsection or any rules or regulations issued pursuant to this subsection for a
period of more than two (2) hours, the motor vehicle shall be subject to being
towed or otherwise relocated at the sole risk and expense of the owner or
operator of the vehicle. The owner and operator of the motor vehicle towed
pursuant to this subsection shall be jointly and severally liable for the
payment of any towing fees which may be incurred.
(Ord. 2001-8-1D, 8-1-2001)
8-5-4: PARKING IN SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   1. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
properly displaying registration plates or digital registration plates or
decals issued to a “person with disabilities”, as defined by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-159.1, pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-
616, 5/11-1301.1 or 5/11-1301.2, or to a disabled veteran pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-609, as evidence that the vehicle is operated by
or for a person with disabilities or a disabled veteran, in any parking place,
including any private or public off street parking facility, specifically
reserved by the posting of an official sign as designated under 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-301 for motor vehicles displaying such registration
plates. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a designated access
aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically reserved for persons with
disabilities by the posting of an official sign as designated under 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-301 for motor vehicles displaying such
registration plates. When using the parking privileges for persons with
disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed properly in the
vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement personnel, either
hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard of the vehicle in
clear view. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a disability license plate or
a parking decal or device containing the international symbol of access issued
to persons with disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory
or foreign country shall be recognized as a valid license plate or device and
receive the same parking privileges as residents of Illinois.
      2.   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates or
digital registration plates or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified
person with a disability under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-616, 5/11-
1301.1, or 5/11-1301.2 or to a disabled veteran under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-609 is in violation of this subsection if: a) the person using the
disability license plate or parking decal or device is not the authorized
holder of the disability license plate or parking decal or device or is not
transporting the authorized holder of the disability license plate or parking
decal or device to or from the parking location; and b) the person uses the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to exercise any privileges
granted through the disability license plate or parking decal or device under
this Code or the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 2006-2-1F, 2-1-2006)
   B.   1. Any person or municipality owning or operating any public or private
off street parking facility may, after notifying the Department of Public
Safety, remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of
safety any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by the
physically handicapped which does not display handicapped registration plates,
digital registration plates, or decals as required under subsection A of this
section.
      2.   The Village may remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage
or other place of safety any vehicle which does not display the registration
plates, digital registration plates or decals as specified parked within a
stall or space on a public street reserved for use by persons with
disabilities.
      3.   No vehicle shall be removed or caused to be removed as set forth
herein from a public street unless such parking space is marked with an
appropriate sign setting forth that improperly parked vehicles may be towed
from such parking space.
(Ord. 85-3-6C, 3-6-1985)
8-5-5: PARKING DURING SNOWFALL:
   A.   Parking Prohibited: No person shall park any vehicle on any street or
alley in the Village for a period of more than five (5) minutes if there has
been a snowfall with an accumulation of greater than three inches (3") during
the preceding forty eight (48) hours.
   B.   Signs Posted: The Public Works Department is authorized and directed to
post signs which are intended to inform persons entering the Village that
vehicles parked on Village streets and alleys are subject to being towed if
there has been a snowfall of more than three inches (3") during the previous
forty eight (48) hours.
   C.   Impoundment And Towing Of Vehicle:
      1.   The Public Safety Department is authorized to impound and cause to
be towed by a towing service any vehicle which is parked in violation of
subsection A of this section.
      2.   The provisions of chapter 9 of this title relating to the towing and
disposition of inoperable motor vehicles shall be applicable to vehicles towed
pursuant to this section.
   D.   Fine And Costs: Any person who violates subsection A of this section
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation. This fine shall be levied in addition to any towing and storage
charges that may have been incurred.
(Ord. 79-12-19B, 12-19-1979)
8-5-6: FIRE LANES:
   A.   Designation; Signs Posted: All privately owned alleys, streets and
driveways less than twenty feet (20') in width located on property used for
industrial or commercial purposes or located adjacent to or on the same lot as
a multi-family residential building containing four (4) or more dwelling units
are hereby designated as fire lanes. For purposes of this section, the width of
an alley, street or driveway shall be measured at its narrowest point from the
edge of the pavement to the edge of the pavement or, if unpaved, from the edge
of the driving surface to the edge of the driving surface.
(Ord. 88-10-5F, 10-5-1988)
   B.   Parking Prohibited: No vehicle shall be parked or stopped in a
designated fire lane except for an “authorized emergency vehicle” as defined by
the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
   C.   Signs Posted:
      1.   The owner of the premises on which a fire lane is located shall post
and maintain, or cause to be posted and maintained, signs along the curbs and
sides of the fire lane which state “Fire Lane/No Parking/No Stopping/At Any
Time”.
      2.   The signs shall be erected or placed along each curb or side of the
fire lane at least once each fifty feet (50').
      3.   The signs shall be not less than twelve inches by eighteen inches
(12" x 18") and shall have white lettering on a red background or shall be of
such other size and design as approved by the Deputy Chief of the Bureau of
Fire Suppression of the Village Public Safety Department.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each violation.
For purposes of this section, a separate and distinct violation of subsection B
of this section shall occur for each thirty (30) minute period or part thereof
during which a vehicle is parked or stopped in violation of said subsection B,
and a separate and distinct violation of subsection C of this section shall
occur on each day or part thereof that signs are not erected or maintained in
violation of said subsections C.
(Ord. 88-3-2H, 3-2-1988)
8-5-7: COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING AND STORAGE:
   A.   Definition: Whenever the term “commercial vehicle” is used in this
section, it shall be construed to include all trucks, trailers, semitrailers
and motor coaches which are designated for use and equipped for carrying goods,
freight, wares, merchandise or more than seven (7) passengers.
(1971 Code § 21-48)
   B.   Restricted Parking:
      1.   No person shall park any commercial vehicle on or upon any street,
alley or public way within the Village limits between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      2.   Any commercial vehicle may park on such streets, alleys or public
ways for the purpose of loading or unloading during such hours for a period of
time not to exceed thirty (30) minutes.
(1971 Code § 21-51)
   C.   Storage Of Commercial Vehicle: No person shall park or store any truck,
trailer, bus or other commercial vehicle on any premises within the Village
which is zoned for commercial or residential use unless such truck, trailer,
bus or other commercial vehicle is housed in a garage or other structure.
(1971 Code § 21-50)
8-5-8: PARKING DURING LOADING OR UNLOADING:
   A.   Parking may be permitted for reasonably expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, provided such loading or unloading shall not consume
more than five (5) minutes, or to stand any commercial vehicle for a period of
time longer than is necessary for the reasonably expeditious loading, unloading
and delivery or pick up of goods or materials, provided such loading, unloading
and delivery or pick up shall not consume more than thirty (30) minutes on any
street in the Village.
(1971 Code § 21-55)
   B.   During the times specified herein it shall be unlawful for the driver
of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3)
minutes, and for the driver to stand any freight carrying vehicle for a period
of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any of the following places:
      1.   Any public alley, during any hours of the day or night.
      2.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
      3.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on Sunday.
      4.   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open for business.
(1971 Code § 21-56)
8-5-9: PARKING LOTS:
8-5-9-1: MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS GENERALLY:
   A.   Signs Posted: The Director of Public Works, with the approval of the
Village Engineer and Village President, is hereby authorized to erect official
signs establishing the days and/or overnight hours during which it is unlawful
to park a motor vehicle in a Village owned parking structure or parking lot.
Such official signs establishing overnight parking restrictions shall be posted
in locations reasonably visible to vehicle drivers entering the restricted
parking structure or parking lot.
   B.   Exemptions: The restriction set forth in subsection A of this section
shall not apply to vehicles bearing parking permits issued by the Village
authorizing overnight parking of the motor vehicle in the Village parking
structure or parking lot, or to motor vehicles registered to the Village.
   C.   Parking Lots For Village Employees, Visitors And Commercial Property
Tenants:
      1.   The Director of Public Works, with the approval of the Mayor, is
authorized to erect official signs in Village owned and operated parking
structures or parking lots making it unlawful for persons other than: a)
Village employees and visitors; and b) Village commercial property tenants and
their guests and invitees to park a motor vehicle in such parking structure or
parking lot, or in specified areas of such parking structure or parking lot.
      2.   The restrictions may include, but are not limited to, the assignment
of parking spaces to Village employees and visitors and/or to commercial
tenants and their guests and invitees during specified hours and days, and/or
restricting parking to vehicles displaying Village issued parking passes.
      3.   The official signs establishing parking restrictions for Village
commercial property parking structures or parking lots shall be posted in
locations to reasonably advise vehicle drivers entering the restricted parking
structure or parking lot of the parking spaces or areas that are reserved for:
a) Village employees and visitors; or b) Village commercial property tenants
and their guests and invitees and, if applicable, the hours or days such
parking restrictions are in effect.
   F.   Violations:
      1.   Prima Facie Proof: Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in
violation of the provisions of this section, the person in whose name such
vehicle is registered shall be subject to and responsible for the penalty for
such violation.
      2.   Nuisance Declared; Impoundment Of Vehicle: A vehicle parked in a
Village owned parking structure or parking lot in violation of any of the
provisions of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance, which may be
abated by any public safety officer by impounding the vehicle and by removing
and conveying the vehicle, or by causing the vehicle to be removed and
conveyed, to a vehicle pound. A vehicle pound is hereby declared to be any
suitable place designated by the Public Safety Department as a vehicle pound.
The owner or operator of the vehicle may have the same removed from the vehicle
pound by paying the costs and expense of the towage or impounding the vehicle,
together with all fines and penalties, as provided in this title. In all cases
of violations referred to in this section, the right to impound shall be in
addition to any other remedy provided in this title or any other remedy
provided by law, and the registered owner of the vehicle at the time of the
violation shall be presumed to be the violator, as well as the vehicle itself,
and the actual operator thereof.
   G.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to a minimum fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and a maximum
fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2015-4-8V, 4-8-2015)
CHAPTER 6: PEDESTRIANS
Section
8-6-1:   Application Of Traffic Regulations
8-6-2:   Right-Of-Way
8-6-3:   Use Of Roadways
8-6-4:   Use Of Sidewalks
8-6-1: APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
At intersections where traffic is directed by a public safety officer or by a
stop and go signal, no pedestrian shall cross the roadway other than with
released traffic if such crossing interferes with the lawful movement of
traffic.
(1971 Code § 21-13)
8-6-2: RIGHT-OF-WAY:
   A.   No driver of any vehicle shall drive into any crosswalk without the
exercise of due and proper care in view of the special use made thereof by
pedestrians.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle into any crosswalk while there is in
the crosswalk upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling
any pedestrian engaged in crossing the roadway until the pedestrian shall have
passed beyond the path of the vehicle when the pedestrian shall indicate his
intention to cross.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at the crosswalk
for the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(1971 Code § 21-11)
8-6-3: USE OF ROADWAYS:
   A.   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the most
direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other than
a crosswalk, he shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety
zone if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
   C.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any vehicle.
(1971 Code § 21-12)
8-6-4: USE OF SIDEWALKS:
No pedestrian shall stand upon any sidewalk except as near as is reasonably
possible to the building line or curb line if such standing interferes with the
use of the sidewalk by other pedestrians.
(1971 Code § 21-14)
CHAPTER 7: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
Section
8-7-1:   Compliance With Provisions
8-7-2:   Definitions
8-7-3:   Clear Vision; Mirror
8-7-4:   Lights
8-7-5:   Brakes
8-7-6:   Tires; Nonskid Devices
8-7-7:   Horn And Warning Devices
8-7-8:   Noise And Emissions Control
8-7-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move on, upon or across, or for the
owner to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or across,
any highway any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding the
limitations stated in this chapter, including article A, or otherwise in
violation of this chapter, including article A.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, including article A, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DEPARTMENT: Department of Transportation of the State of Illinois acting
directly or through its duly authorized officers and agents.
LOCAL AUTHORITY: Every county, municipal and other local board or body having
authority to adopt local police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this State other than the corporate authorities of park districts.
MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSPORT: Any motor vehicle, singly or in lawful combination,
specially designed to transport other motor vehicles or bodies, commonly
referred to as a truckaway or haulaway operation and not including the
driveaway or towaway operations of a transporter.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Each firm lawfully licensed and engaged in any of the
following: the transmission of telephonic messages; the production, storage,
transmission, distribution, sale, delivery or furnishing of heat, cold, light,
power, electricity, gas or water; the disposal of sewage; the conveyance of oil
or gas by pipeline; the drilling of water wells; or the installation or repair
of facilities for any of the foregoing activities.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between boundary lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular traffic, other than public ways
for vehicular traffic, within a park district for which the park district has
maintenance responsibility, excepting the Chicago Park District.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7-3: CLEAR VISION; MIRROR:
No person shall operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a condition
that the operator does not have clear vision of all parts of the roadway
essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle that is so
constructed or loaded that the driver's view of the roadway to the rear is
obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to give him a view of
the roadway behind him.
(1971 Code § 21-37)
8-7-4: LIGHTS:
No person shall operate or park on any street any vehicle not equipped with
adequate lights conforming to the requirements of State law.
(1971 Code § 21-44)
8-7-5: BRAKES:
No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon any street unless such vehicle is
equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition, as required
by State law, or operate any vehicle which is so loaded so that the operator
does not have ready access to the mechanism operating the brakes of the
vehicle.
(1971 Code § 21-42)
8-7-6: TIRES; NONSKID DEVICES:
   A.   Tires: No person shall operate any motor vehicle on any street which is
not equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of State law.
(1971 Code § 21-46)
   B.   Nonskid Devices: No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any
street equipped with any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or
nonflexible portion thereof comes in contact with the pavement or roadway.
(1971 Code § 21-45)
8-7-7: HORN AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a
vehicle, but the horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger.
   B.   No motor vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle, shall be equipped
with a siren or gong signaling device.
(1971 Code § 21-39)
8-7-8: NOISE AND EMISSIONS CONTROL:
   A.   Mufflers; Use Of Cutout Prohibited: No motor vehicle shall be operated
on any street unless the vehicle is provided with a muffler in efficient actual
working condition. The use of a cutout is prohibited.
(1971 Code § 21-43)
   B.   Noisy Vehicles Prohibited: No person shall operate a vehicle on the
streets which makes unusually loud or raucous noises.
(1971 Code § 21-38)
   C.   Prohibited Emissions: No person shall operate any vehicle which emits
dense smoke or such an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the
health of persons or as to endanger the driver of other vehicles.
(1971 Code § 21-40)
   D.   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person to violate the
provisions of this section. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this section shall be fine not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-10-11D, 10-11-2017)
Cross-reference:
   See also section 7-7-8 of this Code
ARTICLE A: VEHICLE SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD
Section
8-7A-1:   Height
8-7A-2:   Length And Width; Projecting Loads
8-7A-3:   Vehicles Being Towed
8-7A-4:   Weight Limitations
8-7A-5:   Identification Of Second Division Vehicles
8-7A-6:   Truck Routes
8-7A-7:   Planking Edge Of Pavement
8-7A-8:   Spilling Loads
8-7A-9:   Officers To Weigh Vehicles; Removal Of Excess Loads Required
8-7A-10:   Exemptions
8-7A-11:   Violations; Penalties
8-7A-1: HEIGHT:
The height of a vehicle from the under side of the tire to the top of the
vehicle, inclusive of load, shall not exceed thirteen feet six inches (13'6").
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7A-2: LENGTH AND WIDTH; PROJECTING LOADS:
   A.   The maximum width of any vehicle and its load shall not exceed eight
feet (8') excepting loads of loose hay, straw, corn fodder, or similar farm
products, agricultural implements and threshing machines.
   B.   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the fenders on the right
side thereof.
   C.   No vehicle, empty or with a load, shall exceed a length of thirty five
feet (35') overall dimension. A truck-tractor and a semitrailer shall be
regarded as one vehicle for the purpose of determining length.
   D.   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than
two (2) units, and no such combination of vehicles, empty or with a load, shall
exceed the total length of forty feet (40'), but such length limitation shall
not apply to vehicles operated in the daytime when transporting poles, pipes,
machinery or other objects which cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such
vehicles operated at night by a public utility when engaged in emergency repair
work. Such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with sufficient
lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
   E.   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet (3')
in front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
(1971 Code § 21-41)
8-7A-3: VEHICLES BEING TOWED:
   A.   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby, and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
   B.   Outside a business, residential or suburban district or on any
controlled access highway, no vehicle other than a pole trailer or a
semitrailer which is being towed by a truck-tractor and is connected by the
means of a fifth wheel shall be towed on a roadway except by a drawbar, and
each such vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be coupled with two (2) safety
chains or cables to the towing vehicle. Such chains or cables shall be of
sufficient size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle parting from the
drawing vehicle in case the drawbar should break or become disengaged.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any second division
vehicle owned, operated or controlled by any person who is registered with the
Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety of the Federal Highway Administration and has
complied with the Federal safety provisions of the Bureau of Motor Carrier
Safety of the Federal Highway Administration and the rules and regulations of
the Bureau.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7A-4: WEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With State And County Laws: No person shall drive on any
State or County highway any motor vehicle with a weight, including load, in
excess of that permitted by the State or County traffic laws for driving on
improved State or County highways or with the weight distributed in a manner
not conforming to law.
(1971 Code § 21-47)
   B.   Wheel And Axle Loads And Gross Weights:
      1.   a. No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with pneumatic
tires shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon the highways of this State
when the gross weight on the road surface through any axle thereof exceeds
sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds; provided, that upon any street or highway
included in the system of State highways and constructed of concrete, brick on
a concrete base or asphalt on a concrete base, which the department designates
as adequate to carry such a maximum gross weight without undue deterioration or
which the department designates as obsolete and requiring reconstruction, or
upon any street in the Village, the gross weight on the road surface through
any axle may exceed sixteen thousand pounds (16,000) pounds but shall not
exceed eighteen thousand pounds (18,000) pounds per axle. No vehicle or
combination of vehicles equipped with other than pneumatic tires shall be
operated, unladen or with load, upon the highways of this State when the gross
weight on the road surface through any wheel thereof exceeds eight hundred
(800) pounds per inch width of tire tread or when the gross weight on the road
surface through any axle thereof exceeds sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds. An
"axle load" shall be defined as the total load transmitted to the road by all
wheels whose centers may be included between two (2) parallel transverse
vertical planes forty inches (40") apart extending across the full width of the
vehicle.
         b.   Any two (2) or more consecutive axles whose centers are more than
forty inches (40") and not more than seventy two inches (72") apart, measured
to the nearest inch between any two (2) adjacent axles in the series, shall be
defined as “tandem axles”, and the gross weight transmitted to the road surface
through such series shall not exceed thirty two thousand (32,000) pounds, and
no axle of the series shall exceed the maximum weight permitted under this
subsection for a single axle.
         c.   A truck specially equipped with a self-compactor and used
exclusively for garbage or refuse operations may, however, when laden with
garbage or refuse, transmit upon the road surface of any highway, except when
part of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways, a gross weight
upon a single axle not more than twenty two thousand (22,000) pounds and upon a
tandem axle not more than forty thousand (40,000) pounds. When unladen,
however, such trucks shall comply with the axle limitations applicable to all
other trucks.
      2.   The gross weight of vehicles and combination of vehicles, including
the weight of the vehicle or combination and its maximum load, shall be subject
to the foregoing limitations and further shall not exceed the following gross
weights dependent upon the number of axles and distance between extreme axles
of the vehicle or combination measured longitudinally to the nearest foot:
Vehicles having 2 axles: 36,000 pounds
   VEHICLES OR COMBINATIONS HAVING 3 AXLES
   With Tandem Axles                With Or Without Tandem Axles
Minimum Distance To                 Minimum Distance To
Nearest Foot        Maximum Gross   Nearest Foot Between Maximum Gross Weight
Between Extreme     Weight (Pounds) Extreme Axles        (Pounds)
Axles
   With Tandem Axles                With Or Without Tandem Axles
Minimum Distance To                 Minimum Distance To
Nearest Foot        Maximum Gross   Nearest Foot Between Maximum Gross Weight
Between Extreme     Weight (Pounds) Extreme Axles        (Pounds)
Axles
10 feet             41,000          15 feet              45,000
11 feet             42,000          16 feet              46,000
12 feet             43,000          17 feet              47,000
13 feet             44,000          18 feet              47,500
14 feet             45,000          19 feet              48,000
                                    20 feet              49,000
                                    21 feet or more      50,000
 
   VEHICLES OR COMBINATIONS HAVING 4 AXLES
   With Tandem Axles                With Or Without Tandem Axles
Minimum Distance To                 Minimum Distance To
Nearest Foot        Maximum Gross   Nearest Foot Between Maximum Gross Weight
Between Extreme     Weight (Pounds) Extreme Axles        (Pounds)
Axles
   With Tandem Axles                With Or Without Tandem Axles
Minimum Distance To                 Minimum Distance To
Nearest Foot        Maximum Gross   Nearest Foot Between Maximum Gross Weight
Between Extreme     Weight (Pounds) Extreme Axles        (Pounds)
Axles
15 feet             50,000          26 feet              57,500
16 feet             50,500          27 feet              58,000
17 feet             51,500          28 feet              58,500
18 feet             52,000          29 feet              59,500
19 feet             52,500          30 feet              60,000
20 feet             53,500          31 feet              60,500
21 feet             54,000          32 feet              61,500
22 feet             54,500          33 feet              62,000
23 feet             55,500          34 feet              62,500
24 feet             56,000          35 feet              63,500
25 feet             56,500          36 feet or more      64,000
 
   COMBINATIONS HAVING 5 OR MORE AXLES
 
Minimum Distance To Nearest Foot Between Extreme Maximum Gross Weight (Pounds)
Axles
42 feet or less                                  72,000
43 feet                                          73,000
44 feet or more                                  73,280
 
Vehicles operating or crawler type tracks: 40,000 pounds
   TRUCKS EQUIPPED WITH SELF-COMPACTORS
   FOR GARBAGE OR REFUSE HAULS ONLY
   On Highway Not Part of National System
   of Interstate and Defense Highways
 
With 2 axles 36,000 pounds
With 3 axles 54,000 pounds
 
      3.   Weight limitations shall not apply to vehicles (including loads)
operated by a public utility when transporting equipment required for emergency
repair of public utility facilities or properties or water wells nor to a
combination of vehicles consisting of a tow truck and a disabled vehicle or
vehicles when engaged in towing such disabled vehicle or vehicles from the
highway to the nearest qualified repair station; provided, that neither the
disabled vehicle, nor any vehicle being towed, nor the tow truck itself shall
exceed the weight limitations permitted under this subsection. However, nothing
in this subsection shall prohibit a tow truck, under instructions of a public
safety officer, from legally clearing a disabled vehicle that may be in
violation of weight limitations of this subsection from the roadway to the berm
or shoulder of the highway.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
      4.   No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with pneumatic tires
shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon the highways of the Village in
violation of the provisions of any permit issued under the provisions of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301 through 5/15-319.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982; amd. 2019 Code)
      5.   a. Notwithstanding any other provision in this subsection, the
weight limitations contained in this subsection B5 shall apply to the National
System of Interstate and Defense Highways and other highways in the system of
State highways that have been designated by the department. No vehicle shall be
operated on said highways with a weight in excess of twenty thousand (20,000)
pounds carried on any one axle, or with a tandem axle weight in excess of
thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds, or a gross weight in excess of eighty
thousand (80,0000) pounds for vehicle combinations of five (5) axles or more,
or a gross weight on a group of two (2) or more consecutive axles in excess of
that weight produced by the application of the following formula:
W = 500 times the sum of (LN divided by N-1) + 12N + 36 where “W” equals the
overall gross weight on any group of two (2) or more consecutive axles to the
nearest five hundred (500) pounds; “L” equals the distance measured to the
nearest foot between extremes of any group of two (2) or more consecutive
axles; and “N” equals the number of axles in the group under consideration;
except, that two (2) consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross load of
thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds each, provided the overall distance
between the first and last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is
thirty six feet (36') or more. Provided, also, that a three (3) axle vehicle
manufactured prior to the model year of 1984, and first registered in Illinois
prior to January 1, 1985, with a distance greater than seventy two inches (72")
but not more than ninety six inches (96") between the two (2) rear axles may
transmit to the road surface a maximum weight of eighteen thousand (18,000)
pounds on each of the two (2) rear axles. Any such vehicle manufactured in the
model year of 1984 or thereafter or first registered in Illinois after December
31, 1984, may transmit to the road surface a maximum of thirty four thousand
(34,000) pounds through the two (2) rear axles, and neither of the rear axles
shall exceed twenty thousand (20,000) pounds. For purposes of this subsection
B5, "tandem axles" shall be defined as any two (2) or more single axles whose
centers are more then forty inches (40") and not more than ninety six inches
(96") apart, measured to the nearest inch between extreme axles in the series.
         b.   The formula described in subsection B5a of this section when
expressed in tabular form results in allowable loads as follows:
Distance Measured To    Maximum Load In Pounds Carried On Any Group Of 2 Or
The Nearest Foot        More Consecutive Axles
Between The Extremes Of
Any Group Of 2 Or More  2 Axles 3 Axles 4 Axles 5 Axles 6 Axles
Consecutive Axles
Distance Measured To    Maximum Load In Pounds Carried On Any Group Of 2 Or
The Nearest Foot        More Consecutive Axles
Between The Extremes Of
Any Group Of 2 Or More  2 Axles 3 Axles 4 Axles 5 Axles 6 Axles
Consecutive Axles
4                       34,000                        
5                       34,000                        
6                       34,000                        
7                       34,000                        
8                       34,000  42,000                 
9                       39,000  42,500                 
10                      40,000  43,500                 
11                             44,000                 
12                             45,000  50,000          
13                             45,500  50,500          
14                             46,500  51,500          
15                             47,000  52,000          
16                             48,000  52,500  58,000   
17                             48,500  53,500  58,500   
18                             49,500  54,000  59,000   
19                             50,000  54,500  60,000   
20                             51,000  55,500  60,500  66,000
21                             51,500  56,000  61,000  66,500
22                             52,500  56,500  61,500  67,000
23                             53,000  57,500  62,500  68,000
24                             54,000  58,000  63,000  68,500
25                             54,500  58,500  64,500  69,000
26                             55,500  59,500  65,000  69,500
27                             56,000  60,000  65,000  70,000
28                             57,000  60,500  65,500  71,000
29                             57,500  61,500  66,000  71,500
30                             58,500  62,000  66,500  72,000
31                             59,000  62,500  67,500  72,500
32                             60,000  63,500  68,000  73,000
33                                    64,000  68,500  74,000
34                                    65,500  69,000  74,500
35                                    65,500  70,000  75,000
36                                    66,000  70,500  75,500
37                                    66,500  71,000  76,000
38                                    67,500  72,000  77,000
39                                    68,000  72,500  77,500
40                                    68,500  73,000  78,000
41                                    69,500  73,500  78,500
42                                    70,000  74,000  79,000
43                                    70,500  75,000  80,000
44                                    71,500  75,500   
45                                    72,000  76,000   
46                                    72,500  76,500   
47                                    73,500  77,500   
48                                    74,000  78,000   
49                                    74,500  78,500   
50                                    75,500  79,000   
51                                    76,000  80,000   
52                                    76,500          
53                                    77,500          
54                                    78,000          
55                                    78,500          
56                                    79,500          
57                                    80,000          
 
         c.   In applying the above formula to a vehicle having more than four
(4) axles which is not a combination, only four (4) axles shall be considered
in determining the maximum gross weight.
         d.   Notwithstanding the above table, two (2) consecutive sets of
tandem axles may carry a gross weight of thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds
each if the overall distance between the first and last axles of such
consecutive sets of tandem axles is thirty six feet (36') or more.
         e.   Combinations of vehicles, which include a semitrailer
manufactured prior to the model year of 1984 and first registered in Illinois
prior to January 1, 1985, having five (5) axles with a distance of forty two
feet (42') or less between extreme axles may have a gross weight on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways and the highways in the
system of State highways designated by the department of seventy two thousand
(72,000) pounds, provided the weight shall not exceed eighteen thousand
(18,000) pounds on any single axle nor thirty two thousand (32,000) pounds on
any tandem axle. All such combinations of vehicles which include a semitrailer
manufactured in the model year of 1984 or thereafter or first registered in
Illinois after December 31, 1984, or which has had its cargo container replaced
in its entirety after December 31, 1984, are limited to the gross weight
allowed by the above formula.
         f.   Vehicles operating under this subsection B5 shall have access for
a distance of five (5) highway miles on a street or highway included in the
system of State highways to points of loading and unloading and to facilities
for food, fuel, repairs and rest.
(Ord. 86-5-7C, 5-7-1986)
8-7A-5: IDENTIFICATION OF SECOND DIVISION VEHICLES:
   A.   Identification Required: No second division vehicle, other than a
second division vehicle having a gross weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds
or less, which is used by the owner or a member of his immediate family solely
for personal use, other than farm tractors, farm machinery and implements, farm
wagons, wagon-trailers or like vehicles used primarily in agricultural
pursuits, vehicles licensed by the Secretary of State as a recreational vehicle
and all vehicles registered in another state, which if titled in this State
would qualify for such recreational plate, house trailers, trailers designed to
carry a single watercraft or vehicles owned by licensed vehicle dealers and
manufacturers while used for demonstration or delivery purposes, may be
operated upon the highways of the Village unless there is painted or otherwise
firmly affixed to the vehicle on both sides thereof, in a color or colors
vividly contrasting to the color of the vehicle, the name and address of the
owner and the certificate or permit number of the vehicle, if any.
   B.   Specifications: The size of the letters must be at least two inches
(2") high, and the stroke of the brush must be at least one-half inch (1/2")
wide.
   C.   Waiver Of Requirements: The department may, upon application, waive the
requirements of the address on such a vehicle when there is painted or
otherwise firmly affixed to the vehicle a seal or trademark sufficiently well
known to clearly identify the owner of the vehicle.
   D.   Removal Of Previous Identification Information: Any person acquiring a
second division vehicle bearing the name, trademark or other identification of
the previous owner shall obliterate such name, trademark or other
identification.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7A-6: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The Superintendent of Public Safety shall be
and hereby is authorized to designate those streets under the jurisdiction of
the Village on which trucks and other commercial vehicles which have a gross
weight, including vehicle and load, of greater than eight thousand one (8,001)
pounds are prohibited from operating.
   B.   Signs Posted: The Director of Public Works shall be and hereby is
authorized to have signs erected at all appropriate locations where a street
has been designated by the Superintendent of Public Safety as a street on which
trucks and other commercial vehicles having a gross weight, including vehicle
and load, of eight thousand one (8,001) pounds or greater are prohibited from
operating.
(Ord. 95-12-6B, 12-6-1995)
8-7A-7: PLANKING EDGE OF PAVEMENT:
No tractor, traction engine or other metal tired vehicle weighing more then
four (4) tons, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall drive up
onto, off or over the edge of any paved public highway in the Village without
protecting the edge by putting down solid planks or other suitable device to
prevent the vehicle from breaking off the edges or corners of the pavement.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7A-8: SPILLING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; except, that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load unless
the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent the
covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7A-9: OFFICERS TO WEIGH VEHICLES; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOADS REQUIRED:
   A.   Any public safety officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and load is unlawful shall require the driver to stop and submit to a
weighing of the same either by means of a portable or stationary scales. If
such scales are not available at the place where such vehicle is stopped, the
public safety officer shall require that the vehicle be driven to the nearest
available scale that has been tested and approved by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
   B.   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and the load, determines
that the weight is unlawful, the officer shall require the driver to stop the
vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load
is removed as may be necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit
permitted under this article, or to the limit permitted under the terms of a
permit issued pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301 through 5/15-
318 and shall forthwith arrest the driver or owner. All materials so unloaded
shall be cared for by the owner or operator of the vehicle at the risk of such
owner or operator.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Whenever any axle load of a vehicle exceeds the weight limits permitted
by subsection
8-7A-4B1 of this article by two thousand (2,000) pounds or less, the owner or
operator of the vehicle must shift or remove the excess so as to comply with
subsection
8-7A-4B1 of this article. Whenever the gross weight of a vehicle exceeds the
weight limits of subsection
8-7A-4B2 of this article by two thousand (2,000) pounds or less, the owner or
operator of the vehicle must remove the excess. In either case, no arrest
ticket shall be issued to the owner or operator of the vehicle by any officer
if the excess weight is either shifted or removed as required by this
subsection.
   D.   Whenever an axle load of a vehicle exceeds axle weight limits allowed
by the provisions of a permit, an arrest ticket shall be issued, but the owner
or operator of the vehicle may shift the load so as to comply with the
provisions of the permit. Where such shifting of a load to comply with the
permit is accomplished, the owner or operator of the vehicle may then proceed.
   E.   Any driver of a vehicle who refuses to stop and submit his vehicle and
load to weighing after being directed to do so by an officer, or removes or
causes the removal of the load or part of it prior to weighing, is guilty of a
business offense and shall be fined not less than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7A-10: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this article governing size, weight and load do not apply to
fire apparatus or equipment for snow and ice removal operations owned or
operated by any governmental body or to a vehicle operated under the terms of a
special permit issued under this article.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
8-7A-11: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of
subsection
8-7A-4B of this article, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of such violation, and either the owner or the driver of the vehicle may
be prosecuted for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of
any violation of subsection
8-7A-4B of this article shall be fined in an amount equal to six cents ($0.06)
per pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds two thousand (2,000) pounds
and is three thousand (3,000) pounds or less; eight cents ($0.08) per pound for
each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds three thousand (3,000)
pounds and is four thousand (4,000) pounds or less; ten cents ($0.10) per pound
for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds four thousand (4,000)
pounds and is five thousand (5,000) pounds or less and twelve cents ($0.12) per
pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds five thousand
(5,000) pounds.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982)
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a
permit issued under the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301
through 5/15-319 by operating under a fraudulent permit or under a permit not
specifically covering the move, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be
deemed guilty of a business offense, and either the owner or the driver of such
vehicle may be prosecuted for the violation. When any person, firm or
corporation is convicted of such violation, the permit shall be null and void,
and the person, firm or corporation shall be fined in an amount not less than
ten cents ($0.10) per pound for each pound the gross weight of the vehicle
exceeds the gross weight of such vehicles allowable under subsection 8-7A-4B of
this article.
   C.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a
permit issued under the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301
through 5/13-319 by operating with axle weights in excess of those authorized
in such permit, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a
business offense, and either the owner or the driver of the vehicle may be
prosecuted for the violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of such
violation shall be fined in an amount not less than two cents ($0.02) nor more
than five cents ($0.05) per pound for each pound of excess weight on such axle
or tandem axle in excess of the weight authorized In the permit when the excess
is one thousand (1,000) pounds or less; not less than five cents ($0.05) nor
more than ten cents ($0.10) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the
excess exceeds one thousand (1,000) pounds and is two thousand (2,000) pounds
or less; not less than ten cents ($0.10) nor more than fifteen cents ($0.15)
per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds two thousand
(2,000) pounds and is three thousand (3,000) pounds or less; and not less than
fifteen cents ($0.15) nor more than twenty cents ($0.20) per pound for each
pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds three thousand (3,000) pounds.
   D.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a
permit issued under the provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301
through 5/15-319 by operating with the gross weight in excess of that
authorized in the permit, the owner or driver of the vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of a business offense, and either the owner or the driver of the vehicle
may be prosecuted for the violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted
of such violation shall be fined in an amount not less than two cents ($0.02)
nor more than five cents ($0.05) per pound for each pound of excess weight in
excess of the gross weight authorized in the permit when the excess is one
thousand (1,000) pounds or less; not less than four cents ($0.04) nor more than
seven cents ($0.07) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess
exceeds one thousand (1,000) pounds and is two thousand (2,000) pounds or less;
not less than seven cents ($0.07) nor more than ten cents ($0.10) per pound for
each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds two thousand (2,000) pounds
and is three thousand (3,000) pounds or less; not less than ten cents ($0.10)
nor more than fifteen cents ($0.15) per pound for each pound of excess weight
when the excess exceeds three thousand (3,000) pounds and is four thousand
(4,000) pounds or less; not less than fifteen cents ($0.15) nor more than
twenty cents ($0.20) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess
exceeds four thousand (4,000) pounds and is five thousand (5,000) pounds or
less; and not less than seventeen cents ($0.17) nor more than twenty five cents
($0.25) per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds five
thousand (5,000) pounds.
(Ord. 82-1-6A, 1-6-1982; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 8: MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS AND SCOOTERS
Section
8-8-1:   Definitions
8-8-2:   Operation On Property Of Others
8-8-3:   Operation On Public Ways And Property
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
MOTORIZED SCOOTER: A scooter which has a motor attached thereto.
MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD: A skateboard which has a small motor attached thereto.
SCOOTER: A board which has small wheels attached and also has a perpendicular
pole or similar extension attached thereto which is used to steer and/or as a
hand rest.
SKATEBOARD: A board that has a small wheels attached thereto.
(Ord. 2002-4-3M, 4-3-2002)
8-8-2: OPERATION ON PROPERTY OF OTHERS:
It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to use or
operate any motorized skateboard or motorized scooter on the private property
of another person, which shall include property of the Village, not open to the
public without first obtaining the permission of the owner of such property.
(Ord. 2002-4-3M, 4-3-2002)
8-8-3: OPERATION ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate or ride on a motorized skateboard or
motorized scooter in the public streets, upon the public sidewalks, within a
public right-of-way or within a parking lot or parking structure owned, leased
or operated by the Village.
   B.   No person shall operate or ride on a motorized skateboard or motorized
scooter upon any parking lot or within a parking structure which is owned,
leased or operated by the Village.
   C.   The restrictions contained in subsections A and B of this section shall
not be applicable to persons who operate or ride on a motorized skateboard or a
motorized scooter in connection with an event such as a parade or a block party
for which a permit has been issued or which has otherwise been approved or
authorized by the Village.
(Ord. 2002-4-3M, 4-3-2002)
CHAPTER 9: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
8-9-1:   Definitions
8-9-2:   Nuisance Declared
8-9-3:   Removal Or Towing Of Inoperable Vehicle
8-9-4:   Sale Of Vehicle; Proceeds
8-9-5:   Unsold Vehicles
8-9-6:   Exemptions From Provisions
8-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the term INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor
vehicle from which, for a period of at least six (6) months, the engine, wheels
or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts
have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power. The term INOPERABLE MOTOR
VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily
incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform
ordinary service or repair operations.
(1971 Code § 21-69)
8-9-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any inoperable motor vehicle parked on either private or public property shall
be a nuisance.
(1971 Code § 21-71)
8-9-3: REMOVAL OR TOWING OF INOPERABLE VEHICLE:
   A.   Removal: It shall be the duty of the Department of Public Safety to
cause any inoperable motor vehicle declared to be a nuisance to be removed and
conveyed by, or under the direction of, a member of the Department of Public
Safety to a vehicle pound.
(1971 Code § 21-72)
   B.   Towing: The Department of Public Safety shall make provisions with some
garage or some other agency for the purpose of providing towing of such
inoperable motor vehicle and carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
(1971 Code § 21-73)
   C.   Notice Of Removal Or Tow: Whenever the Department of Public Safety has
impounded or relocated any inoperable motor vehicle, the department shall
ascertain the address of the owner thereof and shall give, or cause to be
given, written notice to the owner of the fact of such removal and impounding,
the reason therefor and the place to which the vehicle has been removed.
(1971 Code § 21-74)
   D.   Costs: The owner of any impounded vehicle, or his duly authorized
agent, may, upon presentation of the notice to the person in charge of the
pound, reclaim the possession of the motor vehicle upon the payment of the fee
as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1L of this Code,
which covers the cost of impounding and towing and, in addition thereto, any
storage charges incurred.
(1971 Code § 21-75; amd. 2019 Code)
8-9-4: SALE OF VEHICLE; PROCEEDS:
   A.   Sale Of Vehicle: Whenever any vehicle so impounded shall remain
unclaimed by the owner or other person legally entitled to possession thereof
for a period of thirty (30) days and after notice shall have been given, it
shall be the duty of the Department of Public Safety to sell such vehicle at
public auction to the highest bidder, the time and place of the sale to be
published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the area, such
publication to be not less than ten (10) nor more than fifteen (15) days from
expiration of the thirty (30) days. The department shall also cause a notice of
the sale to be mailed to the Secretary of State.
(1971 Code § 21-76)
   B.   Disposition Of Proceeds: The proceeds of the sale, after paying all
liens and deducting all reasonable charges and expenses incurred, shall be
deposited with the Finance Director.
(1971 Code § 21-77)
8-9-5:    UNSOLD VEHICLES:
Whenever any inoperable motor vehicle shall remain unsold for a period of
ninety (90) days, such vehicle may be used by any department of the Village, or
other governmental agency desiring the same, or it may be removed and
dismantled.
(1971 Code § 21-78)
8-9-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall apply to:
   A.   Any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use;
   B.   Historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age; or
   C.   A motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in the
wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
(1971 Code § 21-70)
TITLE 9: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
9-1-1:   Obstructing Public Ways
9-1-2:   Moving Buildings
9-1-3:   Fastening Animals To, Damaging Public Ways And Property
9-1-4:   Placing Ashes, Yard Waste Dirt And Rubbish In Public Ways
9-1-1: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Building Materials; Excavations:
      1.   Permit Required: Any person who shall encumber or obstruct, or cause
to be encumbered or obstructed, any street, alley, or other public place in the
Village by placing therein or thereon any building materials, or any other
material or thing whatsoever, or by digging or excavating in any such street,
alley, or other public place without first having obtained written permission
from the Village President or the Village Board of Trustees shall be subject to
a penalty of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a further penalty
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each day or part of a day such
encumbrance or obstruction shall continue.
(1971 Code § 19-1)
      2.   Removal Of Obstruction:
         a.   The Director of Public Works, and each of them, are hereby
authorized to order any article or thing whatsoever which may encumber or
obstruct any street, alley or other public place within the Village to be
removed.
         b.   If such article or thing shall not be removed within six (6)
hours after notice to the owner or person in charge thereof to remove the same,
or if the owner cannot be readily found for the purpose of the notice, to cause
the article or thing to be removed to some suitable place, to be designated by
the Director of Public Works.
         c.   The owner of any article so removed shall forfeit a penalty of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) in addition to the cost of such removal.
(1971 Code § 19-2)
      3.   Disposal Of Obstruction: Any article or thing which may be removed
in accordance with the subsection A2 of this section shall be advertised for
ten (10) days and sold by the Director of Public Works, unless the same shall
be sooner reclaimed and the penalty and costs paid by the owner thereof. The
proceeds of the sale shall be placed into the Village Treasury, and the
balance, if any, after deducting the penalty and costs, shall be paid to any
person furnishing satisfactory proof of ownership.
(1971 Code § 19-3)
   B.   Buildings; Fences; Steps:
      1.   Prohibited: No person shall erect or place any building, in whole or
in part, upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground within the Village
under a penalty not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
(1971 Code § 19-6)
      2.   Removal Required; Notice: The owner of any building, fence, porch,
steps, gallery or other obstruction now standing or which may hereafter be
erected or placed upon any street, alley sidewalk or public ground within the
Village, or which may be left standing upon any new street that has been or may
hereafter be opened, shall remove the same within such reasonable time, not
exceeding thirty (30) days, as he shall be required to do so by a notice,
signed by the Director of Public Works under a penalty of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), and a further penalty of not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for every ten (10) days the same shall so remain.
(1971 Code § 19-7)
      3.   Failure To Remove; Nuisance Declared; Removal By Village:
         a.   Whenever the owner of any building, fence or other obstruction
upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground in the Village shall refuse
or neglect to remove the same after notice, as prescribed in subsection B2 of
this section, or without notice if the owner cannot be readily found for the
purpose of such notice, the same shall be deemed a nuisance, and it shall be
lawful for the Director of Public Works or the Village President, and it is
hereby made his duty, to cause the same to be removed or taken down, in his
discretion, and the expense thereof shall be recoverable from the owner in an
action of assumpsit.
         b.   Every person who shall oppose or resist the execution of the
order of the Director of Public Works in the premises shall forfeit a penalty
of not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1971 Code § 19-8)
9-1-2: MOVING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: No person shall remove or cause to be
removed, or aid and assist in removing, any building into, along or across any
street, alley or public ground in the Village without first obtaining written
permission from the Village President or from the Village Board of Trustees and
conforming to such rules, regulations, requirements, restrictions and
conditions as they or he may prescribe.
(1971 Code § 19-4)
   B.   Issuance Of Permit: The Director of Building and Code Enforcement shall
issue permits for the removal of buildings in pursuance of the order of the
Board of Trustees or the President therefor, and upon the terms and conditions
therein specified.
(1971 Code § 19-13)
   C.   Time Limit For Removal: Either the owner of any building or the
contractor for its removal, or both, who suffer the same to remain or be in any
of the streets or alleys or upon any of the public grounds of the Village for
any time longer than may be specified in the permission of the Board of
Trustees or the President, shall forfeit a penalty of not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) ,
and the building shall be deemed a nuisance and be proceeded against as
provided in subsection 9-1-1B3 of this chapter.
(1971 Code § 19-5)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to a
penalty not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), to be recovered from the owner of the building
or any person aiding or directing in its removal, and a like penalty for every
twenty four (24) hours the same shall remain in or upon any street, alley or
public ground.
(1971 Code § 19-4)
9-1-3: FASTENING ANIMALS TO, DAMAGING PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
No person shall fasten any animal to, or injure any fence, railing, ornamental
or shade tree or shrub in or upon any public ground, street, or other public
place in the Village under a penalty of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(1971 Code § 19-12)
9-1-4: PLACING ASHES, YARD WASTE AND RUBBISH IN PUBLIC WAYS:
No person shall place any ashes, yard waste or other rubbish, though not
offensive to health, in any street or alley in the Village under a penalty not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a like penalty for every day the same
shall suffer to remain after notice given by any officer or agent of the
Village to remove the same.
(1971 Code § 19-10)
CHAPTER 2: CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
ARTICLE A: UTILITY FACILITIES
Section
9-2A-1:   Purpose; Intent; Scope; Interpretation
9-2A-2:   Definitions
9-2A-3:   Annual Registration Required
9-2A-4:   Permit Requirements
9-2A-4-1:   Permit Required; Exemptions
9-2A-4-2:   Application For Permit
9-2A-4-3:   Action On Application
9-2A-4-4:   Effect Of Permit
9-2A-4-5:   Revised Permit Drawings
9-2A-4-6:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
9-2A-5:   Insurance; Indemnity; Security
9-2A-6:   Change Of Ownership, Identity Or Legal Status
9-2A-7:   General Construction Standards
9-2A-8:   Traffic Control
9-2A-9:   Location Of Facilities
9-2A-10:   Construction Methods And Materials
9-2A-11:   Vegetation Control
9-2A-12:   Removal, Relocation Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
9-2A-13:   Cleanup And Restoration
9-2A-14:   Maintenance And Repairs
9-2A-15:   Variances
9-2A-16:   Penalties
9-2A-1: PURPOSE; INTENT; SCOPE; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the Village’s
jurisdiction which will provide public benefit consistent with the preservation
of the integrity, safe usage, public safety, and visual qualities of the
Village rights- of-way and the Village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this article, the Village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the Village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utility facilities including, without
limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the Village residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way;
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations; and
      10.   Maintain public safety and safe traffic control in a manner that
takes into account high traffic counts and the Village's unique location next
to one of the world's busiest airports.
   C.   Scope: This article applies to all facilities on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way within the jurisdiction
of the Village. A facility lawfully established prior to the effective date
hereof may continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as
presently constructed and located, except as may be otherwise provided in any
applicable franchise, license or similar agreement. This article shall not
apply to any facilities constructed by others to be owned by the Village.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   The Village, in its discretion and as limited by law, may require
utilities to enter into a franchise, license or similar agreement for the
privilege of locating their facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across, or within the Village rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by
law to enter into such an agreement may request that the Village enter into
such an agreement. In such an agreement, the Village may provide for terms and
conditions inconsistent with this article.
      2.   In the event that a utility other than a telecommunications provider
has a franchise, license or similar agreement with the Village, such franchise,
license or similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such
agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      3.   In the event of any conflict with or inconsistency between the
provisions of this article and the provisions of any franchise, license or
similar agreement between the Village and any telecommunications provider, the
provisions of such franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and
control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension
thereof.
   E.   Conflicting Provisions:
      1.   This article supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances
adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith to the extent of such
conflict.
      2.   In the event that applicable Federal or State laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this article, the utility shall comply with
the requirements of this article to the maximum extent possible without
violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
   F.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The Village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this article and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this article when the Village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois Administrative Code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE: An existing pole or other structure within the
public right- of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a
utility pole or Village owned infrastructure.
ANTENNA: Any equipment, device, or similar item designed for transmitting
signals to a receiving station or for receiving television, radio, data, or
other signals from satellites or other sources.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this article.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear runout area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design Guide.
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the Village of Rosemont and ordinances enacted by
the Village of Rosemont.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of a
right-of-way.
DIRECTIONAL BORING: Jetting.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The Director of the Village of Rosemont Department of
Public Works, or his/her designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any work that obstructs the right-of-way or causes an
adverse effect on the ability of persons, other companies with facilities in
the right-of-way, or vehicles to use the right- of-way for its intended use or
which may damage, destroy or injure vegetation in the right-of-way. Such work
shall include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting;
placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or
structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, but
shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does
not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a road.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The Village Engineer or his designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including track and
rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, communications and video cables and
wires, poles, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances
thereto) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-
of-way under this article, except those owned by the Village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where access to the land is precluded by control of access on the
highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Director of Public Works or the Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and
imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the
ecological balance of the environment including, but not limited to,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or
regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land and
improvements including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicular traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) pursuant to
the Illinois Cable and Video Competition Law (220 ILCS 5/21-401).
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
ICC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
JULIE: The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial roads.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under rights-of-way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right- of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
9-2A-4-1 ,
9-2A-4-2  and
9-2A-4-3  of this article.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: Commercial mobile telecommunications services,
unlicensed wireless telecommunications services, and common carrier wireless
telecommunications exchange access services.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES ANTENNA: An antenna used in connection with the
provision of personal wireless services.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radically against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the Village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at the local, State or Federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway dedicated or commonly
used for roadway or utility purposes including utility easements in which the
Village has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the
location of facilities other than those of the Village. RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not
include any real or personal Village property that is not specifically
described in this definition and shall not include Village buildings, fixtures,
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right-of-way.
ROADWAY: That part of the right-of-way that includes the pavement and
shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to subsection 9-2A-5C
of this article.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS:
   A.   Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information transmitted
through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service, channel services,
telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange service, private
line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any other transmission of
messages or information by electronic or similar means, between or among points
of wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite, or similar
facilities.
   B.   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall
also include “wireless telecommunications” as defined in the Illinois
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act (35 ILCS 635/1 et seq.)
   C.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include:
      1.   Value added services in which computer processing applications are
used to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for
purposes other than transmission.
      2.   Purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service
provider for use as a component part of the service provided by him or her to
the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end
communications. Retailer access charges, right of access charges, charges for
use of intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the
subsequent provision and used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-
end telecommunications service shall not be included in gross charges as sales
for resale.
      3.   The provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC sections 521 and following), as
now or hereafter amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an
open video system fee payable to the Village through an open video system as
defined in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 CDF 76.1550
and following), as now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the public right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as defined
in this article.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The Village of Rosemont, Illinois.
VILLAGE’S DESIGN MANUAL: The Village of Rosemont’s construction specifications
and requirements embodied in a booklet or manual.
VILLAGE OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure in the public right-of-way within
the Village that is owned, operated or maintained by the Village including,
without limitation, streetlights, traffic signals, towers, structures or
buildings.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies a right-of-way within the Village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, or designee,
providing the utility’s name, address and regular business telephone, e-mail
address and telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can
act on behalf of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the
utility’s facilities in the right-of-way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone
number for each such person, and evidence of insurance as required in
subsection 9-2A-5A of this article, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
A telecommunications provider that has registered under this section shall be
deemed to have satisfied the registration requirement of this Code.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
9-2A-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
No person shall “construct” (as defined in section 9-2A-2 of this article) any
facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village
right-of-way which: a) changes the location of the facility; b) adds a new
facility; c) disrupts the “right-of-way” (as defined in section 9-2A-2 of this
article); or d) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by
the facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Director of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the Village therefor, except as otherwise provided in
this article. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customer premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Filing; Duplicate Copies: All applications for permits pursuant to this
section 9-2A-4 shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be
filed in such number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate.
Duplicate copies shall be submitted to the Village Engineer. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   B.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility’s name, address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers of all
professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to the
application;
      4.   The names, addresses, telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all general contractors and subcontractors performing any work
under the permit for which application is made;
      5.   The name of and a twenty four (24) hour emergency contact telephone
number (not voice mail or a recording) for at least one person with primary
responsibility for the work under the permit for which application is made;
      6.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      7.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies including, without limitation, construction and hazardous
materials emergencies and the intended response by the applicant. The intended
response shall include notification to the Village and shall promote protection
of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC regulations
for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this section unless
the Village finds that additional information or assurances are needed;
      8.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      9.   Evidence of insurance as required in subsection 9-2A-5A of this
article;
      10.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in subsection
9-2A-5C of this article;
      11.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
article (see section 9-2A-15 of this article); and
      12.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   C.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection B of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of new electric power, communications or natural gas
distribution system installation, evidence that any “certificate of public
convenience and necessity” has been issued by the ICC that the applicant is
required by law, or has elected, to obtain;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied and provide copies of IEPA permits;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District (MWRD), or other local or State entities with jurisdiction, have been
satisfied and provide copies of IEPA permits;
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed;
      6.   In the case of personal wireless services installations (but
excluding small wireless facilities), include the following:
         a.   A written statement of the wireless carrier or its contractor or
consultant of the need and purpose for the personal wireless services
facilities as proposed;
         b.   A description, maps and data of the wireless carrier’s existing
wireless facilities within the Village and within one-half (1/2) mile of the
Village;
         c.   A statement of the coverage or capacity gaps or deficiencies
within the wireless carrier’s system, and detailing how the installation of the
personal wireless facilities as proposed would address those coverage or
capacity gaps or deficiencies;
         d.   The location and photographs of each proposed personal wireless
services facility site and its immediate surroundings, depicting the poles or
structures on which each proposed facility would be mounted;
         e.   Specifications and drawings for each proposed personal wireless
services facility as it is proposed to be installed;
         f.   A statement of the total number of personal wireless services
facilities the wireless carrier estimates it will seek within the Village and a
map or drawing generally depicting the locations within the Village of the
anticipated personal wireless services facility sites; and
         g.   A schedule for the installment of the estimated personal wireless
services facilities, if approved; and
      7.   In the case of a small wireless facility, compliance with the
Village regulations implementing the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act
(50 ILCS 835/1 et seq.; see article B of this chapter.)
   D.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   E.   Fees; Exemptions: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, Village
ordinance, license, or similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant
to this article shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of twenty dollars
($20.00) per one hundred (100) linear feet of the facility within Village
right-of-way, or a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00). No application fee
is required to be paid by any telecommunications retailer that is paying the
municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee or the optional
State telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
Telecommunications Municipal Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act (35 ILCS 635/
1 et seq.), or by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity
Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Law (35 ILCS 645/1 et seq.)
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-4-3: ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   Village Review Of Application: Completed permit applications containing
all required documentation shall be examined by Village Engineer and the
Director of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer or Director of Public
Works shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor.
If the Village Engineer and Director of Public Works are satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this article and all applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Director of Public Works
shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it
shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
Village Engineer and the Director of Public Works, that the construction
proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with the
requirements of this article.
   B.   Additional Review Of Telecommunications Retailers’ Applications:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act (220 ILCS 65/4),
a telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village that it intends to
commence work governed by this article for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the Village not less than ten (10) days prior to the commencement
of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
commencement of work requiring excavation. The Director of Public Works shall
specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed,
used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Director of Public Works fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction; or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this section 9-2A-4. For purposes of determining when the ten (10) or twenty
five (25) day period specified in this subsection B2 begins, service of notice
to the Village shall be considered to have occurred on the date that the
Village has received all of the documentation required to be submitted under
subsection B1 of this section.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to sections
9-2A-4-1 and
9-2A-4-2 of this section
9-2A-4, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the Village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State Authorization
Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications by a utility
that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the Cable and Video
Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days after
submission to the Village, unless otherwise acted upon by the Village, provided
the holder has complied with all applicable Village Codes, ordinances and
regulations.
   D.   Additional Review Of Applications And Standards For Personal Wireless
Services Facilities (But Excluding Small Wireless Facilities): For a personal
wireless services facility in the right-of-way, review by the Village Engineer
and the Director of Public Works of the application information in light of the
requirements in this section shall be required. Standards for personal wireless
services review include:
      1.   The Village Engineer and the Director of Public Works will not:
         a.   Unreasonably discriminate among the providers of functionally
equivalent services;
         b.   Prohibit or create the effect of prohibiting the provision of
personal wireless services by a wireless carrier; or
         c.   Regulate the placement, installation, and modification of
personal wireless services facilities on the basis of the environmental effects
of radio frequency emissions to the extent such facilities comply with the
FCC’s regulations concerning such emissions.
      2.   The Village may reasonably limit the number of sites for personal
wireless services facilities available within the Village at the particular
time of the application and in the particular locations listed in the
application, based on the current inventory and locations of available sites
and current total demand for sites by wireless carriers.
      3.   The Village Engineer and the Director of Public Works must review a
properly completed permit application within a reasonable time consistent with
applicable State and Federal laws and regulations. A denial of an application
for a permit must be made in writing, stating the reason or reasons for the
denial. If the Village Engineer and the Director of Public Works are satisfied
that the application conforms to the requirements of this article and all
applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, then the Director of
Public Works must approve the application and issue the permit as soon as
practicable.
   E.   Compliance With Law: Notwithstanding the foregoing, applications for
small wireless facilities shall be made and processed pursuant to the Village
regulations implementing the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (50 ILCS
835/1 et seq.; see article B of this chapter).
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-4-4: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; Limitations: A permit from the Village authorizes a
permittee to undertake only certain activities in accordance with this article
on Village rights-of-way, and does not create a property right or grant
authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights of others who may have an
interest in the public rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this article shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Pre-Construction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this article prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction meeting shall be
held at a date, time and place designated by the Village with such Village
representatives in attendance as the Village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit and special
considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur including, without
limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area and
their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With Laws: The issuance of a permit by the Village does not
excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of the Village and
all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-4-5: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this article, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
9-2A-15 of this article. If the Village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-4-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Grounds: The Village may revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to
this section 9-2A-4 for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this article;
      3.   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Requirements: The Village shall send written notice of its
intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this section
9-2A-4 stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to the permittee under this section.
   C.   Options Of Permittee:
      1.   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         a.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         b.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
         c.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the Village, providing written proof of such
removal to the Village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
      2.   The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Immediate Correction By Village: If the deficiency creates an imminent
threat to life, health or safety, the Village may correct the deficiency
immediately upon verbal notice by the Village to the permittee.
   E.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth in subsection A of
this section.
   F.   Failure Or Refusal Of Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails to
comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the Village or its
designee may, at the option of the Village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days’
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the Village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the Village for all costs of removal.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-5: INSURANCE; INDEMNITY; SECURITY:
   A.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying a right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the Village and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1a and A1b of this section.
         a.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as X, C, and U coverages) and products completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            (1)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person;
            (2)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
            (3)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
         b.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with
a combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
         c.   Workers’ compensation with statutory limits; and
         d.   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
      2.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this
subsection may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies.
Any excess or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying
insurance on a following form basis such that when any loss covered by the
primary policy exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or
umbrella policy becomes effective to cover such loss.
      3.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this subsection to the Village within ten (10) days
following receipt of a written request therefor from the Village. In lieu of a
copy of the policy, a certificate indicating that the insurance policies
required by this subsection have been obtained and are in force, may be
submitted with the approval of the Director of Public Works.
      4.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages:
         a.   The insurance policies required by this subsection shall contain
the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until ten (10) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Director of Public Works of such intent
to cancel or not to renew.
         b.   Within seven (7) days after receipt by the Village of the notice,
and in no event later than three (3) days prior to cancellation, the utility
shall obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement insurance
policies meeting the requirements of this subsection.
      5.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A1 of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under said subsection A1, or the requirements of subsections A2, A3
and A4 of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to
the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection
A1 of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a “private self-
insurer” under the Workers’ Compensation Act (820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.)
      6.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility’s Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this subsection shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self- insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
      7.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this
subsection shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies issued by
insurers legally able to conduct business with the utility in the State of
Illinois.
   B.   Indemnification: By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-
of-way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
Village and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit or defense arising out of, resulting from or alleged to
arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts,
omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates,
officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction
of facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering
service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized,
allowed or prohibited by this article or by a franchise, Village ordinance,
license, or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity
obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands,
judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the
negligence, misconduct or breach of this article by the Village, its officials,
officers, employees, agents or representatives.
   C.   Security:
      1.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this subsection. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this subsection at the permittee’s
sole cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the
permit. The security fund shall serve as security for:
         a.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this article;
         b.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the Village
occasioned by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules,
regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the Village issued
pursuant to this article; and
         c.   The payment the by permittee of all liens and all damages,
claims, costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee in violation of this article
including, without limitation, any damage to public property or restoration
work the permittee is required by this article to perform that the Village must
perform itself or have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s
failure to perform or complete, and all other payments due the Village from the
permittee pursuant to this article or any other applicable law.
      2.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the Village
in the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection C2 shall, at a minimum:
         a.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the permittee;
         b.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection
by the Village of any amounts covered thereby; and
         c.   Provide a location within Cook, McHenry, Lake, Kane, or DuPage
County, Illinois at which it can be drawn.
      3.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient
to provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village, and may also include reasonable, directly
related costs that the Village estimates are likely to be incurred if the
permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village may, in
the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount
of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under
the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be
equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions
of this subsection C3 for any single phase. The security fund for each
construction project will be ten dollars ($10.00) per linear foot of the
project, or the company may post a yearly cash retainer or letter of credit for
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) (replenished yearly), or a bond for an
amount determined by the Village, for all construction work to be undertaken
that year.
      4.   Withdrawals: The Village, upon fourteen (14) days’ advance written
notice stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection C4, may withdraw an amount from the security fund;
provided, that the permittee has not reimbursed the Village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
         a.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
         b.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due
and unpaid;
         c.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
         d.   Fails to comply with any provision of this article that the
Village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
security fund.
      5.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C3 of this section.
      6.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest
accrued on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the
Village, upon written request for said withdrawal to the Village; provided,
that any such withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum
balance required in subsection C3 of this section.
      7.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
article or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the Village as a result of said revocation;
provided, that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
      8.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect
to the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village,
whether reserved by this article or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-6: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the Village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this article, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the Village’s right-
of-way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-7: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in any applicable ordinances, rules, regulations or manuals of the
Village and in the following IDOT publications:
      1.   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      2.   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      3.   Highway Design Manual;
      4.   Highway Standards Manual;
      5.   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      6.   National Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as supplemented
by IDOT;
      7.   Flagger’s Handbook;
      8.   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations; and
      9.   Public Improvements Standards Manual.
   B.   Interpretation Of Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy exists
between or among differing principles and standards required by this article,
the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound engineering
judgment, which principles apply, and such decision shall be final. If
requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The Village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in the National Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices, as supplemented by IDOT and this Code. The Director of Public Works
may require that additional traffic protection measures be taken, if, because
of the location where the work is to be performed or because of anticipated
high traffic volumes, the Director determines additional traffic protection
measures are warranted.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting all applicable Federal, State, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the public rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic. The Director of
Public Works may prohibit work from being performed at specified hours or on
specified days where higher than usual traffic volumes are anticipated. The
Director of Public Works may also prohibit work from being performed during the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. until nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and from four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on weekdays on Higgins Road,
Mannheim Road, and River Road.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of the work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
subsection 9-2A-12C of this article, the utility shall provide such notice as
is practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the Village.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-9: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Village Engineer and the Director of Public
Works determine that the proposed location will require the relocation or
displacement of any of the Village utility facilities or will otherwise
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any of the Village utility
facilities.
      2.   Rights-Of-Way And Adjacent Lands: Any utility facility shall be
located in the right-of-way so as to cause only minimum interference with the
use of the public right-of-way and public places, and to cause only minimum
possible interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners who adjoin the public right-of-way and public places.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Cooperation: Any utility seeking to place a facility in the Village
shall comply with the Village’s reasonable requests to place facilities on
public property where possible, and shall comply with Village direction with
respect to the location and screening of equipment and facilities.
      6.   Size Of Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the smallest
suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or cabinets
then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the particular
application.
   B.   Traffic Control And Public Safety Requirements: Unless granted a
variance pursuant to section
9-2A-15 of this article, traffic signal poles shall be reserved only for
traffic signals and traffic monitoring purposes. The Village Board of Trustees
specifically finds and determines that public safety demands that other
services and facilities shall not be collocated on or within traffic signal
poles for each and every one of the following reasons:
      1.   The need to maintain the highest level of public safety on Village
streets with high traffic counts without any risk that traffic signalization
will be intentionally or unintentionally disrupted by other service providers
or their contractors;
      2.   The Village’s need to manually operate and control traffic
signalization to maintain public safety during peak traffic volumes without any
risk that its ability to do so will be intentionally or unintentionally
disrupted by other service providers or their contractors that have facilities
located on or within the same traffic signal facilities;
      3.   The Village’s need to coordinate the maintenance of traffic control
devices with scheduled events so as to maximize public safety by having such
work performed only when traffic volumes are lighter;
      4.   The Village’s need to quickly respond to any damage or malfunction
of any traffic control device without any delay caused by the existence of
other facilities on or within the same traffic control facilities;
      5.   The Village’s need to be able to utilize traffic control devices in
order to assist in a large scale public safety response that may be required
for O’Hare Airport or any other location within the Village in a manner that is
not delayed or impacted by the existence of collocated facilities on or within
the same poles;
      6.   The need to maintain public safety and security by minimizing access
to traffic control facilities in order to prevent tampering and malfunctioning;
      7.   The need to prevent the risk that malfunctioning collocated
equipment disrupts or interferes with traffic signalization; and
      8.   The need to protect workers that are called upon to work on or
repair any traffic signalization facility in either an emergency or
nonemergency situation from hazards associated with other collocated equipment
that is not relevant to traffic signalization.
   C.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Rights-Of-Way:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of- way only if overhead utility facilities already
exist in the area of the right-of-way where the overhead parallel facility is
proposed to be located and if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from the pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right-of- way or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way only if approved by the Director of
Public Works and:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line and five feet (5') (1.5 m) from any water main;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
roadway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in an existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement);
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as approved by the Director of Public Works and any
aboveground appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right-of-way line or as near as practicable; and
         d.   Electric service feeds on or within arterial streets shall be
underground.
   D.   Facilities Crossing Roadways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of Village roadways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadway
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Culverts Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable,
unless otherwise approved by the Village.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a right-of-way only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Illinois Administrative Code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-
way line and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a right-of-way only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The Village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations. (49 CFR 192.707).
   E.   Location Within Particular Rights-Of-Way: The Village may require that
facilities be located within particular rights-of-way (a public utility
easement, for example) that are not highways, rather than within particular
highways.
   F.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The Village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right- of-way.
      2.   The Village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   G.   Aboveground Facilities: Aboveground facilities may be installed only
if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   H.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles; cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk, and such installments are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   I.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The Village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees, vegetation or terrain
features visible to the right-of-way user or adjacent residents and property
owners or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed by the
right-of-way.
   J.   Personal Wireless Services Facilities: Personal wireless facilities
(other than small wireless facilities) may be installed only if:
      1.   Number: Not more than one personal wireless services facility will
be permitted on an alternative antenna structure or item of Village owned
infrastructure.
      2.   Separation From Buildings:
         a.   All personal wireless services facilities shall be separated from
any principal building that is used for residential or institutional purposes
by a distance that is not less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
height of the higher of the highest point of:
            (1)   The antennas; or
            (2)   The alternative antenna structure or Village owned
infrastructure on which it is located.
         b.   The alternative antenna structure or Village owned infrastructure
shall be separated from another such facility by not less than five hundred
feet (500'). Such distance shall be measured horizontally from the center of
the base of the supporting structure to the point where the ground meets a
vertical wall of the principal building, or to the center of the base of the
other supporting structure.
      3.   Village Owned Infrastructure: Personal wireless services facilities
may be mounted on Village owned infrastructure such as towers or buildings,
only if authorized by a license or other agreement between the facility owner
and the Village.
      4.   Height: A personal wireless services facility installed on an
alternative antenna structure or Village owned infrastructure may extend no
more than seven feet (7') above the top of that existing structure or
infrastructure or to a height of forty five feet (45'), whichever is lower. The
lowest portion of any facility mounted on a structure or infrastructure shall
not be lower than eight feet (8') above grade.
      5.   Replacement Structure: A new alternative antenna structure or
Village owned infrastructure that replaces an alternative antenna structure or
Village owned infrastructure in the same location may extend not more than
seven feet (7') higher than the height of the support structure it is
replacing, but in no event more than forty five feet (45'). No part of the
personal wireless services facility installed on a replacement structure may
extend more than five feet (5') above the top of that replacement structure.
      6.   New Structures: No new alternative antenna structure shall be
installed for the purpose of installing a new personal wireless facility.
      7.   Volume: No personal wireless services antenna may exceed seven (7)
cubic feet in volume, including any panel, whip or dish shaped antennas. The
total combined volume of all aboveground equipment or appurtenances comprising
a personal wireless services facility, exclusive of antenna, shall exceed
thirty two (32) cubic feet. No cabinet or other equipment component of a
personal wireless services facility shall exceed seventeen (17) cubic feet. The
volume of a camouflage structure or device required by the Village shall not be
included in the determinations of volume under this subsection J7.
      8.   Color: Every personal wireless services facility shall be of neutral
colors that are harmonious with, and that blend with, the natural features,
buildings and structures surrounding such antenna and supporting structures, as
determined by the Village Engineer and Director of Public Works. Any wiring or
cables must be covered with an appropriate cover.
      9.   Antenna Panel Cover: A personal wireless services antenna panel may
include a radome, cap or other panel covering or shield, to the extent such
covering will not result in a larger or more noticeable facility and is of a
color that blends with the structure on which it is mounted.
      10.   Guy Or Support Wires: No guy or other support wires or other
similar mechanisms or techniques may be installed as part of any personal
wireless services facility.
      11.   Protection Against Access: Every personal wireless facility shall
be protected against unauthorized climbing or other access by the public in
compliance with the National Electrical Code and other applicable law.
      12.   Signs: Except as provided in this subsection J12, no personal
wireless services facility may bear any placard, sign, sticker, banner, or
label. A personal wireless services facility may bear warning or notification
signs required by Federal law or regulations and one small alphanumeric
identification marking at a location on the facility that, to the extent
reasonably feasible, is not visible from grade level.
      13.   Other Codes: All personal wireless services facilities shall comply
with all other codes and ordinances of the Village, as well as State and
Federal laws, rules and regulations.
      14.   Landscaping And Screening: All ground mounted portions of personal
wireless services facilities shall be screened in order to minimize the
visibility of such facilities, with a natural screen or fence so as to achieve
the maximum reasonable achievable screening as determined by the Village
Engineer and the Director of Public Works. Any natural screen shall be a
minimum of six feet (6') in height when planted, with dense plantings spaced no
more than two feet (2') apart. Any fence shall be a minimum of four feet (4')
height, except where fence height is otherwise limited by law, and shall be of
a style of construction that provides a visual shield of the facilities.
Screening or fencing shall be installed at least three feet (3') from equipment
installed at grade and eight feet (8') from the edge of any roadway.
      15.   Abandonment And Removal: In addition to the provisions for
abandonment and removal in section 9-2A-12 of this article, when one or more
personal wireless services antennas, facilities or related equipment are not
operated for the provision of personal wireless services for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months or more, such antenna, facility, or related
equipment may be deemed to be abandoned by the Village. The owner of such
antenna, facility, or related equipment shall remove such items within ninety
(90) days following the mailing of written notice that removal is required.
Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the owner.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-10: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer and/or Director of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits
for boring or jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in
advance of boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48)
hours after boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open,
they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be
designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely
support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the
boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved shall be bored under or
around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with any applicable
ordinances, rules, regulations or manuals of the Village and the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction”.
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Village Engineer and/or Director of
Public Works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   The utility shall not trench within the drip line of any tree
designated by the Village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with any applicable ordinances, rules,
regulations or manuals of the Village and with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction”. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Village Engineer and/or Director of Public Works, the utility,
at its expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of
the installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Village Engineer and/or Director of Public Works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a roadway only if that portion of the roadway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section 9-2A-15 of this article, the following requirements
shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon as
practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as designated by
the Village Engineer and/or Director of Public Works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
four (4) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or resurfacing or unless a pavement cut is
necessary for a JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
roadway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village. Casing pipes shall be installed where required and approved by the
Village Engineer and/or Director of Public Works.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as a clear zone for that particular section of
the roadway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village approved joint
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if the pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and the carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village. Bell-and-spigot pipe
shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair;
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities:
         a.   Cover shall be provided and maintained at least in the amount
specified in the following table for minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Power or communication line (in general) 30 inches (0.8 m)
                                         
Communication line installed by the       
plowed method                            24 inches (0.6 m)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               72 inches (1.83 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection, as approved by the Village
                                         Engineer or Director of Public Works
 
         b.   No power or communication line shall be located at a depth of
cover between four (4) and seven feet (7') without express approval by the
Village in the permit.
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within Village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois Administrative Code 305 (formerly
General Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for
Construction of Electric Power and Communications Lines”, and the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities,
if otherwise permitted under this article, shall use single pole construction
and, where practicable, joint use of poles shall be used. Utilities shall make
every reasonable effort to design the installation so guys and braces will not
be needed. Variances may be allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if
guy wires are equipped with guy guards for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided,
that special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of “moles”, “whip augers”, or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the Village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of “moles”, “whip augers”, or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with encasement provided between the ditch
lines or toes of slopes of the roadway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction;
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means; or
         e.   Open trench in a manner approved by Village Engineer and/or
Director of Public Works.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a Village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural Gas and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR 192), IDOT's “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction”, and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Sewer Lines Or Drainage
Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and drainage lines
within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the requirements of the Village's
Design Manual and the current “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois”.
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Village Engineer and/or Director of Public
Works. With the approval of the Village Engineer and/or Director of Public
Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of a
vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be
painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the requirements of the Village’s Design Manual, and the
applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standards Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction”, the requirements of the Illinois Commerce Commission, or the
standards established by other official regulatory agencies for the appropriate
industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right-Of-Way: All pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of- way and
other property. If material is to be stored on the right-of-way, prior approval
must be obtained from the Village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Village Engineer and/or the
Director of Public Works when emergency work is required to restore vital
utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the Village or restricted in
accordance with this article, the hours of construction are sunrise to sunset.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the Village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The Village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the Village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/
1 et seq.)
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-11: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Tree Trimming:
      1.   Permit Requirements:
         a.   Permit Required: Tree trimming shall not be considered a normal
maintenance operation, but shall require the application for and the issuance
of a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this article.
         b.   Application For Permit: Applications for tree trimming permits
shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent workers
with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning practices. Tree
trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the interest of assuring
that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   B.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The Village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   C.   Chemical Use: Spraying of any type of vegetation controlling chemicals
will not be permitted on rights-of-way unless approved by the Village Engineer
and/or Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-12: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Compliance With Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written
notice from the Village, a utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or
permanently remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
Village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the Village in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the public rights-of-
way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the public rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and
subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this article; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the Village, as the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful, in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the Village shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
public rights-of-way of the Village, the utility shall notify the Village
within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice, the Village may
direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village
Engineer and/or Director of Public Works determines that such removal will be
in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event
that the Village does not direct the utility that abandoned the facility to
remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the Village, the abandoning
utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any
portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-13: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
Upon completion of all construction or maintenance of facilities, the utility
shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain within ten
(10) days, and to the satisfaction of the Village. This includes restoration of
all disturbed areas. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Village Engineer and/or Director of
Public Works. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to
restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-14: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
   A.   General Maintenance Requirements: Facilities on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the
utility in a manner satisfactory to the Village and at the utility’s expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the roadway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall immediately notify the Village
Public Safety Department of the situation. This notification shall include a
description of the problem, work being undertaken, and what steps have been
taken for protection of the traveling public and what will be required to make
the necessary repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere
with the free movement of traffic, the Village Public Safety Department shall
be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the Director
of Public Works a description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way
within forty eight (48) hours after an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-15: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this article must do so in writing to the Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this article from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Village Board of Trustees shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this article
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions:
      1.   The Village Board of Trustees may authorize a variance only if the
utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
         a.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
         b.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities
that would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
      2.   As a condition for authorizing a variance, the Village Board of
Trustees may require the utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable
standards and conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this
article but which carry out the purposes of this article.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
9-2A-16: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the penalty provisions of this Code (See section
1-4-1 of this Code). There may be times when the Village will incur delay or
other costs, including third party claims, because the utility will not or
cannot perform its duties under its permit and this article. Unless the utility
shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action
is appropriate, the utility shall bear the Village costs of damages and its
costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility who does not pay the costs
apportioned to it.
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any additional
or further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 2018-7-11A, 7-11-2018)
ARTICLE B: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
9-2B-1:   Purpose And Scope
9-2B-2:   Definitions
9-2B-3:   Permitted In All Districts; Restrictions
9-2B-4:   Permit Requirements
9-2B-4-1:   Permit Required
9-2B-4-2:   Application For Permit
9-2B-4-3:   Duration Of Permit; Renewals
9-2B-4-4:   Completeness Of Application; Tolling Of Time
9-2B-4-5:   Action On Application
9-2B-4-6:   Effect Of Permit
9-2B-4-7:   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
9-2B-5:   Pole Application Agreement
9-2B-6:   Collocation Requirements And Conditions
9-2B-7:   Collocation Completion Deadline
9-2B-8:   Aerial Facilities
9-2B-9:   Annual Recurring Rate/Rental Fee
9-2B-10:   Construction; Maintenance; Safety; Inspection; Restoration
9-2B-11:   Insurance; Indemnity; Security
9-2B-12:   Change Of Ownership, Identity Or Legal Status
9-2B-13:   Removal, Relocation Or Abandonment
9-2B-14:   Prohibitions
9-2B-15:   Penalties
9-2B-16:   Dispute Resolutions
9-2B-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to establish reputations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village as commercial or industrial
zoning districts, in a manner not inconsistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (50 ILCS 835/1 et seq.)
   B.   Scope:
      1.   Except as specifically provided in this article, this article does
not limit the applicability of the provisions of article A of this chapter to
the location and installation of small wireless facilities within the Village.
If the provisions of this article and the provisions of article A of this
chapter are in conflict, this article applies and controls.
      2.   In the event that applicable Federal or State laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this article, the wireless provider shall
comply with the requirements of this article to the maximum extent possible
without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 835/10, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: NFPA Electrical Code, Illinois Department of Public Health
Plumbing Code, or International Mechanical Code adopted by a recognized
national code organization or Village amendments to those Codes.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A “cable service”, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; “information service”, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
“telecommunications service”, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; “mobile
service”, as defined in 47 USC 153(43), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A “cable operator”, as defined in 47 USC 522
(5), as amended; a provider of “information service”, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a “telecommunications carrier”, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
   A.   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the Federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
   B.   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the Village Board pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order or
Village ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in a
public right-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: An area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use. RIGHT-OF-WAY
does not include Village owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
   A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six (6)
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and
   B.   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25)
cubic feet in volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are
not included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter,
concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation box, ground based
enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cutoff switch, and
vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
STEALTH DESIGN: A method of camouflaging any tower, antenna, wireless facility,
or other ancillary supporting communications facility including, but not
limited to, supporting electrical, optical, or mechanical or other equipment
which enhances compatibility with adjacent land uses and which is visually and
aurally unobtrusive. STEALTH DESIGN may include a repurposed structure.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: 
   A.   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
      1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
      2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber optic cable, regular
and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
   B.   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
   C.   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
      1.   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated;
      2.   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that is
between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial or fiber optic
cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly associated with
an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018; amd. 2019 Code)
9-2B-3: PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and
shall not be subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated in
rights-of-way in any zoning district and outside of rights-of-way in commercial
and industrial zoning districts.
   B.   Applications for permits to collocate small wireless facilities on said
property shall be subject to administrative review as set forth in this article
and, if applicable, approval of any request for height exceptions or other
variances. Requests for approval of small wireless facilities to be located in
all other zoning districts and not in rights-of-way shall be subject to zoning
review and approval as set forth in the Village Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
9-2B-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No small wireless facility shall collocate on a utility pole or similar
structure or other wireless support structure without first filing an
application with the Director of Public Works and obtaining one or more permits
from the Village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this article.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Filing; Duplicate Copies: All applications for permits pursuant to this
article shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be filed
with the Director of Public Works in such number of duplicate copies as the
Village may designate. Duplicate copies shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer. Applicants shall submit applications, the supporting information, and
notices to the Village to the Director of Public Works by personal delivery, by
regular mail postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means,
i.e., overnight mail or e-mail.
   B.   Minimum General Application Requirements. A wireless provider shall
provide the following information to the Village, together with the Village’s
permit application, as a condition of any permit application to collocate small
wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a “structural engineer”, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989 (225
ILCS 340/4);
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed, and a depiction of the completed facility;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a “structural engineer”, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice of
1989 (225 ILCS 340/4), for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the
application as it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      6.   Certification that the collocation complies with all of the
collocation requirements and conditions set forth in section 9-2B-6 of this
article, to the best of the applicant’s knowledge;
      7.   In the event the proposed small wireless facility is to be attached
to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the wireless
provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of the owner
of such pole to the proposed collocation; and
      8.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village, but in no event shall the applicant be required to provide more
information to obtain a permit than the Village requires a communications
service provider that is not a wireless provider that requests to attach
facilities to a structure.
   C.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at
the applicant’s discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure. If the
consolidated application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
Village has the right to remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The Village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
   D.   Applicant’s Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments and/or revisions to information contained in the permit
application shall be submitted by the applicant in writing to the Director of
Public Works within thirty (30) days after the change necessitating the
amendment and/or revision.
   E.   Application Fees: All applications for permits pursuant to this article
shall be accompanied by the following nonrefundable applicable fees:
      1.   Six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) for an application to collocate
a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless
support structure;
      2.   Three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless
facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
facilities, as provided in subsection C of this section; or
      3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility
addressed in an application that includes the installation of a new utility
pole or wireless support structure for such collocation.
   F.   Exceptions To Application: The Village shall not require an
application, approval or permit or any fees or other charges from a
communications service provider authorized to occupy the rights-of- way for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with the requirements of subsection B4 of this section; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      4.   Notwithstanding subsections F1, F2 and F3 of this section, wireless
providers shall secure a permit to work within rights-of-way for activities
that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures as provided in article A
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-4-3: DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWALS:
The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than five (5) years.
The permit shall be renewed for a period of equivalent durations unless the
Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole does not comply with the applicable Village Codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this article. If the Small
Wireless Facilities Deployment Act is repealed as provided in the act, renewal
of permits shall be subject to the applicable provisions or regulations of this
Code in effect at the time of renewal of the permit.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-4-4: COMPLETENESS OF APPLICATION; TOLLING OF TIME:
   A.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days of receiving an
application, the Village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant of the status of the application. If the application
is incomplete, the Village shall specifically identify the missing information.
An application shall be deemed complete if the Village fails to notify the
applicant within thirty (30) days after all documents, information and the
applicable fees specifically enumerated in the permit application form are
submitted to the Director of Public Works by the applicant.
   B.   Tolling Of Time: The processing deadlines set forth in section 9-2B-4-
5 of this section 9-2B-4 shall be tolled for the following reasons:
      1.   The application is incomplete and the Village sends notice of such
incompleteness to the applicant within thirty (30) days after the receipt of
the application. The time for processing the application is tolled until the
applicant provides the missing information.
      2.   An express agreement in writing by both the applicant and the
Village to toll the time period for the application.
      3.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that caused the delay.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-4-5: ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   Village Review Of Applications: Completed permit applications
containing all of the required documentation shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and the Director of Public Works.
   B.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as follows:
      1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
      2.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless facility shall be processed within ninety (90) days
after the submission of a completed application. If the Village does not
approve or deny the completed application within said ninety (90) days, the
application shall be deemed approved.
         a.   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the Village, in writing,
its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five
(75) days after the submission of a completed application.
         b.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt by the Village of the deemed approved notice by the Village.
         c.   The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
Village’s denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this article.
      3.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that includes
the installation of a new utility pole or wireless support structure or a
replacement of a utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed
within one hundred twenty (120) days after the submission of a completed
application. If the Village does not approve or deny the completed application
within said one hundred twenty (120) days, the application shall be deemed
approved.
         a.   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the Village, in writing,
its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred
five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
         b.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt by the Village of the deemed approved notice by the
Village.
         c.   The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
Village’s denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this article.
   C.   Approval/Denial Of Permit: The Village shall deny any permit
application which does not meet the requirements of this article.
      1.   If the Village makes the determination that applicable codes,
ordinances or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation
requirements and conditions set forth in section 9-2B-6 of this article,
require that the existing utility pole or wireless support structure must be
replaced before the requested collocation is permitted, the approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the applicant’s expense. The replacement of the utility pole or
wireless support structure shall be subject to the provisions set forth in
article A of this chapter.
      2.   The Village shall document the basis for denial of the permit,
including the specific Code provisions or application conditions on which the
denial is based. The documentation shall be sent to the applicant on or before
the day the Village denies the permit application.
      3.   The applicant may submit a revised application once within thirty
(30) days after notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an
additional application fee. The revised application shall cure the deficiencies
identified by the Village in its written denial of the original application.
The Village shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the applicant’s revised application or it is deemed
approved. Failure to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days
of denial of the application shall trigger the requirement that the applicant
submit a new application with the applicable fees and the recommencement of the
Village’s applicable review period.
         a.   If the applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity
on a deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the Village, in writing,
its intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved
basis. This notice may be submitted with the revised application.
         b.   Any review of the revised application by the Village shall be
limited to the deficiencies cited by the Village in its denial of the original
application.
         c.   The revised application procedure shall not apply if the cure for
the deficiencies set forth in the denial requires the review of a new location,
new or different structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-4-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted: A permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to
undertake only certain activities in accordance with this article and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the public rights-of- way.
   B.   Compliance With Laws: The issuance of a permit by the Village does not
excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of the Village and
all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   C.   Restrictions: The approval of the installation, placement, maintenance,
or operation of a small wireless facility pursuant to this article does not
authorize the installation, placement, maintenance, or operation of any
communications facilities other than small wireless facilities in the right-of-
way.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-4-7: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Grounds: The Village may revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to
this section 9-2B-4 for one or more of the following reasons.
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this article;
      3.   The wireless provider’s placement or maintenance of a small wireless
facility in the public rights-of-way presents a direct or imminent threat to
the general public or other users of the public rights-of-way, and the wireless
provider fails to remedy the danger promptly after receipt of written notice
from the Village;
      4.   The wireless provider’s failure to construct the facilities
substantially in accordance with the permit and approved plans;
      5.   A Federal or State authority suspends, denies, or revokes a wireless
provider’s certification or license to provide communication services; or
      6.   The wireless provider ceases to use its small wireless facilities in
public rights-of-way and has not complied with subsection 9-2B-13C of this
article.
   B.   Notice Requirements: The Village shall send written notice of its
intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this section stating
the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the alternatives
available to the permittee under this section.
   C.   Options Of Permittee:
      1.   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         a.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         b.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
         c.   Immediately remove the small wireless facilities located on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the public rights-of-way and
restore the rights-of-way to the satisfaction of the Village, providing written
proof of such removal to the Village within ten (10) days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation.
      2.   The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this subsection; or
   D.   Immediate Correction By Village: If the deficiency creates an imminent
threat to life, health, or safety, the Village may correct the deficiency
immediately upon verbal notice by the Village to the permittee.
   E.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth in subsection A of
this section.
   F.   Failure Or Refusal Of Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails to
comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the Village or its
designee may, at the option of the Village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; 3) after not less than thirty (30) days’
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the Village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the Village for all costs of removal.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-5: POLE APPLICATION AGREEMENT:
   A.   Initial Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after the permit application
is approved to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole,
the Village and applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement
for the initial collocation on the Municipal pole. The Village shall be
responsible for providing said agreement. The Village and the applicant shall
enter into supplements to the master pole attachment agreement for subsequent
approved permits to collocate additional small wireless facilities on the
Municipal utility poles not included in the master pole attachment agreement.
   B.   Pre-Existing Agreements:
      1.   Existing agreements between the Village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in a right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on Village utility
poles, that are effect on June 1, 2018, shall remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the Village utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the Village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into on
or after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this article.
      2.   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village
on June 1, 2018, may accept the rates, fees and terms set forth in this article
for the collocation of small wireless facilities or the installation of new
utility poles for the collocation of small wireless facilities that are the
subject of an application submitted two (2) or more years after June 1, 2018,
by notifying the Village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The
existing agreement shall remain in effect, subject to applicable termination
provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has
collocated on the Village utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the Village before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its
option under this subsection.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-6: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Public Safety Conditions:
      1.   Reservation Of Space: The Village has the right to reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village’s
electric utility uses, or both. The reservation of such space shall not
preclude the collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village
reasonably determines that the Village utility pole cannot accommodate both
uses.
      2.   Traffic Control And Public Safety Requirements:
         a.   Unless granted a variance pursuant to section 9-2A-15 of this
chapter, traffic signal poles shall be reserved only for traffic signals and
traffic monitoring purposes. The Village Board of Trustees specifically finds
and determines that public safety demands that other services and facilities
shall not be collocated on or within traffic signal poles for each and every
one of the following reasons:
            (1)   The need to maintain the highest level of public safety on
Village streets with high traffic counts without any risk that traffic
signalization will be intentionally or unintentionally disrupted by other
service providers or their contractors;
            (2)   The Village’s need to manually operate and control traffic
signalization to maintain public safety during peak traffic volumes without any
risk that its ability to do so will be intentionally or unintentionally
disrupted by other service providers or their contractors that have facilities
located on or within the same traffic signal facilities;
            (3)   The Village’s need to coordinate the maintenance of traffic
control devices with scheduled events so as to maximize public safety by having
such work performed only when traffic volumes are lighter;
            (4)   The Village’s need to quickly respond to any damage or
malfunction of any traffic control device without any delay caused by the
existence of other facilities on or within the same traffic control facilities;
            (5)   The Village’s need to be able to utilize traffic control
devices in order to assist in a large scale public safety response that may be
required for O’Hare Airport or any other location within the Village in a
manner that is not delayed or impacted by the existence of collocated
facilities on or within the same poles;
            (6)   The need to maintain public safety and security by minimizing
access to traffic control facilities in order to prevent tampering and
malfunctioning;
            (7)   The need to prevent the risk that malfunctioning collocated
equipment disrupts or interferes with traffic signalization; and
            (8)   The need to protect workers that are called upon to work on
or repair any traffic signalization facility in either an emergency or
nonemergency situation from hazards associated with other collocated equipment
that is not relevant to traffic signalization.
         b.   In accordance with the requirements of the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act, which requires collocation “on or adjacent to” a
utility pole, the Village shall, upon compliance with this article, permit
collocation of small wireless facilities adjacent to traffic signalization
poles at locations which do not interfere with traffic signalization
facilities.
      3.   Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies:
         a.   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         b.   The wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         c.   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         d.   If a small wireless facility causes interference as set forth in
subsection A3c of this section, and the wireless provider has been given
written notice of the interference by the public safety agency, the wireless
provider, at its own expense, shall take all reasonable steps necessary to
correct and eliminate the interference including, but not limited to, powering
down the small wireless facility and later powering up the small wireless
facility for intermittent testing, if necessary. The wireless provider shall
remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC,
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         e.   The Village has the right to terminate the permit for a small
wireless facility based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in
compliance with the sections of the Code of Federal Regulations set forth in
subsection A3d of this section. Failure to remedy the interference as required
in herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   B.   Public Safety Concerns:
      1.   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable Federal,
State and local Codes, Code provisions, and regulations concerning public
safety. The proposed collocation cannot materially interfere with the
following:
         a.   The safe operation of traffic control equipment;
         b.   Sightlines or clear zones for transportation, pedestrians, or
public safety purposes; and
         c.   Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or similar
Federal or State standards and regulations regarding pedestrian access or
movement.
      2.   Additionally, for the safety of electrical utility workers and
members of the public, the small wireless facility shall comply with the
following:
         a.   Small wireless facilities collocated on the same Village pole as
a streetlight shall be on the same disconnect as the streetlight.
         b.   Small wireless facilities shall be grounded and otherwise fully
comply with all applicable electrical codes.
         c.   Whenever the conduit of small wireless facilities crosses
telephone or electric power wires, wires shall be crossed and be maintained in
accordance with the National Electrical Code, the National Electric Safety Code
and the “Safety Rules for the Installation and Maintenance of Electrical Supply
and Communication Lines” established by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of
Standards of the United States in force at the effective date hereof, and as
amended from time to time.
   C.   Third Party Contracts: The wireless provider shall comply with
requirements that are imposed in a contract between the Village and a private
property owner that concerns design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   D.   Noninterference With Electric Distribution Or Transmission System:
      1.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on Village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
      2.   Notwithstanding the above, the antenna and support equipment of the
small wireless facility may be located in the communications space on the
Village utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable,
if the wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the
top of the pole.
      3.   For purposes of this subsection, the terms “communications space”,
“communication worker safety zone”, and “electric supply zone” have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code, published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   E.   Compliance With Applicable Codes And Regulations:
      1.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with the
Village written design standards applicable for decorative utility poles,
stealth structures, concealment and aesthetic requirements set forth in article
A of this chapter, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      2.   Ground Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements set forth in article A of this chapter.
Any request by the wireless provider for a variance from the applicable spacing
requirements shall be subject to the procedures set forth in section
9-2A-15 of this chapter.
      3.   Underground Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with the
provisions set forth in section
9-2A-9 regulating undergrounding requirements that prohibit the installation of
new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-of-way without
prior approval if the requirements include a variance. Any request by a
wireless provider for a variance to install such new utility poles or modify
existing utility poles shall be subject to the procedures set forth in section
9-2A-15 of this chapter.
      4.   Compliance With Sign Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply
with sign regulations applicable to public rights-of-way.
   F.   Alternate Placements:
      1.   Existing Utility Poles: Except as provided in this article, a
wireless provider shall not be required to collocate small wireless facilities
on an existing specific utility pole or category of existing utility poles or
be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single existing pole.
      2.   New Utility Poles:
         a.   For an application for the collocation of a small wireless
facility on a new utility pole, the Village may propose that the small wireless
facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing wireless support
structure within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed collocation. The
applicant shall be required to accept the Village proposal if the applicant has
the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions,
and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical limits or
additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
         b.   If the applicant refuses a collocation as proposed by the
Village, the applicant shall be required to provide a written certification
describing the property rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the
alternate location does not satisfy the criteria set forth in this subsection
F2.
   G.   Height Limitations:
      1.   Generally: The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be
no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
      2.   New Or Replacement Utility Poles Or Wireless Support Structures: The
height for new or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') above the tallest existing utility pole, other
than a utility pole that only supports wireless facilities that exists within
the right-of-way on the date the application is submitted to the Village, and
is located within three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility
pole or wireless support structure and is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village; provided, however, the Village may
designate which intersecting right-of-way within the three hundred feet (300')
of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structure shall control the
height limitation for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      3.   Variances: If an applicant proposes a height for a new or
replacement utility pole or wireless support structure in excess of the height
limitations set forth in this subsection, the applicant may request a variance
for the height limitation pursuant to the procedures, terms and conditions set
forth in section 9-2A-15 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-7: COLLOCATION COMPLETION DEADLINE:
Collocation for which a permit is granted shall be completed within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the issuance of the permit by the Village unless the
Village and the wireless provider agree to extend this time period, there is a
delay caused by make-ready work for a Village utility pole, or there is a lack
of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after the issuance of
the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time
to complete the installation does not exceed three hundred sixty (360) days
after the issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be declared void
unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the wireless provider.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-8: AERIAL FACILITIES:
   A.   1.   A wireless provider shall comply with the process for make-ready
work under 47 USC 224, and its implementing regulations for collocation on
Village utility poles that support aerial facilities used to provide
communications services or electric services.
      2.   The Village shall follow a substantially similar process for make-
ready work, except to the extent that the timing requirements are otherwise set
forth in this article.
      3.   The good faith estimate of the person owning or controlling the
Village utility pole for any make-ready work necessary to enable the pole to
support the requested collocation shall include Village utility pole
replacement, if necessary.
   B.   1.   If a utility pole does not support aerial facilities used to
provide communication services or electric service, the Village shall provide a
good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the Village
utility pole to support the requested collocation, including pole replacement
if necessary, within ninety (90) days after the receipt of a complete
application.
      2.   Make-ready work, including any Village utility pole replacement,
shall be completed within sixty (60) days of written acceptance of the good
faith estimate by the applicant at the wireless provider’s sole cost and
expense.
      3.   If the Village determines that applicable codes or public safety
regulations require the Village utility pole to be replaced to support the
requested collocation, the Village shall require the wireless provider to
replace the Village utility pole at the wireless provider’s sole cost and
expense.
   C.   1.   The make-ready work shall meet all of the applicable codes and/or
industry standards. Make- ready work shall include all work needed to
accommodate additional public safety communications needs that are identified
in subsection 9-2B-6A of this article and included in an existing or
preliminary Village or public service agency budget for attachment within one
year of the submitted application.
      2.   Fees for make-ready work, including any Village utility pole
replacement, shall not exceed actual costs or the amount charged to
communication service providers for similar work. Said fees shall not include
any consultant fees or expenses for the Village utility poles that do not
support aerial facilities used to provide communications services or electric
service.
      3.   Make-ready work, including any pole replacement, shall be completed
within sixty (60) days of written acceptance of the good faith estimate by the
wireless provider, at its sole cost and expense.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-9: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE/RENTAL FEE:
   A.   The wireless provider shall pay to the Village an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a Village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year; or 2) the
actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of
space on the Village utility pole, if the actual, direct and reasonable costs
are greater than two hundred dollars ($200.00). The Village shall have the
burden of proving the actual, direct and reasonable costs.
   B.   If the Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be payable on the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-10: CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE; SAFETY; INSPECTION; RESTORATION:
The wireless provider shall install, maintain, repair and modify its small
wireless facilities in safe condition and good repair and in compliance with
the requirements and conditions of this article and article A of this chapter.
The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents and contractors
that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities are
adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry and
governmental standards and regulations. Specifically, the wireless provider
shall comply with the following requirements and conditions:
   A.   The wireless provider shall maintain its small wireless facilities in a
manner consistent with accepted industry practice and applicable law.
   B.   All safety practices required by applicable law or accepted industry
practices and standards shall be used during the construction, installation, or
maintenance of small wireless facilities.
   C.   After the completion of any placement or maintenance of a small
wireless facility in a public right- of-way, the wireless provider shall, at
its own expense, restore the public right-of-way to its original condition
before such work. If the wireless provider within ten (10) days, or such longer
period of time as may be agreed to between the Village and the wireless
provider in writing, fails to restore the public right-of-way following
completion of such placement or maintenance, the Village may perform
restoration and charge the costs of the restoration against the wireless
provider.
   D.   The wireless provider shall use and exercise due caution, care and
skill in performing work in the public right-of-way and shall take all
necessary and reasonable steps to safeguard work site areas. The person
constructing, installing and maintaining small wireless facilities must be a
licensed electrician, certified to work as a line worker, or successfully
complete an accredited line worker apprenticeship program.
   E.   A wireless provider shall not place or maintain its small wireless
facilities so as to interfere with, displace, damage or destroy any utilities
including, but not limited to, sewers, gas or water mains, storm drains, pipes,
cables or conduits of the Village or any other person’s facilities lawfully
occupying the Village public rights-of-way.
   F.   The Village shall have the right to make such inspections of small
wireless facilities placed or maintained in public rights-of-way as it finds
necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-11: INSURANCE; INDEMNITY; SECURITY:
   A.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Coverages And Limits:
         a.   Except for a wireless provider with an existing franchise to
occupy and operate the rights- of-way, during the period in which the wireless
provider’s facilities are located within the Village improvements or rights-of-
way, the wireless provider, at its own cost and expense, shall carry the
following insurance:
            (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost
against all risks;
            (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance with the statutory limits;
            (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the Village improvements or rights-of-way, with limits not less
than:
               (A)   Five Million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person;
               (B)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
               (C)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types
of liability;
            (4)   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
personal injury and property damage for each accident; and
            (5)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
         b.   If the wireless provider is not providing such insurance to
protect the contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such
contractors and subcontractors shall comply with this subsection.
      2.   Copies Required: The wireless provider shall include the Village as
an additional insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide
certification and documentation of inclusion of the Village in a commercial
general liability policy prior to the collocation of any small wireless
facility.
      3.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages:
         a.   The insurance policies required by this subsection shall contain
the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until ten (10) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Director of Public Works of such intent
to cancel or not to renew.
         b.   Within seven (7) days after receipt by the Village of the notice,
and in no event later than three (3) days prior to said cancellation, the
wireless provider shall obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of
replacement insurance policies meeting the requirements of this subsection.
      4.   Self-Insurance: The wireless provider may self-insure all or a
portion of the insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection
A1 of this section. A wireless provider that self- insures is not required, to
the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming
of additional insureds under this subsection. A wireless provider that elects
to self-insure shall provide to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate
its financial ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limits required
by the Village.
      5.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Wireless Provider’s
Liability: The legal liability of the wireless provider to the Village and any
person for any of the matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or
self-insurance required by this subsection shall not be limited by such
insurance policies or self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts
thereunder.
   B.   Indemnification: A wireless provider shall indemnity and hold the
Village and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless against any and all liability or loss from
personal injury or property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole
or in part, the use or occupancy of the Village improvements or rights-of-way
associated with such improvements by the wireless provider or its employees,
agents or contractors arising out of the rights and privileges granted under
this article or the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. The wireless
provider’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not apply against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the soles negligence of
the Village, its employees or agents. The wireless provider shall further waive
any claims that it may have against the Village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability.
   C.   Security: The wireless provider shall comply with the security
provisions set forth in subsection 9-2A-5C of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A wireless provider shall notify the Village
not less than thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any small
wireless facility in the right-of-way or change in identity of the wireless
provider. The new owner of the wireless provider or the small wireless facility
shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former owner under
the permit, if any, and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations,
including this article with respect to the work and facilities in the right-of-
way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the permit and
any applicable agreement between the Village and the prior owner if the new
owner uses the small wireless facility or allows it to remain on the Village
right-of-way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-13: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Removal By Village:
      1.   Under this article, the Village is not required to install or
maintain any specific utility pole or to continue to install or maintain any
specific utility pole in any location if the Village determines to eliminate
aboveground utility poles of a particular type generally, such as electric
utility poles, in all or a significant portion of its geographic jurisdiction.
      2.   If the Village determines to eliminate aboveground Village utility
poles of a particular type generally, and collocated small wireless facilities
are in place, the Village shall either: a) continue to maintain the utility
pole or install and maintain a reasonable alternative utility pole or wireless
support structure for the collocation of the small wireless facility; or b)
offer to sell the utility pole to the wireless provider at a reasonable cost or
allow the wireless provider to install its own utility pole so it can maintain
service from that location.
   B.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation: The Village retains the right and
privilege to cut or move any small wireless facilities within the rights-of-way
of the Village as the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If the
circumstances permit, the Village shall attempt to notify the wireless provider
prior to cutting or removing the facility and shall notify the wireless
provider after cutting or removing the facility.
   C.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility must remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after the date of the written notice from the Village notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment. The notice shall be sent by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, by the Village to the owner at the
last known address of the owner. If the small wireless facility is not removed
within ninety (90) days of the notice, the Village has the right to remove or
cause the removal of the facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment
agreement for Village utility poles, or through whatever actions are provided
for abatement of nuisances, or by other law for removal and cost recovery. The
Village shall charge the cost of the removal against the wireless provider or
any successor in interest to the wireless provider.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-14: PROHIBITIONS:
Nothing in this article authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   A.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
public rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support
structure without the consent of the property owner;
   B.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code (605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.);
or
   C.    Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/18c), Metra Commuter Rail or any other
public commuter rail service, or an “electric utility”, as defined in section
16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-102), without the consent of
the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility. The
provisions of this article do not apply to an electric or gas public utility or
such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed
and maintained consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-
108.5 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 16-108.5(i)). For the purposes of
this subsection, “public utility” has the meaning given to that term in section
3-105 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/3-105). Nothing in this article
shall be construed to relieve a person from any requirement: 1) to obtain a
franchise or a State issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service; or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this article.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-15: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the penalty provisions of this Code (See title 1, chapter 4 of
this Code).
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting any additional
or further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
9-2B-16: DISPUTE RESOLUTIONS:
The Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Village utility poles within the right-of-way, the
Village shall allow the collocating wireless provider to collocate on its poles
at annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per
Village utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the
dispute.
(Ord. 2018-7-11B, 7-11-2018)
CHAPTER 3: DRIVEWAYS
Section
9-3-1:   Permit Required; Restrictions
9-3-2:   Application For Permit; Review
9-3-3:   Permit Fees
9-3-4:   Conditions Of Permit
9-3-5:   Location Restrictions
9-3-6:   Residential Driveways Crossing Sidewalks
9-3-7:   Commercial And Industrial Driveways
9-3-8:   Maintenance And Repairs
9-3-9:   Revocation Of Permit
9-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall hereafter construct, repair or maintain a driveway across a
public sidewalk without first having obtained a permit therefor from the
Director of Public Works; provided, that no permit for a driveway more than
sixteen feet (16') in width in districts zoned for residences and apartments
shall be granted without approval by the Village Board, nor shall any permit
for a driveway more than thirty five feet (35') in width in districts zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes be granted without approval by the Village
Board.
(Ord. 75-11-19B, 11-19-1975)
9-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REVIEW:
   A.   Application for a permit for a driveway shall be made to the Director
of Public Works and shall contain the name and address of the person making
application and the proposed location and dimensions of the driveway. Plans and
specifications of the driveway shall accompany the application.
   B.   No permit shall be issued until the Village Engineer shall have
reviewed the application and certified to the Director of Public Works that the
application complies with all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 75-11-19B, 11-19-1975)
9-3-3: PERMIT FEES:
The permit fees for the issuance of a driveway permit shall be as set forth in
the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1G of this Code.
(Ord. 75-11-19B, 11-19-1975; amd. 2019 Code)
9-3-4: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
Permits required by this chapter shall contain conditions providing as follows:
   A.   That same may be revoked by the Village President or by an order duly
passed by the Village Board and signed by the President at any time without
consent of the grantee, in which case, the authority and privileges granted
shall thereupon cease and terminate.
   B.   That upon the termination by revocation, expiration or otherwise of the
authority, rights and privileges granted by the permit, the driveway therein
authorized shall be removed and the sidewalk and parkway space where the same
shall have been located shall be restored to its proper condition to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works, so that the portion of the
sidewalk and parkway space used for the driveway shall be safe for public
travel and in the same condition as the remaining portion of the sidewalk and
parkway space, at the sole expense of the grantee therein, without cost or
expense of any kind whatsoever to the Village; provided, that in the event of
the failure, neglect or refusal on the part of the grantee to remove the
driveway when directed so to do, the Village may proceed to remove same and
charge the expense thereof to the grantee.
(Ord. 75-11-19B, 11-19-1975)
9-3-5: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   On corner lots, no driveway shall be constructed nearer than ten feet
(10') from the sidewalk abutting such lots and running in the general direction
of the proposed driveway.
   B.   Where no sidewalks are existing, the proposed driveway shall not be
located nearer than ten feet (10') from the sidewalk line as established or to
be established by the Village.
(Ord. 75-11-19B, 11-19-1975)
9-3-6: RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS CROSSING SIDEWALKS:
No driveway shall cross a public sidewalk or cut into a curb along a public
street more than once in districts zoned for residences unless the issuance of
the permit for such a driveway has been approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 80-7-16B, 7-16-1980)
9-3-7: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DRIVEWAYS:
All driveways in commercial districts shall be made of concrete. The grade of
driveways and the radii of the sides of the driveways at the curb and the mix
for the construction material of driveways shall be in accordance with other
ordinances of the Village, as applicable, or as specified by the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 75-11-19B, 11-19-1975)
9-3-8: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
The grantee of a permit or the owner or occupant of any premises where a
driveway is maintained shall, at his own expense, make such repairs to a
defective driveway as the Director of Public Works shall direct.
(Ord. 75-11-19B, 11-19-1975)
9-3-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
If any person obtaining or possessing a permit under the terms of this chapter
shall at any time fail or neglect to comply with the provisions herein
prescribed, such permit may be revoked by the Village Board.
(Ord. 75-11-19B, 11-19-1975)
CHAPTER 4: BLOCK PARTIES
Section
9-4-1:   Definitions
9-4-2:   Permit And Compliance Required
9-4-3:   Application For Permit
9-4-4:   Processing And Approval Of Application
9-4-5:   Restrictions On Parties
9-4-6:   Enforcement
9-4-7:   Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BLOCK PARTY: A party or social gathering held on a public street within the
Village of Rosemont where the street is closed to motor vehicle traffic during
the duration of the party or gathering.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AREA: Those areas of the Village which are zoned A
Single-Family District under the Village of Rosemont Zoning Map and zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. 2006-9-13E, 9-13-2006)
9-4-2: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No block party shall take place unless a permit for the block party has been
issued by the Village as provided in this chapter. Persons who organize a block
party for which a permit has not been issued as provided in this chapter and
those persons who participate in a block party with knowledge that a permit for
the block party has not been issued as provided in this chapter shall be in
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-9-13E, 9-13-2006)
9-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Applications for permits shall be submitted to the Village Clerk. The Village
Clerk may prescribe and furnish permit application forms. Each application
shall contain the date and hours of the proposed block party, the location
where the block party will occur and the name, address and telephone number of
the person submitting the application. An application for a permit shall be
submitted not less than three (3) working days prior to the date on which the
block party is to be held. The person submitting an application for a permit
for a block party must reside on the block where the block party is to occur.
(Ord. 2006-9-13E, 9-13-2006)
9-4-4: PROCESSING AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
   A.   The Village Clerk shall forward a copy of each application for a block
party to the Superintendent of Public Safety, or his designee, and to the
Director of Public Works for their review and approval.
   B.   The block party permit shall be issued if the permit application is
approved by the Superintendent of Public Safety, or his designee, and by the
Director of Public Works and if the permit application indicates that the block
party will otherwise comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   The Superintendent of Public Safety, or his designee, shall approve an
application for a block party permit unless it is determined that holding the
block party on the date or during the hours specified in the permit application
will cause traffic congestion.
   D.   The Director of Public Works shall approve an application for a block
party permit unless it is determined that the holding of the block party on the
date or during the hours specified in the permit application will interfere
with maintenance work or construction related work that may be occurring in the
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2006-9-13E, 9-13-2006)
9-4-5: RESTRICTIONS ON PARTIES:
The following restrictions shall apply to block parties:
   A.   A block party may only be held in a single-family residential area.
   B.   Block party permits shall be valid for one day, between the hours of
nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. No street or other
public right-of-way shall be blocked off for a block party earlier than nine
o’clock (9:00) A.M. or after eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.
   C.   A block party may only be held on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
(Ord. 2006-9-13E, 9-13-2006)
9-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
A public safety officer working in a supervisory capacity may terminate a block
party and revoke a block party permit if, after investigation, the supervisory
public safety officer determines that violations of an applicable ordinance,
law, rule or regulation have occurred at a block party and that there is a
reasonable likelihood that such violations will continue to occur if the block
party is allowed to continue.
(Ord. 2006-9-13E, 9-13-2006)
9-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each separate four (4) hour period that a violation is
found to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-9-13E, 9-13-2006)
CHAPTER 5: VILLAGE PARKS
ARTICLE A: DONALD E. STEPHENS PARK
Section
9-5A-1:   Description Of Park
9-5A-2:   Bicycles Prohibited
9-5A-3:   Dogs Prohibited
9-5A-1: DESCRIPTION OF PARK:
The Donald E. Stephens Park is defined as the open space area owned and
maintained as a park by the Village of Rosemont and located at the intersection
of Scott Street and Higgins Road in the Village.
(Ord. 76-4-21A, 4-21-1976; amd. Ord. 76-7-7, 7-7-1976; Ord. 76-7-7A, 7-7-1976)
9-5A-2: BICYCLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall drive or ride a bicycle in the Donald E.
Stephens Park nor shall any person enter the Donald E. Stephens Park with the
intention to drive or ride a bicycle therein.
   B.   1. A person violating the provisions of this section for the first time
shall have the bicycle confiscated by a public safety officer whereupon the
bicycle shall be taken to the Public Safety Department of the Village. In the
event said person found violating the provisions of this section is a minor,
the bicycle may only be recovered by the parents or lawful guardians of the
minor after confiscation by the Public Safety Department. In the event the
person found violating the provisions of this section for the first time shall
be an adult, the bicycle may be picked up at the Public Safety Department seven
(7) days after the offense and confiscation of the bicycle shall have occurred.
The Public Safety Department shall keep a record of all offenders of this
section.
      2.   Any person found violating the provisions of this section more than
one time shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). 
(Ord. 76-7-7A, 7-7-1976)
9-5A-3: DOGS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall bring a dog into Donald E. Stephens Park or allow a dog
under his/her ownership or control to enter Donald E. Stephens Park.
(Ord. 76-4-21A, 4-21-1976; amd. Ord. 76-7-7, 7-7-1976)
   B.   Any person found to have violated the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 76-4-21A, 4-21-1976)
TITLE 10: WATER AND WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 1: WATER AND SEWER UNIT
Section
10-1-1:   Designated
10-1-1: DESIGNATED:
There shall be designated a Water and Sewer Unit within the Public Works
Department.
(1971 Code § 22-1)
CHAPTER 2: WATER USE AND SERVICE
Section
10-2-1:   Connection To Water System Required; Wells Prohibited
10-2-2:   Application And Permit To Connect To Water System
10-2-3:   Connection Specifications And Restrictions
10-2-4:   Water Meters
10-2-4-1:   Maintenance Of Commercial And Industrial Meters
10-2-4-2:   Service To Premises Which Have Not Been Provided With Water Service
10-2-5:   Water Rates, Penalties, Deposits And Shut-Off
10-2-6:   Water Used For Construction Of Improvements And Buildings
10-2-7:   Conservation Measures
10-2-8:   Closed System Air Conditioning
10-2-9:   Interference With, Damage To System
10-2-10:   Changes To Provisions
10-2-11:   Penalty
10-2-1: CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED; WELLS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, unless the context
requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following definitions:
PLUMBING SYSTEM. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems from the source of
private water supply on the premises or from a main in the street, alley or at
the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of applicable State law and
regulations for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public by the Village of Rosemont, intakes,
pumping stations, reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances, collectively or
severally, actually used or intended for use for the purpose of furnishing
water for drinking or general domestic use.
   B.   Use Of Public Water System Required: All residences, buildings and
other structures located within the corporate limits of the Village including,
but not limited to, residences, buildings and other structures that are owned,
occupied or operated by the Village, that have a plumbing system installed on
the premises and which provide potable water through such system shall be
properly connected to the Village public water supply system.
   C.   Private And Public Wells Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drill or install any well for the purpose of
securing water for use in any residence, building or structure within the
Village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to use water in a plumbing system from any well
drilled, dug or installed in violation of the provisions of this subsection.
      3.   The restrictions in subsections C1 and C2 of this section apply to
all residences, buildings, and structures located within the corporate limits
of the Village including but not limited to, residences, buildings and
structures that are owned, occupied, or operated by the Village.
(Ord. 99-4-7H, 4-7-1999)
10-2-2: APPLICATION AND PERMIT TO CONNECT TO WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Application To Connect:
      1.   Any person desiring to make any connection with the water system or
plant or use water therefrom shall first make application to the Director of
Public Works for that purpose upon a blank form to be furnished by the Director
or Village Engineer.
      2.   Every applicant shall state specifically and in detail the place,
location and kind of connection appendages sought, the purpose for which the
water is to be used and all the plumbing or plumbing work in any manner or way
connected therewith.
      3.   Applications for water service must state fully all the purposes for
which it is required, and when paying the charges therefor, the parties must
frankly and without concealment answer all questions put thereto relative to
its consumption. The applicant shall, in such application, agree that in
consideration of the insertion of the tap, he will pay or cause to be paid the
assessment levied on the premises for the water pipe that is proposed to be
tapped and all water rates or rents to accrue against the premises and that he
will faithfully comply with the rules established in this chapter and all
ordinances of the Village relative to the use of water. All applications for
water must be made in all cases by the owner of the premises, or his duly
authorized agent, for which water is sought to be supplied.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: Every person so making the connection with
the water system or plant or using water therefrom shall make the connection
and use the water and maintain the same subject at all times to the provisions
and conditions of this Code or the ordinances of the Village in force or to
become in force at any time during the period the connections are maintained or
the water is used and shall in all respects conform to the provisions and
conditions of this Code or ordinances of the Village. The Village Plumbing
Inspector must be there when tapping into any Village water main.
   C.   Issuance And Contents Of Permit:
      1.   When the applicant hereunder has complied with all the provisions of
this Code or the ordinances of the Village and any rules or regulations of the
Board of Trustees and paid to the Village Collector all of the charges
connected with securing water service, a permit shall then be issued by the
Director of Public Works authorizing the connection to be made, and specifying
the size thereof and the location of the proposed tap and shutoff box.
      2.   The permit shall show the location of the tap and the shutoff box,
size, length and weight of pipe and shall be endorsed by the Director showing
that he has inspected the tap before the trench was refilled, and the tap and
shutoff box are in the places specified, and in accordance with the
requirements of this Code or the ordinances of the Village and the rules and
regulations of the Board of Trustees, and the kind, location and size of tap
service pipe and shutoff box shall then be entered upon the map or profile kept
for that purpose as herein provided.
(1971 Code § 22-13)
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1 G of this Code for connection fees
10-2-3: CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The connections from the water main to the water meter shall be placed
at least five feet (5') below the surface of the ground and shall be made of
copper pipe of the quality known in commerce as extra strong. It shall be laid
sufficiently waving at least one foot (1') longer for each twenty feet (20') or
fraction thereof than if laid straight and placed in such manner to prevent
rupture or breakage from settling of the ground. Copper pipe of the size and
weight per linear foot following will be accepted as extra strong and complying
with the provisions of this chapter:
3/4 inch copper pipe: Three and one-half (3-1/2) pounds.
1 inch copper pipe: Four and three-fourths (4-3/4) pounds.
1-1/4 inch copper pipe: Six (6) pounds.
   B.   All copper pipe and copper plumbing and all service cocks, stopcocks
and shutoff boxes shall be of the kind and quality specified and approved by
the Director of Public Works. Service taps of two inches (2") or more in
diameter shall be made of ductile iron and be of T type connection of the same
material as the present water mains, and connections must be called the same as
the present water main connection.
   C.   No person shall make any excavation in any of the streets, avenues or
other public places in the Village for the purpose of laying water pipes
without authority of the Director of Public Works or the Village Engineer.
   D.   No person shall tap any water or service pipe between the water supply
main and the shutoff box.
   E.   No person shall make any tap or connection between the shutoff box and
the water meter without first obtaining a permit as provided in this chapter,
and then only under the supervision of the Director.
   F.   Before any backfilling is done between the shutoff and water meter, all
pipe and connection thereto must be inspected by the Director.
(1971 Code § 22-15)
10-2-4: WATER METERS:
   A.   Metered Service Required: All water consumers supplied by the Village
shall be supplied through meters only and shall pay for the water at meter
rates as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1G of this
Code.
(1971 Code § 22-16; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Location And Installation: All meters shall be placed in the buildings
under the direction and supervision of the Director of Public Works or Village
Pluming Inspector and shall be located as near as possible to where the service
pipe enters the building or structure so as to afford easy access for examining
and reading. After the meter is placed, only the Director or members and
employees of the Village Water and Sewer Department shall be allowed to repair
or in any manner interfere with the same. A stopcock shall be placed on each
side of the meter.
   C.   Repairs And Renewals: All repairs and renewals of meters shall be at
the expense of the applicant or owner of the premises, and the applicant or
owner shall at all times be responsible for any damage done by negligence or
freezing of the meter.
   D.   Defective Meters: It shall be the duty of the owner to promptly notify
the Director of Public Works of all defects in any meter or of its failure to
properly register the quantity of water. All defects in any meter shall be
promptly repaired by the Director or his designee, and the expense thereof
shall be paid at once by the owner; except, that corroded meters are to be
repaired at the expense of the Village. Whenever any meter, by reason of its
being out of repair or for any reason fails to register properly the amount of
water passing through the same, the consumer shall be charged at the rates
shown for the corresponding time of the previous year under like conditions. If
no record of the previous year exists, then it shall be the duty of the
Director to estimate or determine, so far as he can, the amount of water
consumed during the period the meter failed to operate, and the consumer shall
pay the amount estimated by the Director.
   E.   Access To Premises For Inspection, Reading And Testing Of Meters: The
Director of Public Works or any person by him duly authorized to inspect or
read meters shall have ready access to the premises, place or building where
the meters are located for the purpose of reading, examining, testing and
repairing same and examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of
water, and it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, prevent or
obstruct the Director or any other person by him authorized in his work
hereunder. Every consumer of the Village water shall take the same upon the
conditions prescribed in this section.
   F.   Damage To Or Tampering With Meters Prohibited:
      1.   All meters shall, upon installation, be thoroughly sealed to prevent
tampering with the same. No person shall break or remove the seal or cause same
to be done.
      2.   No person shall injure, mar, deface, destroy or in any manner
interfere with the meter.
   G.   Replacement Of Worn Meters: When a water meter is so worn or otherwise
rendered unfit for proper service, if same cannot be readily repaired, the
Director of Public Works may, and it hereby becomes his duty, to condemn the
same and order a new meter installed and paid for by the Village.
(1971 Code § 22-16)
10-2-4-1: MAINTENANCE OF COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL METERS:
   A.   All commercial and industrial customers receiving water from the
Village shall have an affirmative obligation and responsibility to maintain any
valves, stopcocks or other shutoff devices located immediately adjacent to both
sides of their water meter (upstream and downstream) in working order so that
the flow of water can be fully stopped on both sides of the water meter. Upon
receipt of written notice from the Village advising that a valve, stopcock or
other shutoff device located immediately adjacent to their water meter
(upstream or downstream) is not in working order, the commercial or industrial
water customer shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the notice, at its
expense, repair the valve, stopcock or other shutoff device so that it is in
working order.
   B.   All commercial and industrial customers receiving water from the
Village shall have an affirmative obligation and responsibility to exercise the
valves, stopcocks or other shutoff devices located immediately adjacent to both
sides of their water meter (upstream and downstream) on a quarterly basis by
fully closing and immediately reopening each valve, stopcock or other shutoff
device located on each side (upstream and downstream) of their water meter. All
commercial and industrial customers receiving water from the Village shall
maintain a log of the dates and times when the valves, stopcocks or other
shutoff devices located immediately adjacent to both sides of their water meter
(upstream and downstream) are exercised. The log shall contain the name and
signature of the individual that exercised the valves, stopcocks or other
shutoff devices on each date and time. This log shall be made available to
Village Public Works Department personnel upon request.
   C.   Any entity that commits a violation of any obligation imposed by this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
separate offense. The fine imposed shall be in addition to any cost of repair
incurred.
(Ord. 2017-11-8K, 11-8-2017)
10-2-4-2: SERVICE TO PREMISES WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN PROVIDED WITH WATER SERVICE:
   A.   For purposes of this section, the phrase “major remodeling” means any
remodeling which has a cost or value of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00)
or more, and the phrase “major structural modification” means any structural
modification which has a cost or value of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00)
or more.
   B.   1. Whenever the Village provides water service to premises which have
not previously been provided with water service, the water service shall be
metered.
      2.   Whenever there is any major remodeling of any premises to which the
Village is providing water service and such service is unmetered, the water
service shall be metered as part of the remodeling.
(Ord. 83-7-6B, 7-6-1983)
10-2-5: WATER RATES, PENALTIES, DEPOSITS AND SHUT-OFF:
   A.   Effective July 1, 2024 with respect to commercial water consumers,
residential water consumers and government/non-profit water customers, the
rates charged for water supplied to consumers by the Village shall be as
follows:
      1.   Effective with all bills issued for usage on or after July 1, 2024,
the rate of six dollars and forty-one cents ($6.41) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons shall be charged for each consumer utilizing water in a single-family
home, residential apartment or condominium unit. The minimum amount to be
charged to and paid by each such consumer shall be nineteen dollars and twenty-
three cents ($19.23) for each billing period.
      2.   Effective with all bills issued for usage on or after July 1, 2024,
the rate of thirteen dollars and five cents ($13.05) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons shall be charged for each consumer utilizing water in a commercial unit
or industrial unit. The minimum amount to be charged to and paid by each such
consumer shall be thirty-nine dollars and fifteen cents ($39.15) for each
billing period.
      3.   Effective with all bills issued for usage on or after July 1, 2024,
the rate of six dollars and forty-one cents ($6.41) per one thousand (1,000)
gallons shall be charged for each consumer utilizing water in a non-profit,
educational, religious, charitable, governmental or similar unit. The minimum
amount to be charged to and paid by each such customers shall be nineteen
dollars and twenty-three cents ($19.23) for each billing period.
   B.   Prior Rates and Charges Saved. Nothing in this amendatory ordinance
adopted April 8, 2024 shall be deemed to amend, alter or repeal the water
rates, charges or billings under Section
10-2-5 of the Village of Rosemont Code of Ordinances in effect for bills issued
for usage prior to July 1, 2024 as all such prior rates, charges and related
billings are expressly saved.
   C.   Temporary Water Meter Fee. The fee for the temporary rental of a water
meter shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). Water usage through a temporary
meter shall be billed at the commercial rate unless the user is a non-profit,
in which case the non-profit rate shall apply.
   D.   Single family residential water accounts shall be billed every three
(3) months. Except as otherwise set forth in this Section, all other consumers
shall be billed monthly. Billing for Village accounts, Rosemont Park District
accounts and Rosemont School District 78 accounts shall be suspended upon the
direction of the Finance Director during the off-season. The minimum monthly
fee will not be charged to Village accounts, Rosemont Park District accounts
and Rosemont School District 78 accounts for any months in which the billing is
suspended.
   E.   If water service to any customer is shut-off or disconnected, then in
addition to the payment of all amounts owed, a reactivation fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the Village by the owner or occupant of such
building or structure before water service is resumed. In addition, if water is
shut-off while the Village is holding a deposit from the customer, the customer
shall pay any amount necessary to ensure that the Village continues to hold the
full amount of the deposit required by section 10-2-5(G) before water service
is resumed.
   F.   A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be charged and due from all
consumers of water for payment of bills that are not paid by the due date. If
the full amount due, including penalties, is not then paid within thirty (30)
days after the bill due date, an additional ten percent (10%) penalty shall
then be assessed only upon the principal amount due (and not on any prior
penalty amounts) with additional ten percent (10%) penalties thereafter being
assessed on only the principal amount due after each subsequent thirty (30)-day
period passes without full payment being received. Any payments received shall
first be applied to all penalties that are due and then to the principal amount
due on the water bill that has remained unpaid for the longest period of time.
   G.   All new commercial and industrial accounts shall pay a deposit equal to
the estimated average monthly charge for water as determined by the Director of
Public Works but not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The applicant
shall truthfully comply with all requests for information reasonably deemed
necessary to estimate the average monthly charge for water. In addition, a
consumer who shall be late in making any payment due or in violation of other
provisions of this Chapter, whether or not his water has been shut off as
hereafter provided, may be required at the discretion of the Director of Public
Works to post a deposit equal to the anticipated amount of an average monthly
water bill. All deposits shall be credited to the consumer's water account
after a continuous one-year period of on-time payment history. No interest
shall be paid upon any deposit. Any deposit credits remaining after the
termination of a consumer's water service shall be refunded to the consumer.
   H.   A twenty-five dollars ($25.00) fee shall be charged to all consumers
for each payment that is rejected for non-sufficient funds.
   I.   If any water account is not fully paid within thirty (30) days after
the bill due date, a shut-off notice may be mailed to the account address
requiring full payment of all amounts due within a date that is at least ten
(10) days after the date the shut-off notice was mailed in order to avoid
disruption of service. After the shut-off notice is mailed, the only acceptable
method of payment is cash, money order or other method acceptable to the
Village. If the account is not paid by the date set forth in the shut-off
notice, the Village shall affix a notice to the front door of the location
indicating that the water will be shut-off if the account is not paid in full
by eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. on the next business day. In the event the
Rental Property Utility Service Act, 765 ILCS 735/1 et seq. or any other
statute governing a municipality's shut-off of water is applicable, the
relevant provisions of such statue shall be followed for the shutoff of water
instead of the procedures set forth of this section. The fact that the Village
is holding any deposit shall. not prevent the shut-off of water for lack of
payment. After water is shut-off, any deposit held by the Village shall be
applied to pay the amount due the Village with any remainder being returned to
the customer.
   J.   Rates A Lien: In addition to any other remedy provided for the
enforcement or collection of any water rent or rate, all rates provided in this
chapter shall be a lien against the premises to which any water may be supplied
and charged against the owner thereof, and the property owner of rented
buildings in the Village shall be responsible to the Village for all charges
for Village water used therein, or on or about the grounds adjacent thereto, in
any action waged by the Village in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
amount of all water rents or rates as may be due and unpaid, together with all
penalties provided herein and costs. Any change of ownership or occupancy shall
not affect the application of this subsection.
(1971 Code § 22-19) (amd. Ord. 2020-5-11, 5-11-2020; Ord. 2021-4-12A, 4-12-
2021; Ord. 2022-4-11, 4-11-2022, eff. 7-1-2022; Ord. 2023-3-13G, 3-13-2023;
Ord. 2024-4-8B, 4-8-2024)
10-2-6: WATER USED FOR CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Where Village water shall be required from a fire hydrant for
improvements, public or private, or for building purposes in the Village, the
contractor or builder shall pay to the Village for the same the scheduled rate
for one thousand (1,000) gallons as per rates adopted by this chapter to be
measured through a meter to be furnished by the Village set forth in the
Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1G of this Code.
   B.   The contractor, owner or builder shall make application to the Director
of Public Works for a permit to make such construction or improvement and also
make a deposit with the Finance Director of three hundred dollars ($300.00) to
ensure the return of the meter to the Village in good condition and the payment
of the amount due for water used.
   C.   Upon the return of the meter in good condition to the Village and the
payment by the contractor, builder or owner of all charges for the meter and
for the water used thereby in the construction of the building or improvement,
the money so deposited with the Village Collector shall be returned to the
person so making the deposit.
   D.   All water taken for building purposes shall in all cases be water taken
from inside of the lot line. In construction of buildings, a permit for a tap
shall be applied for at the time the building permit is applied for, and if
granted, a meter shall be furnished and placed at the time of making the tap
for water service to the building, and all water used in such construction
shall be paid for each dwelling and commercial and construction use to pay the
meter rates.
(1971 Code § 22-13)
10-2-7: CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Right Of Village To Impose Restrictions: The right is reserved by the
Village to suspend the use of yard fountains and hoses for sprinkling whenever,
in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, the public exigency requires it.
   B.   Outdoor Fountains: The service pipe of a fountain out of doors must be
provided with a stopcock or shutoff valve under the control of the Director of
Public Works.
(1971 Code § 22-13)
   C.   Flushing Sanitary Sewers: The flushing of sanitary sewers with potable
water is prohibited except when performed through the use of a high velocity
type sewer jet.
(Ord. 80-10-1B 10-1-1980)
   D.   WaterSense Fixtures: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
within this chapter, pursuant to 17 Illinois Administrative Code 3730.307(c)4,
and subject to the Illinois Plumbing Code (77 Illinois Administrative Code 890)
and the Lawn Irrigation Contractor and Lawn Sprinkler System Registration Code
(77 Illinois Administrative Code 892), all new or replacement plumbing fixtures
and irrigation controllers installed after the effective date hereof shall bear
the WaterSense label as designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
WaterSense Program when such labeled fixtures are available.
   E.   Lawn Sprinkling:
      1.   Definition: For purposes of this subsection, “lawn” shall mean that
portion of any lot under cultivation with grass, trees, shrubs, bushes or other
type of vegetation.
      2.   Days And Hours Restricted:
         a.   During the period from May 15 through September 15 of each year,
it shall be unlawful for any person to use water for hose fed sprinkling or
electronic irrigation of lawns on any day between the hours of twelve o’clock
(12:00) noon through six o’clock (6:00) o’clock P.M.
         b.   During the period from May 15 through September 15 of each year,
it shall be unlawful for any person to use water for hose fed sprinkling or
electronic irrigation of lawns on the thirty first day of any month.
         c.   In addition to the prohibitions stated in subsections E2a and E2b
of this section, it shall be unlawful during all hours during the period from
May 15 through September 15 of each year, on even numbered days of the month,
for any person to use water for hose fed sprinkling or electronic irrigation of
lawns located on odd numbered lots.
         d.   In addition to the prohibitions stated in subsections E2a and E2b
of this section, it shall be unlawful during all hours during the period from
May 15 through September 15 of each year, on odd numbered days of the month,
for any person to use water for hose fed sprinkling or electronic irrigation of
lawns located on even numbered lots.
      3.   Exemptions: The restrictions contained in subsection E2 of this
section shall not apply during the first two (2) weeks after new sod has been
placed, or during the first two (2) weeks after a lawn has been newly seeded;
provided, that the owner or occupant of the property has obtained a sod
watering permit from the Village Department of Public Works.
      4.   Emergencies: If the Village President determines that an emergency
exists which requires that the consumption and use of water within the Village
be limited in order to protect the health and safety of persons within the
Village, the Village President may issue an emergency order which limits and
otherwise restricts the use of water within the Village. Such an emergency
order shall remain in effect for up to seventy two (72) hours unless the order
is extended by vote of the Village Corporate Authorities.
      5.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of subsection E2 or
E3 of this section, or who violates an emergency order issued pursuant to
subsection E4 of this section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. Each that day that a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2015-11-18F, 11-18-2015)
10-2-8: CLOSED SYSTEM AIR CONDITIONING:
   A.   For purposes of this section, the phrase “major remodeling” means any
remodeling which has a cost or value of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00)
or more, and the phrase “major structural modification” means any structural
modification which has a cost or value of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00)
or more.
   B.   All air conditioning systems installed in any building or structure
which is constructed in the Village shall be of the “closed system” type so as
to provide for the recirculation and reuse of water. Whenever there is any
major remodeling or major structural modification of any building or structure
within the Village which is air conditioned with an air conditioning system
which does not recirculate and reuse water, such air conditioning system shall
be replaced as part of the remodeling or structural modification with closed
system air conditioning which will provide for the recirculation and reuse of
water. (Ord. 83-7-6B, 7-6-1983)
10-2-9: INTERFERENCE WITH, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
   A.   No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any stopcock,
hydrant or valve or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any
street, alley, public ground or place connected with or part of the water or
sewer system or plant, nor pile or place any material of any kind whatsoever so
as to hinder, delay or obstruct the members of the Public Safety Department in
reaching the same.
   B.   No person shall in any manner interfere with or obstruct the flow,
retention, storage or authorized use of water in the water or sewer system or
plant or any part thereof or injure, deface, remove or displace any water main,
hydrant, service pipe, water meter, shutoff box, public fountain, valve,
engine, or building connected with the water or sewer system or plant, or
cause, suffer, or permit any of such things to be done.
   C.   When water service has been shut off by the Director of Public Works or
his designee, it shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to turn on or
otherwise tamper with the shutoff valve in any way, shape or manner.
   D.   No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire
hydrant or service cock or use water therefrom when so turned on.
(1971 Code § 22-18)
10-2-10: CHANGES TO PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Village from changing or altering the
provisions hereof, and the Village shall have and retain authority from time to
time to change, increase, decrease or improve the system or plant or any part
or portion thereof or to establish new or different rates, regulations or
provisions concerning the use or change the source of supply or to later amend,
change or repeal any of the provisions of this chapter.
(1971 Code § 22-20)
10-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense. In
addition to the fine, the person shall be liable for any and all physical
damage to the water and sewer system or plant or any part thereof.
(1971 Code § 22-21)
ARTICLE A: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
10-2A-1:   Applicability Of Backflow And Cross-Connection Requirements
10-2A-2:   Cross-Connection Prohibited
10-2A-3:   Cross-Connection Control Survey And Inspections
10-2A-4:   New/Replacement Cross-Connection Control Installation Inspections
10-2A-5:   Registry
10-2A-6:   Testing Inspection Fee
10-2A-7:   Compliance Required
10-2A-8:   Disconnection Of Service
10-2A-9:   Annual Inspections; Penalty
10-2A-10:   Penalty
10-2A-11:   Prosecution Of Violations; Injunctions
10-2A-1: APPLICABILITY OF BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
All existing water supply systems receiving potable water from the Village
shall comply with all the regulations and requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code addressing cross-connections and backflow, including, but not necessarily
limited to, the requirements of 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890 and 77 Ill. Admin. Code
900. In the event, the standards and requirements of the Illinois Plumbing Code
pertaining to the regulations of cross-connections and the protection against
backflow are in the future amended, such amended requirements shall be
applicable.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-2: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the public water supply
enters the Village's public water supply unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall be in compliance with the Illinois Plumbing Code and approved by the
Director of Public Works and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
("IEPA").
   B.   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any arrangement or
connection by which a pollutant or contaminant may enter the Village's public
water supply.
   C.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where cross- connection control devices
or methods which meet the requirements of the Illinois Plumbing Code are
installed, tested and maintained to insure proper operation on a continuing
basis.
   D.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a water supply system and any other water supply that is not in compliance
with the Illinois Plumbing Code and has not been approved by the Director of
Public Works and the IEPA.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-3: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL SURVEY AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works ("Director") to
cause a survey to be made of properties served by the public water supply to
determine whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may
exist by reason of cross-connections or potential backflow risks. Such surveys
and investigations shall be repeated as often as the Director of Public Works
shall deem necessary.
   B.   The survey conducted by the Director of Public Works shall include the
inspection of the premises of all individuals/entities receiving water from the
Village's water system ("water customer" or "customer") to ascertain the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the premises and the need for
the installation of any new cross-connection control devices. It shall be the
duty of all individuals/entities receiving water from the Village's to have any
existing cross-connection control device inspected and tested by a State
licensed cross-connection control inspector annually or more frequently if
recommended by the device's manufacturer. If the owners or occupants of the
premises does not have any cross-connection control device inspected annually
or more frequently if recommended by the device's manufacturer, the Village or
the Village's Director of Public Works is authorized to petition any court
having competent jurisdiction, through the Village Attorney, for the issuance
of a warrant or order authorizing the owners or occupants of a premises to
obtain an inspection, sampling, examination and photocopying and the
performance of any other duties as required by the State Plumbing Code. If the
Director finds that it is necessary to conduct sampling and monitoring
operations, the Director shall request permission from the customer to set up
such sampling and monitoring operations. If the consumer refuses to grant such
permission, the Village or Director shall apply to the appropriate court,
through the Village Attorney, for a warrant or order which will allow such
monitoring and sampling to take place on the premises.
   C.   Commercial, institutional or industrial establishments receiving water
from the Village's public supply shall conduct annual surveys of water use
practices on the customer's premises to determine whether there are actual or
potential cross-connections to the customer's water system through which
contaminants or pollutants could backflow into the public water supply system.
   D.   All individuals/entities receiving water from the Village's water
system shall prevent backflow into the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   All cross-connections are removed; or cross-connection control
devices are installed in compliance with the Illinois Plumbing Code to protect
against backflow and back-siphonage;
      2.   All cross-connection control devices are installed only in
compliance with the Illinois Plumbing Code and in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions; and
      3.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-4: NEW/REPLACEMENT CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL INSTALLATION INSPECTIONS:
The installation of all new cross-connection control devices and/or the
replacement of any cross-connection device shall be performed by a licensed
plumber in conformance with the Illinois Plumbing Code and the device
manufacturer's instructions. Before any such new or replacement cross-
connection control device is placed into service, its installation shall be
approved by the Village's plumbing inspector for compliance with the Illinois
Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-5: REGISTRY:
   A.   The Village through its hired third-party contractor shall maintain a
registry of all cross-connection devices located within the Village. The owner
or occupant receiving water from the Village shall have an obligation to
maintain records of the information required below for the registry and shall
provide such information to the Village's third-party contractor upon request.
The State licensed cross-connection control inspector hired by the owner/
occupant shall also have an obligation to provide the information required
below to the Village's third-party contractor. The registry shall include the
following information:
      1.   The water customer or owner of the device;
      2.   The address where the device is located and a reasonably specific
description of where the device is located on the premises;
      3.   The make and model of the device;
      4.   The date of the inspection and testing of the device;
      5.   The results of any testing;
      6.   The date installed, if known;
      7.   The inspection and testing frequency;
      8.   Name of the State licensed cross-connection control inspector
performing the test and/or the name of the Village Plumber performing the
inspection;
      9.   Any repairs or servicing required;
      10.   The date any repairs or servicing was completed and the name of the
licensed plumber performing the repair; and
      11.   Any additional information that may be required by the Illinois
Plumbing Code.
   B.   In addition, each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of
most recent test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of
repairs.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-6: TESTING INSPECTION FEE:
Each water customer shall pay a two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) testing fee
to the Village for each cross-connection control device tested by the Village's
CCCDI Inspector. The testing fee includes one (1) retesting of any cross-
control device that may be necessary to insure the device is properly
functioning following any necessary repairs or replacement of a device required
as a result of the initial inspection. In the event more than one retesting is
required for any cross-connection device, an additional fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be payable for each additional retesting of the device.
The inspection fee shall be paid within twenty one (21) days after the receipt
of an invoice is received from the Village.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019)
10-2A-7: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Consumers must comply with this article in order to continue to receive
water service from the Village's public water supply system.
   B.   If the public water supply is contaminated or polluted by back siphoned
material or backflow, and the contamination or pollution occurs through an
improperly installed, maintained or repaired backflow prevention device, or
because a backflow prevention device has been bypassed, then the water customer
responsible shall, in addition to any fines or other amounts due under this
article, pay to the Village any and all costs incurred in removing the
contaminant or pollutant from the public water supply system, including the
cost of effecting compliance with and enforcing this article.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-8: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE:
   A.   The premises of a water customer who violates a provision of this
article may be disconnected from the public water supply system as provided in
this section.
   B.   Procedures For Immediate Disconnection:
      1.   A water customer is subject to having the customer's premises
immediately disconnected from the Village's public water supply system whenever
immediate disconnection is required to halt or prevent any pollutant or
contaminant from flowing from the premises into the public water supply system
which reasonably appears to the Director of Public Works to present a severe
health hazard.
      2.   The Director of Public Works shall have the authority, after
informal notice to the consumer, to immediately and effectively halt or prevent
any discharge of pollutants or contaminants to the public water supply system
that reasonably appears to present a severe health hazard. When the Director
determines that such an emergency situation exists, he shall issue a verbal
order (followed immediately by a written order) to the water customer, stating
the problem and requiring immediate cessation of the discharge. The Director's
actions may include the disconnection of water service if there is an imminent
threat of a severe health hazard. Methods of informal notice shall include, but
not be limited to, any of the following: personal conversation between the
water customer and Village employees, telephone calls, letters, hand-delivered
messages or notices posted at the water customer's premises or point of
discharge.
      3.   Right To Request Hearing: A water customer who is disconnected
pursuant to subsection B1 or B2 above, shall have the right to request a
hearing, at which time the customer shall be given the opportunity to show
cause as to why it should not be disconnected from the public water supply
system. Such hearings shall commence within seven (7) days after a written
request for the hearing is received by the Village President. Such hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures contained in subsection C
below.
   C.   Procedures For Disconnection In Non-Emergency Situations:
      1.   The Director of Public Works may order a water customer who causes
or allows any condition to occur which violates the provisions of this article
to show cause at a hearing as to why the premises where the condition occurred
should not be disconnected from the public water supply system. A notice shall
be served on the consumer specifying the time and place of a hearing regarding
the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed action
and directing the customer to show cause why the premises should not be
disconnected. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten (10) days
before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation.
      2.   The Village President may conduct the hearing and take the evidence
or may designate the Village Attorney to:
         a.   Issue notices of hearings requesting the attendance and testimony
of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in
such hearing;
         b.   Take the evidence; and
         c.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Village
President for action thereon.
      3.   After the Village President has reviewed the evidence, he may issue
an order to the water customer directing either that the premises be
disconnected from the public water supply system; or following a specified
time, the premises shall be disconnected and water service discontinued, unless
the condition causing the violation is corrected.
      4.   Following an order to disconnect, the Director of Public Works shall
cause whatever action is needed to be taken in order to disconnect the
consumer's premises from the public water supply system.
   D.   Restoration Of Water Service: If water service to the premises is
disconnected pursuant to this section, water service shall not be restored to
the premises until such time as the condition which caused the violation is
corrected and a reconnection fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) is paid
to the Village.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-9: ANNUAL INSPECTIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be the affirmative duty of every owner/occupant of a building
or structure receiving water from the Village to have all cross-connection
control devices inspected annually by a State licensed cross-connection control
inspector or more frequently if required by the manufacturer of the cross-
connection control device. It shall be a violation of the Village Code for any
water customer to fail to have the inspection and testing of any cross-
connection control device completed on or before the due date for such testing.
If a water customer fails to undertake the inspection or testing of and cross-
connection control device prior to the due date for the inspection/testing the
water customer shall, upon being found liable, pay the following fines:
      1.   Zero (0) to forty-four (44) days past due: a fine of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) for each past due device; and
      2.   Forty-five (45) or more days past due: a fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each past due device plus an additional fine of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per each past due device for each additional thirty
(30) day period after the first forty five (45) days.
   B.   If the inspection is past due by more than one hundred twenty (120)
days the Village, in addition to any monetary fines that shall continue to
accrue, shall have the ability to seek the non-emergency disconnection of the
premises from the Village's public water supply. Nothing contained in this
section shall preclude the Village from undertaking an immediate disconnection
from the public water supply when such action is required to halt or prevent
any pollutant or contaminant from flowing into the public water supply system
which reasonably appears to the Director of Public Works to present a severe
health hazard.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-10: PENALTY:
A violation of this article (other than a violation addressed in section
10-2A-9) shall, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) with each day a violation occurs being considered as a
separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
10-2A-11: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIONS:
Violations of the provisions of this article are subject to prosecution under
the Village's administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant
title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code as now or hereafter amended. The
provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this article,
including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, or before another administrative tribunal which has
jurisdiction to consider the violation. In the event that a person commits
repeated violations of this article, the Village may institute an action to
enjoin further such person from committing further violations of this article.
In the event such an action is instituted and an injunction is issued, the
person whose conduct is enjoined shall be required to compensate the Village
for the attorneys' fees and other costs incurred in obtaining the injunction.
(Ord. 2019-1-9A, 1-9-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-4-11C, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 3: WASTEWATER CONTROL
Section
10-3-1:   Connections Inside Village Limits
10-3-2:   Discharges Into Storm Sewers Prohibited
10-3-3:   Grease Interceptors
10-3-1: CONNECTIONS INSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall make or cause to be made any
connection with a public sewer without first having received a permit for such
connection from the Village Clerk.
(1971 Code § 22-2)
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit must be made by the
owner of the property on which it is desired to drain, or by his duly
authorized agent, and it must be accompanied by a clear and exact description
of the premises and the character and location of the drains it is proposed to
put in place, together with the number and location of all water closets,
sinks, bathtubs, receiving basins and other sanitary fixtures it is designed to
connect with, which description must be left and placed on file in the Office
of the Director of Public Works for future reference.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon the approval of the application by the
Director of Public Works, the Village Engineer shall issue to the applicant a
permit to connect the private or house drain with any public sewer or drain;
provided, that the applicant is justly and legally entitled thereto.
(1971 Code § 22-3)
   D.   Tap In Permit Fees: The tap in permit fees for connections made to the
public sewer system shall be as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule,
subsection 3-10-1G of this Code.
(1971 Code § 22-5; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   Installation Of Connections:
      1.   All work in connection with the installation of sewer connections
shall be done by licensed drain layers or by competent servants, agents or
employees in the employ of such drain layers and shall be subject to the
inspection, supervision and approval of the Director of Public Works.
      2.   All sewer pipe and catch basin work shall be left exposed for
thorough inspection as to grades and quality of pipe, brick, and cement and
comparison with plans, and shall not be covered up until passed upon by the
Director of Public Works.
      3.   All work on sewer connections shall be done in accordance with plans
and specifications approved by the Director of Public Works and subject to such
rules and regulations as may be adopted by the Village Board of Trustees.
(1971 Code § 22-4)
   F.   Separate Permits And Connections Required: A separate permit and a
separate connection shall be required for each building connected to the
Village sewer system under the terms of this section.
(1971 Code § 22-5)
   G.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day an illegal
connection shall remain in place shall constitute a separate offense.
(1971 Code § 22-6)
10-3-2: DISCHARGES INTO STORM SEWERS PROHIBITED:
No person shall permit, make, or cause to be made a connection or otherwise
discharge sewage or industrial waste into any storm sewer located in the
Village.
(1971 Code § 22-22)
10-3-3: GREASE INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, the term “grease basin or
interceptor” means a receptacle designed to cause separation and retention of
oil or grease from liquid wastes.
(1971 Code § 22-23)
   B.   Regulations:
      1.   Sinks, dishwashers, or other fixtures in restaurants, hotels,
motels, clubhouses, public institutions, butcher shops, or other establishments
from which greasy wastes are discharged shall be connected to a grease
interceptor approved by the Director of Public Works and the Village Engineer,
located as close as possible to the fixtures served, and within the limits of
the same room.
      2.   All grease interceptors located within buildings shall be
constructed of heavy cast-iron and shall be provided with a tight metal cover,
securely fastened.
      3.   All grease interceptors shall have a capacity sufficient to
intercept and retain not less than ninety five percent (95%) of the grease
received.
      4.   All grease interceptors shall be provided with suitable vents to
prevent loss of seal, as required for plumbing fixtures. Traps shall have not
less than a four inch (4") seal.
      5.   a. A grease catch basin located outside a building shall be of
concrete, precast in blocks, or of MWRD construction standards.
         b.   The basin shall be watertight and shall not be less than thirty
six inches (36") in diameter below the top of the highest inlet pipe. It shall
be partitioned by a vertical baffle plate of cast iron. One face of the baffle
shall be perpendicular to the line of the outlet pipe and eight inches (8")
from it. The top of the baffle shall be twelve inches (12") above the top of
the outlet pipe, and the bottom of the baffle shall be twelve inches (12")
below the invert of the pipe. The bottom of the basin shall be twelve inches
(12") below the bottom of the baffle. The outlet pipe shall not be trapped. The
basin shall be covered with an all cast-iron cover or cast-iron lid in a stone
or concrete ring and with a minimum opening of sixteen inches (16"). The lid
shall not be less than one-fourth inch (1/4") thick.
      6.    The inverts of the inlet pipes carrying grease bearing wastes shall
not be less than six inches (6") above the outlet pipe. Interior covered garage
drains may be connected to a grease catch basin without any other intervening
basin when the capacity of the garage does not exceed two (2) cars and the roof
area is not more than five hundred feet (500'). Such drains shall connect on
the inlet side of the grease basin and shall be trapped at the basin unless
traps are provided elsewhere. Traps at the grease basin for garage drains shall
be cast-iron elbows, cast-iron offsets, or cast-iron tile, or concrete half
traps, all of them to be built into the wall of the basin and so placed as to
give at least a four inch (4") seal for garage drains.
(1971 Code § 22-24)
   C.   Inspections: The Department of the Health and Licensing shall
periodically inspect the grease interceptors to ensure the proper maintenance
and operation of the interceptors.
(1971 Code § 22-25)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation is
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(1971 Code § 22-26)
TITLE 11: BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
11-1-1:   Maximum Number Of Occupants In Dwelling Units
11-1-2:   Multi-Family Residential Buildings
11-1-3:   Underground Utility Lines
11-1-1: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS IN DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
      DWELLING UNIT. An apartment or house which can legally be used as a
permanent residence. A room in a hotel or motel which is intended for occupancy
overnight by transients shall not be considered a “dwelling unit”.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room which has an area larger than fifty (50) square
feet and which is not a kitchen, bathroom or closet.
      OCCUPANT. A person who occupies or resides in a dwelling unit for fifteen
(15) or more days in a calendar month.
   B.   Maximum Number Of Occupants: The maximum number of persons who shall be
permitted to be occupants of a dwelling unit shall be one and one-half (11/2)
times the number of habitable rooms in the dwelling unit. For purposes of this
section, a child under one year of age shall not be considered to be a person
and a child less than twelve (12) years of age shall be considered to be one-
half (1/2) a person.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Any owner, manager or lessee of a dwelling unit who
authorizes, allows or permits the number of occupants of a dwelling unit to
exceed the maximum number of occupants permitted under subsection B of this
section shall be in violation of this section. Any person who violates this
section shall, upon conviction be subject to a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00)
for each violation. Each day any violation of this section shall exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 88-4-6C, 4-6-1988)
11-1-2: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   Parking Spaces Designated; Use Regulations:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this subsection, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection A1:
         MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any residential building not owned
by either a Federal, State or local governmental body which has four (4) or
more residential dwelling units. Hotels and motels are not multi-family
residential buildings.
         PARKING LOT. A parking lot located on the same lot as or located
adjacent to a multi-family residential building which is intended for use by
the residents of the multi-family residential building and their guests.
      2.   Parking Spaces Designated; Dimensions: On and after December 1,
1988, all parking spaces within a parking lot must be designated. All such
parking spaces shall be designated either by pavement markings at least four
inches (4") in width or by the placement of bumper guards or wheel guards. Each
parking space shall be at least sixteen feet (16') in length and nine feet (9')
in width and shall open directly on an aisle or driveway at least twelve feet
(12') wide.
      3.   Park Within Designated Space: No vehicle shall be parked in a
parking lot unless such vehicle is parked within a designated parking space.
      4.   Towing Illegally Parked Vehicles: The Village Public Safety
Department shall have the authority to have any vehicle parked in violation of
the provisions of this subsection towed in accordance with Village ordinances,
rules and regulations relating to the towing of illegally parked vehicles (See
section
8-2-3 of this Code).
      5.   Signs Posted; Specifications: On and after December 1988, the owner
and manager of each multi-family residential building which has a parking lot
shall post and maintain a sign at least twenty four inches (24") in height by
thirty six inches (36") in width in a conspicuous place in the parking lot.
Such sign shall be at least four feet (4') from the ground but less than eight
feet (8') from the ground and shall be either illuminated or painted with
reflective paint, or both. The sign shall state that parking is permitted in
designated spaces only and that any vehicle not parked in a designated space in
the parking lot shall be subject to being towed.
      6.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this subsection
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than seventy five
dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. Each day that a violation of a provision of this subsection occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 88-10-5E, 10-5-1988)
   B.   Snow Removal From Apartment Building Parking Lots:
      1.   Application Of Provisions:
         a.   The provisions of this subsection shall not a apply to buildings
which have three (3) or fewer dwelling units.
         b.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to an apartment
building which is under condominium ownership as provided in the Illinois
Condominium Property Act (765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.)
      2.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this subsection:
         APARTMENT BUILDING. A residential building which contains four (4) or
more separate dwelling units.
         MANAGER. An agent or independent contractor of the owner of an
apartment building who provides management services for the owner. Services
such as the rental or the leasing of apartments, janitorial services, and
rental collection services shall be considered to be management services which
shall make the person furnishing such services a “manager” for purposes of this
subsection.
         OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, has
legal or equitable title to an apartment building.
         PARKING LOT OR APARTMENT BUILDING PARKING LOT. An outdoor or uncovered
parking lot which is designated or intended for use by residents of an
apartment building.
         TWO INCH SNOWFALL. A snowfall which is reported by a Federal, State or
local governmental agency as being two inches (2") or more at Chicago-O’Hare
International Airport.
      3.   Removal By Owner Or Manager:
         a.   Removal Required:
             (1)   Whenever there is a snowfall of two inches (2") or more, the
parking lot of an apartment building shall be plowed or snow shall otherwise be
removed from the parking lot of such an apartment building within two (2) hours
after the snowfall ends, so as to allow motor vehicles to make use unimpeded by
snow or ice of: a) the driveways leading to and from the parking lot to the
public street; b) any fire lanes located within the parking lot or alongside
the apartment building; and c) the driving lanes located in the parking lot
which are used to access parking spaces in the parking lot.
             (2)   Whenever there is a snowfall of two inches (2") or more, the
parking lot of an apartment building shall be plowed or snow shall otherwise be
removed from the parking lot of the apartment building within two (2) hours
after the snowfall ends so as to allow the waste disposal service that removes
trash, garbage, and other refuse from the apartment building to have access
unimpeded by snow or ice to the dumpsters and any other receptacles where
trash, garbage and other refuse from the apartment building are deposited prior
to pick up by the waste disposal service.
         b.   Responsibility Of Owner And Manager: The owner and any manager of
the apartment building shall be jointly and severally responsible for the
plowing or other removal of snow as required by subsection B3a this section.
         c.   Penalty: If an apartment building parking lot is not plowed or
snow otherwise removed from the parking lot as required by subsection B3a of
this section, the owner and/or any manager of the apartment building, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
for each offense. A separate offense shall be considered to have been committed
for each twelve (12) hour period, or part thereof, that an apartment building
parking lot is not plowed or snow is not otherwise removed from the apartment
building parking lot as required by subsection B3a of this section.
      4.   Removal By Village; Costs A Lien:
         a.   Removal By Village: If the parking lot of an apartment building
is not plowed or snow is not otherwise removed from the parking lot of an
apartment building so as to permit motor vehicles to make unimpeded use of the
parking lot as required by subsection B3a of this section within four (4) hours
after the snowfall ends, the Village Director of Public Works may, but shall
not be obligated to, have the parking lot plowed or to otherwise have the snow
removed from the parking lot.
         b.   Costs A Lien:
             (1)   If the Director of Public Works has an apartment building
parking lot plowed or snow otherwise removed from an apartment building parking
lot, as provided in subsection B4a of this section, then the costs incurred by
the Village in having the parking lot plowed or the snow otherwise removed from
the parking lot shall be recoverable from the owner of the apartment building,
and the Village shall have a lien on the real estate on which the apartment
building is located for the cost of plowing or other snow removal; provided,
that within ninety (90) days after the date on which the plowing or other snow
removal occurred, the Village files notice in the Office of the Cook County
Recorder that the Village has a lien for the costs and expenses the Village
incurred in plowing or otherwise removing snow from the parking lot of the
apartment building, plus interest on the amount of the costs and expenses at a
rate of one percent (1%) per month, or part thereof, from the date the costs
and expenses were incurred.
             (2)   The notice of lien filed pursuant to subsection B4b(1) of
this section must include:
               (A)   A description of the property sufficient for
identification thereof;
               (B)   The amount of the costs and expenses incurred by the
Village in plowing the apartment building parking lot or otherwise removing
snow from the apartment building parking lot; and
               (C)   The date or dates when the costs and expenses were
incurred by the Village.
             (3)   The lien provided in this subsection B4b may be enforced by
proceedings to foreclose as in the case of mortgages or mechanic’s liens. A
suit to foreclose the lien shall be commenced within three (3) years after the
date the notice of lien was filed in the Office of the Cook County Recorder.
             (4)   Upon payment of the costs and expenses as set forth in the
notice of lien, the lien shall be released by the Village, and the Village
shall tender a release of the lien to the owner of the apartment building in a
form which may be filed of record in the Office of the Cook County Recorder.
(Ord. 2001-1-10C, 1-10-2001)
   C.   Outside Lighting Requirements:
      1.   Definition: As used in this subsection, the term “multiple-family
dwelling” shall mean any dwelling that is either owned, rented, leased, let or
hired out to be occupied, or is occupied, as the residence or home of three (3)
or more families living independently of each other.
      2.   Requirements:
         a.   The owner and manager of every multiple-family dwelling shall
install and maintain a light or lights at or near the outside of the side of
the building which is adjacent to an alleyway which shall, in the aggregate,
provide not less than seventy five (75) watts incandescent illumination for the
alleyway.
         b.   The lights shall be kept illuminated from sunset every day to
sunrise on the day following.
         c.   The owner or manager shall determine the actual location, design
and nature of the installation of such light or lights to meet practical,
aesthetic and other considerations so long as the minimum level of illumination
is maintained.
(Ord. 94-4-6M, 4-6-1994)
11-1-3: UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES:
   A.   New Utility Lines Not In A Public Right-Of-Way:
      1.   Underground Lines Required: All utility lines installed after the
effective date hereof that are not within a public right-of-way shall be
installed underground. For purposes of this subsection, a "utility line" is a
cable, wire, pipe, or other form of conduit used to transmit or convey
electricity, natural gas, oil, water, sewage and similar substances. A wire,
cable or line used to transmit telephone, telegraph, television, streaming,
and/or internet services is a "utility line". When a utility line is located in
an underground conduit, it may only be replaced by a utility line located in
the same underground conduit.
      2.   Waivers: Where, because of unusual circumstances, it is either not
reasonably possible to install a utility line underground or where the cost of
underground installation of a utility line will be so great as to make it
economically unfeasible to install the utility line underground, the Director
of Public Works may waive the requirements of subsection A.1. of this section
upon written request submitted by the person claiming the existence of the
unusual circumstance. In the event such a request is made, copies of the
request shall be forwarded to the Village President along with a copy of the
Director's decision granting or denying the request. Any request for waiver
submitted pursuant to this subsection A.2. shall describe in reasonable detail
why there are unusual circumstances which either make it not reasonably
possible to install a utility line underground or which make it economically
unfeasible to install a utility line underground. Before acting on a request
for a waiver, the Director may require the person making the request to submit
documents and other evidence to substantiate the claim of unusual
circumstances.
      3.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this subsection
shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each
day that a violation of this subsection is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense.
   B.   Certain Utility Lines Located In The Public Right-Of-Way To Be
Underground:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this subsection, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection B1:
         ABUTTING RIGHT-OF-WAY. That portion of the public right-of-way, title
to which will vest in the owners of the lot, parcel or tract upon which the
building or structure is located in the event the public right-of-way were to
be abandoned or vacated.
         BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure for which an
occupancy permit is required and which is not a single-family or two family
residence.
         UTILITY LINE. A cable, wire, pipe, or other form of conduit used to
transmit or convey electricity, natural gas, oil, water, sewage or similar
substances. A wire cable or line used to transmit telephone or telegraph
messages is a “utility line”.
      2.   Underground Lines Required; Exemptions: After the effective date
hereof, no occupancy permit shall be issued for any building or structure
unless the utility lines located within the abutting right-of-way are installed
and/or relocated underground; provided, however, that such relocation and/or
installation shall not be required for utility lines belonging to the Central
Telephone Company, Commonwealth Edison Company or the Illinois Bell Telephone
Company in the event that the utility company which owns such a line refuses to
permit the line to be installed or relocated underground.
      3.   Waivers: Where, because of unusual circumstances, it is either not
reasonably possible to install or relocate a utility line underground or where
the cost of underground installation or relocation of a utility line will be so
great as to make it economically unfeasible to install or relocate the utility
line underground, the Director of Public Works may waive the requirements of
subsection B2 of this section upon written request submitted by the person
claiming the existence of the unusual circumstance. In the event such a request
is made, copies of the request shall be forwarded to the Village President
along with a copy of the Director’s decision granting or denying the request.
Any request for waiver submitted pursuant to this subsection B3 shall describe
in reasonable detail why there are unusual circumstances which either make it
not reasonably possible to relocate or install a utility line underground or
which make it economically unfeasible to relocate or install a utility line
underground. Before acting on a request for a waiver, the Director may require
the person making the request to submit documents and other evidence to
substantiate the claim of unusual circumstances.
(Ord. 85-7-3E, 7-3-1985; amd. Ord. 86-5-7G, 5-7-1986; Ord. 2025-2-10B, 2-10-
2025)
CHAPTER 2: BUILDING CODES
Section
11-2-1:   Adoption Of Codes By Reference
11-2-2:   Building Code
11-2-3:   Residential Code
11-2-4:   Property Maintenance Code
11-2-5:   Electrical Code
11-2-6:   Mechanical Code
11-2-7:   Energy Code
11-2-8:   Fire Code
11-2-9:   Boiler And Pressure Vessel Code
11-2-10:   Additional Codes Adopted
11-2-11:   Enforcement And Penalty
11-2-1: ADOPTION OF CODES BY REFERENCE:
The erection, construction, repair, alteration, maintenance and occupancy of
all buildings and structures shall be in compliance with the provisions of the
codes referenced in this chapter, which are adopted by reference and
incorporated as if fully set forth herein, with the amendments, additions,
deletions and modifications provided herein.
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-2: BUILDING CODE:
The 2024 edition of International Building Code, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., including Appendices E, G, H, K5, K6, K7, K9
and K10, which is adopted by reference, with the following amendments,
additions, deletions and modifications:
Section 507.2 is deleted in its entirety.
Chapter 5 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   Section 510 Basements.
   510.1 General. Buildings of other than use group R-3 shall be provided with
at least one stair access direct from the exterior to a basement for fire
department use. One such access shall be provided for each 25,000 sq. ft. of
basement area or fraction thereof. The stairway(s) shall be constructed in
accordance with sections 1009.4, 1009.5 and 1009.6.
   Table 601 is amended to provide a minimum fire resistance rating of 2 hours
for the following structural elements indicated as one hour or less; structural
frame, bearing walls and floor construction.
   Section 705.3 is amended by deleting the exception for Type 5 construction.
   Section 706.6 is amended by deleting exceptions 1 through 5.
Section 708.1 is amended by modifying #2 to read as follows:
   2.   Walls separating tenant spaces in all use groups.
Section 708.4 is amended to read as follows:
   708.4 Continuity. Fire partitions shall extend from the top of the
foundation or floor/ceiling assembly below to the underside of the floor or
roof sheathing, slab or deck above. The supporting construction shall be
protected to afford the required fire-resistance rating of the wall supported.
Section 708.4 is amended by deleting exceptions 1 through 6.
Section 903.2.1.1 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.1.2 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.1.3 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.1.4 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq,
ft.
Section 903.2.1.5 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.2 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft. and by deleting the exception.
Section 903.2.3 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.6 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.7 is amended by adding "except one- and two-family dwellings".
Section 903.2.8 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft. and by deleting sections 903.2.8.1 and 903.2.8.2.
Section 903.2.9.1 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.10.1 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000
sq. ft.
Section 903.2.13 is amended by adding the following to Table 903.2.13:
 
304.1 Use group B buildings with fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq. ft.
306.3 Use group F-2 buildings with fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq. ft.
306.4 Use group U buildings with fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq. ft.
 
Section 903.3.5 is amended by adding the following:
   Only double check detector fire protection backflow prevention assemblies
are allowed. Reduced pressure principle back flow preventers shall not be
allowed on fire protection systems.
Section 905.3 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   905.3.8 Parking structures. Parking structures, both open and enclosed,
shall be equipped throughout with Class I manual dry standpipes provided that
the hose connections are located as required for Class II standpipes in
accordance with section 905.5.
Section 905 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   905.11 Air release. Dry standpipe systems with fire department connections
shall be equipped with an approved air purging valve at the highest point in
the system.
Section 907.3 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   907.3.6 Type. Manual fire alarm boxes shall be of the dual action type.
Section 907 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   907.20 Sequence of alarm. Upon activation from a single device the system
alarm notification shall operate on the alarm floor, the floor above and the
floor below for a period of five (5) minutes at which time the entire building
shall go into alarm notification mode. In the event more than one device is
activated the entire building is to go into alarm notification mode.
Section 911.1 is amended by adding the following to #11:
   A single action type start button for pump testing shall be provided on the
fire pump status indicator panel. When actuated the pump must start-up, run
through a test cycle and shut down automatically.
Section 911.1 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   16.   A key box with all keys {'{'}master keys) to the building's door
locks. Each key is to be tagged with its purpose.
   17.   Doors shall not interfere with the viewing and use of the systems and
controls contained within the command center.
Section 911 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   911.2 Plans. Plans and schematics must be submitted for approval and shall
indicate the equipment controls, status indicator panels and layout and
construction of the command center.
   911.3 Enclosure. Walls enclosing the fire command center shall be a minimum
2 hour fire resistive construction.
Chapter 9 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   Section 913 Fire Department Access
   913.1 Fire Department access. When the access to or within a building,
structure or area is unduly difficult because of secured openings or where
immediate access is necessary for life saving or firefighting purposes, the
Code Official may require a key box to be installed in an approved accessible
location. The key box shall be a type approved by the fire official and shall
contain keys to gain access as required by the fire official.
   Table 1017.1 is amended to be applicable to all occupant loads and to be not
less than one (1) hour fire resistance rated.
   Section 1020.1 is amended by deleting exception 5.
   Section 1208.2 is amended to substitute eight (8) feet as the minimum
ceiling height and allow bathrooms, toilet rooms and storage rooms to have a
minimum height of 7 feet 6 inches.
Chapter 15 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   Section 1511 Roof Top Anchors
   1511.1 General. All Buildings 4 stories or higher shall be provided with
fire fighter roof top anchors in accordance with sections 1511.2 through 1511.
7 for the purpose of attaching fire fighter lift lines. Only approved anchors
and anchor fittings shall be used. Anchors are to be in the shape of a 2 1/
2 inch inside diameter eye bolt with shoulder and designed for attachment to
the roof structure.
   1511.2 Material. Anchor material shall be of corrosion resistant material
and have an ultimate tensile strength of not less than 55,000 psi, with an
elongation of at least 25% in two inches. Machined fastenings and other
fittings shall be of the same material as the forgings to which they are
attached except that machined parts of stainless steel may be of AISI type 303
or 316 or ASTM designation A582-67 type 303 or 316. The material shall conform
to one of the following specifications; Nickel-copper alloy-ASTM 8164-61 class
A Stainless Steel - AISI type 304, SAE type 30304, AISI type 316, ASTM
designation A314-63 types 304 and 306.
   1511.3 Location. Anchors shall be set in pairs with the first anchor set
back 15 feet from the face of the exterior wall and the second anchor being
located 3 feet behind and 2 feet to the side of the first anchor. Anchor pairs
shall be spaced at not more than 50 foot intervals around the perimeter of the
building.
   1511.4 Loads. All anchors and anchor fittings as a unit shall be capable of
withstanding the following loadings, of which at least two units shall be
tested under actual laboratory conditions.
      1511.4.1 A tension pull without fracture of 15,000 pounds applied at 90
degrees from the vertical.
      1511.4.2 A drop test with a 500 pound rigid weight falling a distance of
4 feet without fracture of the anchor or anchor fittings.
      1511.4.3 The supporting roof structure shall be capable of resisting a
load of 15,000 pounds applied to the eye of the anchor at 90 degrees from the
vertical.
   1511.5 Testing. Anchors and anchor fittings shall be tested in accordance
with Chapter 17 of this code.
   1511.6 Maintenance. Fire fighter life line anchors shall be maintained in a
good and safe condition without obstructions.
   1511.7 Inspections. Within two years of installation and at least every five
years thereafter all anchors and anchor connections shall be subjected to a
critical examination by a structural engineer registered in the State of
Illinois, employed by the building's owner or owner's agent. Said engineer
shall prepare and submit to the fire official a written report on the
structural condition of the anchor assemblies and its supports.
Section 1805.4.3 is deleted in its entirety.
Section 2702.1 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   2702.1.3 Status indicators. Status indication of normal power on and
emergency power on shall be provided at the Fire Command Center generator
control panel.
   2702.1.3 Remote start. A single action start switch shall be provided at the
Fire Command Center generator panel for test run of the generator. When
activated the generator shall start, cycle through the test run period and shut
down automatically.
   2702.1.4 Trouble alarm. A remote trouble condition shall be activated at the
fire department alarm center when the generator is taken out of service.
Chapter 27 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   2702.4 Generator room. Emergency and standby power generator(s) located
within a building shall be in a room with a minimum 2 hour fire resistance
rating.
Section 3001 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   3001.5 Emergency lighting. In all passenger and freight elevator cars a
battery back-up emergency lighting system with a minimum of two lamps shall be
provided. The emergency lighting shall activate within 10 seconds of a primary
power failure and operate for a minimum duration of three (3) hours.
   3001.6 Pit lighting. A permanent switched light powered by the buildings
power supply shall be provided in the elevator pit.
   3001.7 Emergency communication. Two-way emergency communication shall be
provided between the elevator cab and the Fire Command Center where provided.
   3001.8 Capacity. The minimum weight capacity of an elevator cab shall be
3500 lbs.
Section 3003 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   Two way communication. In addition to any other communication systems
required for an elevator car, a two way voice communication system shall be
provided between the car and the fire panel.
Section 3105 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   3305.5 Height. Awnings and canopies over driving lanes, aisles, or fire
lanes must have a clear height from the surface below to the lowest element
above of at least 14 feet. Section 3304 is amended by adding thereto the
following:
   3304.1.5 Fire hydrants. Operable and accessible fire hydrant(s) shall be
available for fire department use prior to building construction proceeding
above grade level as approved by the fire official.
   3304.1.6 Access road. Prior to building construction a road or access lane
of sufficient load bearing capacity to support fire department apparatus shall
be installed and maintained as approved by the fire official.
   Section 3310.1 is amended to substitute "12 feet" for "50 feet" and "2
stories" for "four stories".
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-3: RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The 2024 edition of the International Residential Code, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., including Appendices A, B, C, D, F, G, I, J,
K, M, N, O and Q, is adopted by reference to regulate the construction of one-
family and two-family (duplex) dwellings only, including their accessory
structures, with the following amendments, additions, deletions and
modifications:
Section R101.1 is amended to read as follows:
   R101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Residential Code of
One- and Two-Family dwellings of the Village of Rosemont, Illinois, hereinafter
referred to as "this code".
Section R101.2 is amended to read as follows:
   R101.2 Scope. The provisions of the International Residential Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement,
enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location,
removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family dwellings not more than
three (3) stories in height with a separate means of egress and their accessory
structures.
Section R104.10.1 is deleted in its entirety.
Section R105.2 is amended by deleting the following from the list of
exceptions:
      
Section R106.1 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R106.1. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design
professional as required by applicable state law for the following:
   1.   New house construction.
   2.   Additions of occupiable or habitable space in excess of 119 sq. ft. in
area (except screen rooms).
   3.   Alterations with a valuation in excess of $30,000.
   4.   Where deemed appropriate by the code official for unique construction
or circumstances.
   Exception: The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that reviewing of construction documents is not necessary
to obtain compliance with the code.
Section R109.1.4 is amended by adding the following:
   R109.1.4.1 Insulation inspection. After the approved rough framing
inspection and prior to the wall and ceiling covering being installed, the
insulation installation shall be inspected.
Section R109.5 is added to read as follows:
   R109.5 Prefabricated construction. All elements of prefabricated
construction are to be readily accessible and visible for inspection on site.
Section R110.1 is amended to read as follows:
   R110.1 Use and occupancy. No building or structure shall be furnished, used
or occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a
building or structure or portion thereof shall be made until the code official
has issued a certificate of occupancy therefore and provided herein. The
remainder of section R110.1 shall remain unchanged.
Table R301.2(1) is amended as follows:
   1.   Insert "30 pounds per square foot" below the column titled "Ground Snow
Load".
   2.   Insert "115 miles per hour'' below the column titled "Wind Speed".
   3.   Insert "B" below the column titled "Seismic Design Category".
   4.   Insert "Severe" below the column titled "Weathering".
   5.   Insert "42 inches" below the column titled "Frost Line Depth".
   6.   Insert "Moderate to heavy" below the column titled ''Termite".
   7.   Insert "-4 degrees Fahrenheit" below the column titled "Winter Design
Temp".
   8.   Insert "Yes" below the column titled "Ice Barrier Underlayment
Required".
   9.   Insert "See applicable Village Code" below the column titled "Flood
Hazards".
   10.   Insert "1700" below the column titled "Air Freezing Index".
   11.   Insert "47 Degrees Fahrenheit" below the column titled "Mean Annual
Temperature".
Table R301.5 is amended by inserting "40" in the cross section of the column
titled "Live Load" and the row entitled "Sleeping Rooms".
Section R302.1 is amended by deleting the exceptions.
Section R302 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R302.2 Separation from accessory buildings. A detached accessory building
shall be separated from the dwelling by a minimum of six (6) feet, eave to
eave.
   Exception: The separation distance of a detached garage may be reduced to a
minimum of three (3) feet provided any point on the interior wall or roof of a
detached garage within ten (10) feet of the dwelling is protected by a minimum
of 5/8 inch fire-rated drywall and provided no openings in the exterior wall of
the accessory building are closer than six (6) feet to the dwelling.
Section R303 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R303.9 Basement light and ventilation. Natural light and ventilation area
equal to 2% of the floor area shall be provided in unfinished basements.
Section R305.1 is amended by substituting 7 feet, 6 inches for 7 feet.
Section R307 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R307.3 Privacy required. Every water closet, bathtub or shower required by
this code shall be in a room which will afford privacy to the user.
Section R309.1 is amended by substituting "1-3/4 inches" for "1-3/8 inches".
Section R309.1 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R301.1.3 Attic access. All attic access opening in rated garage ceilings
shall be constructed so as to maintain a 20 minute fire rating.
Section R309.2 is amended to read as follows:
   R309.2 Separation required. The garage shall be separated from the residence
and its attic area by not less than 5/8 inch type X gypsum board applied to the
garage side. Garages beneath habitable rooms shall be separated from the rooms
above by not less than 5/8 inch type X gypsum board or equivalent. Where the
separation is a floor-ceiling assembly, the structure supporting the separation
shall also be protected by not less than 5/8 inch type X gypsum board or
equivalent. Steel columns and beams shall be protected by not less than 5/
8 inch type X gypsum board or equivalent.
Section R309.3 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R309.3.1 Gas curb. The floor of an attached garage shall be at least 6
inches below the finished floor elevation of the dwelling or be provided with a
curb or other approved barrier.
Section R310.1 is amended by substituting "36 inches" for "44 inches".
Section R310.2.1 is amended by substituting "36 inches" for "44 inches".
Section R311.4.3 is amended by deleting exception #1.
Section R317.2 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   When the units on both sides of a dwelling unit separation are protected by
an automatic sprinkler system, the separation wall fire resistance rating may
be reduced to not less than one hour. Such wall shall not contain plumbing,
mechanical equipment, ducts or vents and electrical installations shall be in
accordance with section R317.3.
Section R319.1 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   8.   All exterior wood porches, decks, stairs and ramps.
Section R319.1.4 is amended by adding the following:
   Wood columns and posts shall not be embedded in concrete.
Chapter Three is amended by adding thereto the following section:
Section R325 Automatic Fire Sprinkler System (See also sections 11-2-8 (Section
903.6.2.1), 11-5-1 and 11-5-2 of this title)
   R325.1 General. An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed in
accordance with this section.
   R325.2 Detached dwelling. Any newly constructed dwelling 4,000 square feet
or more in gross floor area shall be provided with an automatic fire sprinkler
system. Gross floor area is defined as the floor area within the inside
perimeter of the exterior walls of the building, exclusive of basement,
attached garage less than 650 sq. ft. in size, screen rooms less than 240 sq.
ft., shafts, courts, without deduction for corridors, hallways, stairways,
closets, the thickness of interior walls, columns or other features.
   R325.3 Townhouse dwelling. An approved automatic fire sprinkler system shall
be installed in townhouse units in accordance with section 903.3.1 of the
International Building Code, 2006 edition.
   R325.4 Installation. An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be a system
designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 13-02, NFPA 13D-02 or NFPA 13R-
02.
   R325.5 Retroactivity. Any detached dwelling constructed after and not
required to install an automatic fire sprinkler system per section R325.2 shall
install such a system should the building be added onto resulting in a gross
floor area of 4,000 sq. ft. or greater.
Section R402.1 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R402.1.1 Stoop foundation. A foundation system below frost or wing walls
shall be provided for a porch, terrace slab, concrete or masonry steps and
stoops which adjoin the foundation.
Section R402.1 is deleted in its entirety as wood foundations are prohibited.
Section R403.1 is amended by deleting any reference to wood foundations.
Section R403.1.1 is amended by adding thereto the following: The minimum size
footing shall be 18 inches. All footings shall have a minimum 2 inch by 4 inch
keyway to be centered under the wall.
Section R403.1.6 is amended by deleting exceptions 1, 2 and 3 thereby
prohibiting the use of foundation anchor straps as anchor bolts and requiring
all walls to be anchored to the foundation.
Section R403.2 is deleted in its entirety as wood footings are prohibited.
Section R403.3 is deleted in its entirety as shallow foundations are
prohibited.
Section R404 is amended by deleting any reference to masonry foundation walls,
thereby prohibiting their use.
Section R404.2 is deleted in its entirety as wood foundation walls are
prohibited.
Section R405 is amended by deleting any reference to wood or masonry
foundations as they are prohibited.
Section R406 is amended by deleting any reference to wood or masonry
foundations as they are prohibited.
Section R407 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R407.4 Prohibited columns. Wood columns shall be prohibited below grade
elevation (in basements and crawl spaces) unless approved by the code official
because of special circumstances. Steel posts and columns supporting floor
framing shall be a minimum 3 inches in diameter and filled with concrete.
Section R408.4 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   The minimum clearance between the ground below and the floor joist above
shall be 30 inches.
Section R408.5 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R408.5.1 Vapor barrier. The soil in a crawl space shall be covered with a
continuous layer of minimum 6-mil polyethylene ground cover lapped a minimum of
12 inches at joints and extended to all foundation walls enclosing the crawl
space. A continuous topping of stone ballast shall be placed uniformly over the
cover to a depth of at least 2 inches.
   Figure R502.2 is amended to require all headers and trimmer joists to be
doubled and all joists to header connections to be with approved joist hangers
or ledgers.
Section R502.7.1 is amended by substituting "8 inches" for "12 inches".
Section R504 is deleted in its entirety as floors on ground are prohibited.
Section R506.1 is amended by substituting "4 inches" for "3-1 /2 inches".
Section R506.2.2 is amended by deleting the exception and to read as follows:
   R506.2.2 Base. A 4-inch thick base course consisting of compacted clean
gravel, crushed stone or crushed blast-furnace slag passing a 2-inch sieve
shall be placed on the prepared subgrade when the slab is below grade. Pea
gravel is prohibited below slabs unless contained.
Section R506.2.3, exception 1 is amended by changing garage to detached garage,
thereby requiring an approved vapor retardant for attached garages.
Section R602.3.2 is amended by deleting the exception.
Section R602.5 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   Partition walls utilizing fat studs may not exceed 30 inches in width.
Section R602.7 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   Minimum header size shall be doubled 2 inch by 6 inch nominal lumber.
Section R602.7.1 is amended to read as follows:
   R602.7.1 Wood structural panel box headers. Wood structural panel box
headers shall be constructed in accordance with Figure R602.7.2 and Table
R602.7.2. The use of plywood box headers shall be by special permission of the
code official and then limited to accessory buildings and structures.
Section R602.8, #4 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   Approved materials shall comply with ASTM E119 and ASTM E814.
Section R602.8.1 is amended by substituting a depth to thickness ratio of 4 to
1 for the ratio 6 to 1.
Section R602.8.1 is amended by deleting any reference to baits or blankets of
mineral or glass fiber or other non-rigid material used as fireblocking as they
are prohibited.
Section R602.8.1.1 is deleted in its entirety.
Section R702.5 is amended to read as follows:
   R702.5 Other finishes. Wood veneer paneling and hardboard paneling shall be
placed on wood or cold-formed steel framing spaced not more than 16 inches on
center. All wood veneer and hardboard paneling shall have not less than one-
half inch gypsum board backer. Wood veneer paneling not less than one-fourth
inch nominal thickness shall conform to ANSI/HPVA HP-1. Hardboard paneling
shall conform to ANSI/AHA A 135.5.
Section R802.8.1 is amended by substituting a depth to thickness ratio of 4 to
1 for the ration 6 to 1.
Section R802.9 is amended to read as follows:
   R802.9 Framing of openings. Openings in roof and ceiling framing shall be
framed with double header and trimmer joists. The header and trimmer joists
shall be of sufficient cross section to support the ceiling joists or rafter
framing into the header. Approved hangers shall be used for the header joist to
trimmer joist connection and to connect the header to the joist or rafter. Tail
joists over 12 feet long shall be supported at the header by framing anchors or
on ledger strips not less than 2 inches by 2 inches.
Section R807 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   R807.2 Fire rating integrity: All attic access installed in rated ceiling
and walls shall be installed so as to maintain the integrity of the rating.
   R807.3 Pull down stair access. Framing in attics provided with pull down
type stair access shall have a minimum uniformly distributed live load for
attics with storage. The stair opening shall be insulated to maintain the
required R-value of the ceiling.   
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-4: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The 2024 edition of the International Property Maintenance Code, as published
by the International Code Council, Inc., is adopted by reference with the
following amendments, additions, deletions and modifications:
Section 101.0 is amended to read as follows:
   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code of the Village of Rosemont, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as "this
code".
Section 103 is deleted in its entirety.
Section 109.6 is deleted in its entirety.
Section 302.4 is amended by inserting "8 inches" for the height of weeds.
Section 304.14 is amended by inserting the dates April 1 and December 1
respectively.
Section 602.3 is amended by inserting the dates October 1 and May 31
respectively.
Section 602.4 is amended by inserting the dates October 1 and May 31
respectively.
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-5: ELECTRICAL CODE:
The 2023 edition of the National Electrical Code (NFPA 70), as published by the
National Fire Protection Association, Inc., is adopted by reference with the
following amendments, additions, deletions and modifications:
Article 230.70 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   (D)   Location. The service disconnecting means for single-family detached
and attached dwellings shall be installed either inside or outside of a
building or other structure at a readily accessible location nearest the point
of entrance of the service entrance conductors or a point not exceeding 5 feet
from the point of entrance.
Article 240.60(0) is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following:
   (D)   Renewable Fuses. Renewable link fuses are prohibited.
Article 324 is deleted in its entirety as the use of Flat Conductor Cable (Type
FCC) is prohibited.
Article 326.12 is amended to prohibit the use under a building.
Article 328 is deleted in its entirety and the methods and materials regulated
by this Article are prohibited unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this
Chapter.
Article 334 is deleted in its entirety and the methods and materials regulated
by this Article are prohibited unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this
Chapter.
Article 336 is deleted in its entirety and the methods and materials regulated
by this Article are prohibited unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this
Chapter.
Article 382 is deleted in its entirety and the methods and materials regulated
by this Article are prohibited unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this
Chapter.
Article 394 is deleted in its entirety and the methods and materials regulated
by this Article are prohibited unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this
Chapter.
Article 396 is deleted in its entirety and the methods and materials regulated
by this Article are prohibited unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this
Chapter.
Article 398 is deleted in its entirety and the methods and materials regulated
by this Article are prohibited unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this
Chapter.
Article 604 is deleted in its entirety and the methods and materials regulated
by this Article are prohibited unless specifically allowed elsewhere in this
Chapter.
Article 604 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   604.8 Conditions. Notwithstanding all of the above, manufactured wiring
systems are prohibited except when the following conditions are met:
      (a)   The building within which the system is installed must be use group
B as defined by the International Building Code and have a gross floor area in
excess of 50,000 sq. ft.
      (b)   The system is confined to an accessible space below a raised floor,
except that the secondary distribution cables not in excess of 12 feet in
length shall be allowed to serve all wall receptacles and switches.
      (c)   The voltage drop from the supply panel to the last outlet shall not
exceed 5%.
      (d)   Prior to issuance of a permit for a system, a detailed drawing
prepared by a registered design professional shall be submitted, reviewed and
approved.
      (e)   The system shall be subject to any and all terms and conditions as
may be prescribed by the authority having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-6: MECHANICAL CODE:
The 2024 edition of the International Mechanical Code, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is adopted by reference with the following
amendments, additions, deletions and modifications:
Section 101.1 is amended to read as follows:
   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Mechanical Code of the
Village of Rosemont, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as "this code".
Section 102.2 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   102.2.1 Abandoned systems. Mechanical system or portions thereof that are
abandoned and/or not intended for further use shall be removed or put in a safe
condition as determined by the code official.
Section 106.5 is amended to read as follows:
   106.5 Fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees as established by
ordinance of the Village of Rosemont, have been paid, nor shall an amendment to
a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
Section 106.5.1 is deleted in its entirety.
Section 106.5.2 is deleted in its entirety.
Section 106.5.3 is deleted in its entirety.
Section 108.4 is amended to read as follows:
   108.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Section 602.3 is deleted in its entirety as stud cavity and joist space plenums
are not permitted.
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-7: ENERGY CODE:
The current edition of the International Energy Code, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., as amended by the State of Illinois and as
amended from time to time by the State of Illinois, is adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-8: FIRE CODE:
The 2024 edition of the International Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is adopted by reference with the following
amendments, additions, deletions and modifications:
Section 101.1 is amended by inserting "Village of Rosemont, Illinois" for the
name of jurisdiction.
Section 509.1 is amended by substituting 2 hour for the stipulated 1 hour fire
barriers.
Section 509.1 is amended by adding the following to #11:
   A single action type start button for pump testing shall be provided on the
fire pump status indicator panel. When actuated the pump must start up, run
through a test cycle and shut down automatically.
Section 509 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   509.2 Plans. Plans and schematics indicating the equipment, controls,
panels, layout and construction of the Command Center must be submitted for
approval.
Section 903.2.1.1 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.1.2 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.1.3 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.1.4 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.1.5 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.2 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.3 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.6 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2. 7 is amended by adding thereto "except one and two family
dwellings".
Section 903.2.8 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Sections 903.2.8.1 and section 903.2.8.2 are hereby deleted.
Section 903.2.9.1 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000 sq.
ft.
Section 903.2.10.1 is amended to be applicable to fire areas exceeding 1,000
sq. ft.
Section 903.2.13 is amended by adding the following to Table 903.2.13:
   304.1 Use group B building's fire area exceeding 1,000 sq. ft.
   306.3 Use group F-2 building's fire area exceeding 1,000 sq. ft.
   306.4 Use group U building's fire area exceeding 1,000 sq. ft.
Section 903.3.5 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   Only double check detector fire protection backflow prevention assemblies
are allowed. Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
allowed on fire protection systems.
Section 903.3 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   903.3.7 Fire pumps. Fire pump(s) shall be located in a dedicated room with a
minimum 2 hour fire resistance rating.
Section 903.6 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   903.6.2 Existing buildings and structures. All buildings and structures,
except one and two family dwellings, shall be equipped with an approved
automatic fire sprinkler system when 10,000 sq. ft. in area as a result of
remodeling, connection, penetration, alteration, or addition.
   903.6.2.1 System requirements. All automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be
installed and maintained, in accordance with NFPA pamphlet #13 governing
sprinkler systems. The following requirements shall also apply:
      (a)   any sprinklered structure larger than 10,000 sq. ft. in area shall
have the flow alarm from the sprinkler system connected directly to the
Rosemont Public Safety Department Communication Center.
      (b)   any sprinklered structure larger than 10,000 sq. ft. in area shall
have a minimum of one (1) 1-1/2 inch fire department hose drop from the system,
for each 10,000 sq. ft. of floor area or fraction thereof.
      (c)   an outside audible alarm bell, connected to the flow alarm, shall
be installed and maintained on all automatic sprinkler systems.
      (d)   all fire department connections to the sprinkler system shall be
National Standard thread type.
      (e)   on all automatic sprinkler systems covering 5,000 sq. ft. or more
in area, a jockeypump shall be provided to maintain the system's pressure.
Section 905.3 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   905.3.8 Parking structures. Parking structures, open or enclosed, shall be
equipped throughout with a Class I manual dry standpipe system provided that
the hose connections are located as required for Class II standpipes in
accordance with section 905.5.
Section 905 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   905.11. Air purging. Dry standpipe systems with fire department connections
shall be equipped with an approved air purging valve at the high point of the
system.
   Section 906.9 is amended by substituting "4 feet" for "5 feet" as applicable
to the mounting height of fire extinguishers weighing not more than 40 pounds.
Section 907 is amended by adding thereto the following:
   907.20 Sequence of alarm. Upon activation from a single device the system
alarm notification shall operate on the alarm floor, the floor above and the
floor below for a period of five (5) minutes at which time the entire building
shall go into alarm notification mode. In the event more than one device is
activated the entire building shall go into alarm notification mode.
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-9: BOILER AND PRESSURE VESSEL CODE:
The current edition of the Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, as published by the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers, as adopted by the State of Illinois,
is adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
The following Codes are herein adopted by reference:
   A.   Illinois Accessibility Code, as adopted by the State of Illinois and
its respective agencies.
   B.   Illinois Energy Conservation Code as adopted by the State of Illinois
and its respective agencies.
   C.   Illinois Life Safety Code, NFPA 101, as adopted by the State of
Illinois and its respective agencies.
   D.   The 2024 edition of the Fuel Gas Code, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc.
   E.   The 2024 edition of the Existing Building Code, as published by
theInternational Code Council, Inc.
   F.   The 2024 edition of the Swimming Pool and Spa Code as published by the
International Code Council, Inc. and adopted by the Illinois Department of
Public Health. (Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-2-11: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Administrative Adjudication:
      1.   Violations of the provisions of this chapter are subject to
prosecution under the Village's administrative adjudication proceedings set
forth in Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A of the Village code, as now or hereafter
amended.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from
using other methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this
chapter, including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which
has jurisdiction to consideration of the violation.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, shall,
upon conviction or upon an administrative determination that a violation
occurred, be fined in the amount of less not less two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. Each
twenty-four (24) hour period that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
CHAPTER 3: PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
Section
11-3-1:   Plumbing Code
11-3-2:   Overhead Plumbing; Footing Drains
11-3-3:   Enforcement And Penalty
11-3-1: PLUMBING CODE:
The current edition of the Illinois Plumbing Code, published by the Illinois
Department of Public Health, 77 Ill. Adm. Code, Part 890, and as amended from
time to time, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of the
Village Clerk.
(Ord. 88-1-6E, 1-6-1988)
11-3-2: OVERHEAD PLUMBING; FOOTING DRAINS:
   A.   All new buildings within the Village with basements, floors, rooms or
occupancy areas below ground level at the building site and served by a public
or private sewer system shall have overhead plumbing.
   B.   All footing drains constructed within the Village after December 31,
1970, shall be connected to sump pumps and shall discharge into storm sewers or
drainage ditches. No footing drains or drainage tiles constructed or installed
after December 31, 1970, shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued by the Village for any construction
unless the plans and specifications submitted with the building permit
application indicate that the building has been designed to be constructed in
compliance with requirements of this section.
(Ord. 93-7-14H, 7-14-1993)
11-3-3:    ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Administrative Adjudication:
      1.   Violations of the provisions of this chapter are subject to
prosecution under the Village’s administrative adjudication proceedings set
forth in Title 1, Chapter 4, Article A of the Village Code, as now or hereafter
amended.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not preclude the Village from
using other methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this
chapter, including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the
Circuit Court of Cook County or before another administrative tribunal which
has jurisdiction to consideration of the violation.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, shall,
upon conviction or upon an administrative determination that a violation
occurred, be fined in the amount of less not less two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each twenty four (24) hour period that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
CHAPTER 4: ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND SIMILAR DEVICES
Section
11-4-1:   Documents Adopted
11-4-2:   Conflicting Provisions
11-4-1: DOCUMENTS ADOPTED:
The current edition of the Illinois Elevator Safety Code as adopted by the
State of Illinois and its agencies is hereby adopted for the purpose of
regulating and governing the inspection, operation, maintenance and repair of
elevators, escalators and similar devices in the Village.
(Ord. 2008-9-10A, 9-10-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
11-4-2: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
If there is a conflict between the provisions of this chapter or any of the
documents adopted by reference pursuant to section
11-4-1 of this chapter and any currently existing ordinance, code, rule or
regulation of the Village, the provisions of this chapter or the document
adopted by reference pursuant to section
11-4-1 of this chapter shall govern and control.
(Ord. 2008-9-10A, 9-10-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-12-9A, 12-9-2024)
CHAPTER 5: FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
Section
11-5-1:   Automatic Fire Suppression Systems
11-5-2:   Gas Or Charcoal Grills Restricted; Furniture In Common Areas Of
Condominiums
11-5-1: AUTOMATIC FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
APPROVED. Acceptable by the authority of the Deputy Chief of the Bureau Fire
Suppression of the Rosemont Public Safety Department.
AREA. The floor area of buildings or of sections of buildings divided by
approved fire walls, each such section being considered a separate area.
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER EQUIPMENT. An approved system of pipes with orifices to
apply water automatically to fire.
BASEMENT. Any story of a building where less than half the height between the
floor and ceiling is above the average level of street grade.
FIRE RESISTIVE BUILDINGS. A building in which walls are of approved masonry or
reinforced concrete, and the structural members of which have fire resistive
ratings sufficient to withstand the hazard involved in the occupancy, but not
less than four (4) hour rating for bearing walls, fire walls, party walls,
isolated piers, columns and wall supporting girders; a three (3) hour rating
for walls and girders other than herein specified and for beams, floors and
roofs; and a two (2) hour rating for fire protection in partitions.
   B.   Authority To Establish Rules: Authority is hereby conferred upon the
Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Fire Suppression of the Village Public Safety
Department to promulgate rules for the approval of sprinkler plans, equipment
and installation within the Village. These rules shall be subject to compliance
with the requirements set forth in the NFPA Pamphlet 13 on automatic sprinkler
systems.
   C.   Where Installation Required: Automatic sprinkler approved protection
shall be provided, installed and maintained within the limits of the Village in
the required structures as follows:
      1.   In all new construction herein:
         a.   All industrial occupancies over one thousand (1,000) square feet
in area.
         b.   All business occupancies over one thousand (1,000) square feet in
area.
         c.   All mercantile structures over one thousand (1,000) square feet
in area.
         d.   All educational occupancies over one thousand (1,000) square feet
in area.
         e.   All healthcare facilities.
         f.   All residential occupancies, except single-family, which contain
more than fifteen (15) living units or are more than thirty five feet (35') in
height from grade.
         g.   All new structures not covered in this subsection C1 which are
more than one thousand (1,000) square feet in area.
      2.   In all existing structures when there is any remodeling, alterations
or additions to the structure that will bring the total area of the structure
to ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more.
(Ord. 81-12-16A, 12-16-1981)
      3.   In the following multi-family buildings:
         a.   All multi-family buildings containing four (4) or more dwelling
units for which a building permit for new construction is issued after the
effective date hereof;
         b.   All existing multi-family buildings containing four (4) or more
dwelling units which undergo renovation after the effective date hereof where
the fair market cost of the renovation is more than fifty percent (50%) of the
replacement cost of the building; and
         c.   All multi-family buildings containing four (4) or more dwelling
units which are converted to condominium ownership where the declaration
provided in section 3 and the plat provided in section 5 of the Condominium
Property Act (765 ILCS 605/3 and 605/5, respectively) are recorded after the
effective date hereof.
The automatic sprinkler system or equivalent fire suppression system required
to be installed under this section must be approved by the Public Safety
Department prior to installation as meeting the applicable National Fire
Protection Association standards for the type of building in which the
sprinkler system or equivalent type of fire suppression system is to be
installed and must be installed so that the applicable National Fire Protection
Association standards are met and so that the sprinkler system or equivalent
fire suppression system complies with any other applicable ordinances, rules
and regulations.
(Ord. 2004-7-7G, 7-7-2004)
   D.   System Requirements: All automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with NFPA Pamphlet 13 governing sprinkler systems.
The following requirements shall also apply:
      1.   Any sprinklered structure larger than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet in area shall have the flow alarm from the sprinkler system directly
connected to the Public Safety Department Communications Center.
      2.   Any sprinklered structure larger than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet in area shall have a minimum of one and one-half inch (11/2") fire
department hose drop from the system provided for each ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of area.
      3.   An outside ringer connected to the flow alarm shall be installed and
maintained on all automatic sprinkler systems.
      4.   All fire department connections to the sprinkler system shall be
installed with National Standard threads on piping.
      5.   On all automatic sprinkler systems covering five thousand (5,000)
square feet or more in area, a jockey pump shall be provided to maintain system
pressure.
   E.   Plan Approval And Requirements For Exemption Or Variance:
      1.   No automatic sprinkler systems may be installed or altered in any
building in the Village without express written consent of the Deputy Chief of
the Bureau of Fire Suppression or his designated agent. All plan approval
requests or any requests for variances, substitutions or exemptions must be
delivered to the Deputy Chief in writing.
      2.   The requirements of this subsection shall in no way be misconstrued
to require installation of sprinklers in any vault, room or building where the
application of water will cause or increase the risk of fire or explosion nor
shall it be misconstrued to interfere with any other approved automatic fire
protection equipment.
   F.   Appeals: The owner or occupant of any building covered under this
section or notified by the Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Fire Suppression to
install automatic sprinkler protection under the provisions of this section
may, when it is claimed that the provisions of this section do not apply,
appeal to the Village Board of Trustees, in writing, within thirty (30) days of
such notice.
   G.   Penalties: Any person who violates any terms of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. For the purposes
of this section, each ten (10) days that the violation exists shall constitute
a separate offense. The imposition of any penalty for any offense under the
provisions of this section shall not excuse the violation to continue, and all
such persons cited under this section shall be required to correct all
violations immediately. The application of the penalty provisions of this
subsection shall not be held to prevent the removal of prohibited violations by
the authority having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 81-12-16A, 12-16-1981)
Cross-reference:
   See also section
11-2-3, section R325 and section
11-2-8, section 903.6.2.1 of this title
11-5-2: GAS OR CHARCOAL GRILLS RESTRICTED; FURNITURE IN COMMON AREAS OF
CONDOMINIUMS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall use or maintain a gas or charcoal grill or any open
flame intended for use in cooking on any balcony.
      2.   No person shall use or maintain a gas or charcoal grill or any open
flame intended for use in cooking on or within eighteen inches (18") of a
public right-of-way or on or within eighteen inches (18") of a sidewalk or
walkway which is part of the common elements of a condominium.
      3.   No person shall use or maintain any items of furniture on a sidewalk
or walkway or within a hallway which is a part of the common elements of a
condominium.
   B.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first
offense and to a fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the second and any subsequent
offense. Each day that a violation of this section occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 95-10-4G, 10-4-1995)
ARTICLE A: PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY
Section
11-5A-1:   Fire And Emergency Safety In Commercial Places Of Assembly
11-5A-2:   Fire Prevention Regulations For Places Of Assembly
11-5A-3:   Emergency Lighting
11-5A-1: FIRE AND EMERGENCY SAFETY IN COMMERCIAL PLACES OF ASSEMBLY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
COMMERCIAL PLACE OF ASSEMBLY. Any privately owned banquet hall, meeting room,
exhibition hall, arena or similar place of assembly with a capacity of at least
three hundred (300) persons. The capacity of a commercial place of assembly
shall be determined in accordance with the 2018 edition of the Life Safety Code
published by the National Fire Protection Association, as amended from time to
time.
EVENT. Any meeting, performance, concert, banquet, exhibit or other similar
activity which occurs at a commercial place of assembly.
   B.   Inspections Prior To Start Of Event: Immediately prior to the start of
any event in a commercial place of assembly, the owner or manager of the
commercial place of assembly must inspect every exit from the commercial place
of assembly and every exit from the building which the commercial place of
assembly is located. If this inspection reveals that any such exits are
blocked, the owner or manager may not allow the event to begin until all such
exits are cleared and made readily accessible to persons who will be attending
the event.
   C.   Announcements Regarding Exits:
      1.   Immediately after the start or opening of any event, the owner or
manager of the commercial place of assembly shall make an announcement asking
that persons attending the event familiarize themselves with the location of
exits which are to be used in case of fire or other emergency. Said
announcement shall be made in substantially the following form:
Ladies and Gentlemen, the (name of the commercial place of assembly) in
cooperation with the Rosemont Public Safety Department would like you to take a
moment to familiarize yourselves with the exits to be used in case of fire or
other emergencies. These exists are located (state the location of the exits).
Thank you.
      2.   If the nature of the event is such that most persons attending the
event will not arrive at the commercial place of assembly within one hour of
one another, then the announcement required by subsection C1 of this section
shall be made by the owner or manager of the commercial place of assembly at
least once every ninety (90) minutes during the time that the event is taking
place.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates the terms of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. For purposes of this
section, each event at which a violation of this section occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 81-12-16A, 12-16-1981)
11-5A-2: FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR PLACES OF ASSEMBLY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
APPROVED. Acceptable by the authority of the Superintendent of Public Safety of
the Village of Rosemont and the applicable codes of the Village.
ENFORCEMENT. Shall designate the act of notification of a violation of this
section, the act of correcting said violation and the subsequent citation or
fine if the violation is not corrected. This will fall under the jurisdiction
of a public safety officer of the Village of Rosemont or his agent.
FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT. Shall include the following: all fire extinguishers,
sprinkler heads, sprinkler system siamese connections, standpipe system valves,
fire hose connections, fire alarms, emergency telephones and fire hydrants.
MERCHANDISING EQUIPMENT. Items used in the set up, display and decoration of
any table, booth or area utilized during a public or private trade show,
exhibit or seminar in a place of assembly.
PLACE OF ASSEMBLY. Any privately owned or operated banquet hall, meeting room,
exhibition hall, arena or similar place of assembly where fifty (50) or more
people are gathered. The maximum capacity of any place of assembly shall be
governed by the 2018 edition of the Life Safety Code, as amended from time to
time.
SET UP. Shall designate all preparations prior to the actual occupancy “show”
hours of any event in a place of assembly. The term shall include the approval
of the physical layout of the area of the event and all operations conducted in
that area.
VILLAGE FIRE CODE. Hereafter referred to as “Code” shall mean the previously
adopted Fire Code of the Village of Rosemont (See section 11-2-8 of this
title).
(Ord. 2015-11-18G, 11-18-2015; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Exits:
      1.   All exits and exitways shall be kept clear and unobstructed during
all hours of occupancy.
      2.   All exit doors must be equipped with approved hardware, operate
freely and be unlocked during hours of occupancy.
      3.   The amount and location of exit doors shall be determined by the
following:
         a.   Class A occupancy (1,000 people or more) shall have at least four
(4) separate exits as remote as possible.
         b.   Class B occupancy (600 to 1,000 people) shall have at least three
(3) separate exits as remote as possible.
         c.   Class C occupancy (0 to 600 people) shall have at least two (2)
separate exits as remote as possible.
      4.   All exits must be appropriately marked and illuminated. If the exit
doors are obstructed from view, directional exit signs must be installed
indicating the path of travel to the exits.
      5.   All exits shall comply with the requirements of the 2018 edition of
the Life Safety Code, regarding places of assembly, and as amended from time to
time.
   C.   Flammable Liquids And Gases: This Code requires that any vehicle
burning Class I fuel that is brought into a place of assembly comply with the
following:
      1.   No liquified petroleum gas tanks may be used or stored in a place of
assembly without express written permission of the Deputy Chief of the Bureau
of Fire Suppression. This shall include, but not be limited to, portable
“propane” tanks. Where it is necessary for an open flamed or heating device to
be demonstrated or displayed, the Bureau of Fire Suppression shall be notified
ahead of time for approval as additional fire protection equipment may be
needed.
      2.   Any quantities of flammable liquids that are kept on the premises
must be approved by the Bureau of Fire Suppression and kept in an approved
safety can.
   D.   Merchandising Equipment:
      1.   All items used in the display and/or decoration of any area, such as
tables, carpets, curtains, backdrops, etc., shall be of noncombustible or fire
retardant material and approved by the Bureau of Fire Suppression. If extension
cords are used in a display or event, they shall be of adequate size, UL
approved and must be in operable condition.
      2.   Excessive quantities of combustible equipment in displays will not
be allowed.
      3.   Trash containers for those in attendance at any event shall be of
noncombustible construction.
   E.   Booths, Aisles And Seating:
      1.   Booths will be arranged, if used, to allow adequate aisles for the
amount of persons in attendance. They shall be approved as per subsection G of
this section.
      2.   Where theater style seating is used, there shall be access aisles
provided for each fourteen (14) rows of seats. The width of aisles shall be in
accordance with subsection G of this section.
      3.   Where banquet seating is used, there shall be an access aisle to
every exit. A fifteen foot (15') radius of clear floor space shall be
maintained around every exit. Aisles shall be in accordance with subsection G
of this section.
   F.   Fire Protection Equipment: All fire protection equipment shall be
clear, unobstructed and in proper working order at all times. All fire
protection equipment shall be visible to those in attendance, and if not
visible, proper signs designating such equipment shall be visible.
   G.   Setup Requirements:
      1.   No smoking will be allowed during the set up of any function in a
place of assembly unless so designated by the Bureau of Fire Suppression. All
floor plans for any functions in a place of assembly that will have an
attendance of two hundred fifty (250) or more persons must be approved by the
Bureau of Fire Suppression thirty (30) days prior to the dates of the function.
      2.   All storage for any functions in a place of assembly shall be in a
separate location, separated by construction, having a two (2) hour minimum
fire rating.
      3.   Access aisles to a booth-type set up shall be a minimum of six feet
(6') wide. Main cross aisles shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') wide. These
widths may be increased depending on the amount of people in attendance.
      4.   Access aisles in a theater-type set up of any function shall be
forty two inches (42") wide and service no more than fourteen (14) seats in any
row. Main aisles in this type of set up shall be five feet (5') wide.
      5.   In banquet-type seating, the maximum amount of persons in the room
shall be one for each fifteen feet (15') of floor area.
   H.   Life Safety Announcements: In any occupancy being used as a place of
assembly where more than three hundred (300) persons are gathered, a life
safety announcement shall be made in accordance with subsection 11-5A-1C of
this article.
   I.   Penalty: Anyone who violates the terms of this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. For purposes of this
section, each day that this violation takes place shall constitute a separate
offense unless a life hazard is present, then each hour shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 81-12-16A, 12-16-1981)
11-5A-3: EMERGENCY LIGHTING:
   A.   Where Required:
      1.   All schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, motels, hotels,
restaurants, clubs, offices, industrial plants, and other places of assembly
that accommodate one hundred (100) persons or more shall be equipped with
emergency lighting.
      2.   All exits, corridors, stairwells, and lobbies leading to an exit
shall be equipped with emergency lighting.
   B.   Separate Systems; Operation:
      1.   All emergency lighting shall be separate and independent to normal
electrical service.
(1971 Code § 11-1)
      2.   Emergency lighting shall either be constant or shall automatically
go into operation when any interruption of the normal electrical service
occurs, such as accidentally thrown switch or a burned out fuse and/or circuit
breaker. Also, emergency lighting shall go into operation within a maximum of
ten (10) seconds and remain in operation for a minimum of ninety (90) minutes
after a normal system failure.
   C.   Compliance With NFPA: Approved emergency lighting shall meet the
requirements set forth in NFPA Pamphlet 101, chapter 5, section 5-9, this being
the 2000 edition thereof.
   D.   Modification Of Regulations: The Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Fire
Suppression shall have the power to modify any of the provisions of this
section upon application in writing by a petitioner regarding the enforcement
of this section. Any revisions thereof granted shall be set forth in writing
and a copy served on the applicant.
(Ord. 81-12-16A, 12-16-1981)
CHAPTER 6: BUILDING NUMBERS
Section
11-6-1:   Numbering System
11-6-2:   Compliance With Provisions
11-6-3:   Application For Number
11-6-4:   Size And Location Of Number
11-6-5:   Penalty
11-6-1: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
The numbering system shall be the present house numbering system in use in the
City of Chicago, which provides for eight hundred (800) numbers to the mile or
one hundred (100) numbers to the six hundred thirty foot (630') block. On north
and south streets, even numbers shall be on the north side and odd numbers
shall be on the south side. Each thirty feet (30') of frontage shall be given a
separate number, as designated by the Director of Building and Code
Enforcement.
(1971 Code § 19-24)
11-6-2: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It is hereby made the duty of the owner, agent or person in possession of any
building in the Village to number it in the manner herein provided.
(1971 Code § 19-25)
11-6-3: APPLICATION FOR NUMBER:
Application for a building number shall be made to the Village Clerk in the
form and manner prescribed in printed applications on file in the Clerk’s
Office, which may be obtained upon request.
(1971 Code § 19-25)
11-6-4: SIZE AND LOCATION OF NUMBER:
Each figure of every number shall be not less than three inches (3") in height
and shall be placed in the most conspicuous and extended part of the front of
the building.
(1971 Code § 19-26)
11-6-5: PENALTY:
Any person being the owner or agent or occupant of any building now erected or
to be erected who shall refuse or neglect to number any building owned or
occupied or represented by him, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a penalty of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and a
similar penalty for every thirty (30) days thereafter that such building shall
be without its number.
(1971 Code § 19-27)
CHAPTER 7: SIGNS AND OTHER ADVERTISING STRUCTURES
Section
11-7-1:   Definitions
11-7-2:   Permit Requirements
11-7-3:   General Requirements
11-7-4:   Exempt Signs
11-7-5:   Prohibited Signs
11-7-6:   Signs In Public Rights-Of-Way
11-7-7:   Ground And Pole Signs
11-7-8:   Wall Signs
11-7-9:   Changing Signs
11-7-10:   Roof Signs
11-7-11:   Illuminated Signs
11-7-12:   Temporary Signs
11-7-13:   Unsafe, Obsolete Or Noncompliance Signs
11-7-14:   Awnings
11-7-15:   Penalty
11-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AWNING. Any structure made of cloth or metal with a metal frame attached to a
building and projecting over a thoroughfare, when the same is so erected as to
permit its being raised to a position flat against the building when not in
use.
CANOPY. Any structure, other than an awning, made of cloth or metal with metal
frames attached to a building, projecting from the wall of a building above an
entrance and extending over a thoroughfare.
CHANGING SIGNS. Outdoor clocks, outdoor barometers, outdoor electric message
centers, outdoor signs and any other sign whose advertisement or message is
changed mechanically.
FACING OR SURFACE. The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the
message is displayed or illustrated.
GROUND SIGN. Any sign supported by uprights or braces placed upon the ground
and not attached to any building.
ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs, or
outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the sign
proper.
INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200°F) and will
not continue to burn or glow at that temperature.
MARQUEE. Any hood or awning of permanent construction projecting from the wall
of a building above an entrance and extending over a thoroughfare.
OTHER ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. Any “marquee”, “canopy”, or “awning”, as defined
herein.
PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
POLE SIGNS. Any and all freestanding signs located atop a pole or other similar
standard.
PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is attached to a building or other structure
and extends more than ten inches (10") beyond the building line established for
said premises by the zoning ordinances or other ordinances or deed restrictions
governing the premises upon which said sign is located.
ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed and maintained wholly upon or over the
roof of any building with the principal support on the roof structure.
SIGN. Every sign, billboard, ground sign, wall sign, roof sign, illuminated
sign, projecting sign, pole sign, changing sign, marquee, awning, and canopy,
and includes any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display,
illustration or insignia used to advertise or promote the interests of any
person when the same is placed out of doors in view of the general public.
TEMPORARY SIGNS. Any sign, banner, pennant, valance, or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light
materials, with or without frames, intended to be displayed for a short period
of time only.
WALL SIGN. All flat signs of solid face construction which are placed against a
building or other structure and attached to the exterior front, rear, or side
wall of any building or other structure.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, repair,
alter, relocate or maintain within the Village any “sign” or “other advertising
structure”, as defined in section 11-7-1 of this chapter, without first
obtaining a permit from the Village Board of Trustees and making payment of the
fee required thereof. All illuminated signs shall, in addition, be subject to
the provisions of the Building Code and the permit fees required thereunder
(See subsection 3-15-1F of this Code).
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for a permit shall be made upon
forms provided by the Village Clerk and shall contain or have attached thereto
the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.
      3.   Position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation to
nearby buildings or structures.
      4.   Two (2) blueprints or ink drawings of the plans and specifications
and method of construction and attachment to the building or in the ground.
      5.   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the structure is
designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by this chapter and all other laws and ordinances of the Village.
      6.   Name of persons, firm, corporation or association erecting the
structure.
      7.   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land to
which or on which the structure is to be erected.
      8.   Any electrical permit required and issued for the sign.
      9.   Insurance policy or bond as required by subsection E of this
section.
      10.   Such other information as the Village Board may determine is
required to show full compliance with this chapter and all other laws and
ordinances of the Village.
   C.   Review Of Application:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Director of Building and Code
Enforcement, after the filing of an application for a permit to erect a sign or
other advertising structure, to examine the plans and specifications and other
data relating to the proposed sign or advertising structure and the premises
upon which it is proposed to erect the sign or other advertising structure, and
to report to the Village Board on whether the proposed sign or advertising
structure will comply with the requirements of this chapter and all other laws
and ordinances of the Village. The Village Board, after reviewing the Director
of Building and Code Enforcement’s report, shall determine whether an erection
permit shall be issued. If the work authorized under a permit has not been
completed within six (6) months after the date of issuance, the permit shall
become null and void.
      2.   The application for a permit for erection of a sign or other
advertising structure in which electrical wiring and connections are to be used
shall be submitted to the Director of Building and Code Enforcement. The
Director shall examine the plans and specifications respecting all wiring and
connections to determine if the same complies with the Electrical Code of the
Village (see section
11-2-5 of this title), and shall report to the Village Board whether the plans
and specifications comply with said Code.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
   D.   Permit And Inspection Fees:
      1.   Permit Fees: Every applicant, before granted a permit hereunder,
shall pay to the Village Clerk the permit fee for each sign or other
advertising structure regulated by this chapter as provided in the Village Fee
Schedule, subsections 3-10-1I, J and K of this Code.
      2.   Annual Inspection Fee: For each sign not advertising a business
existing on the property, the owner thereof shall pay to the Village an annual
inspection fee as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsections
3-10-1J and K of this Code. No inspection fee shall be charged in the same year
a permit fee is paid.
(Ord. 82-4-7B, 4-7-1982; amd. 2019 Code)
   E.   Bond Requirements; Insurance In Lieu:
      1.   Any person lawfully maintaining a sign or other advertising
structure regulated by this chapter at the effective date hereof shall, within
thirty (30) days after said enactment, comply with all the provisions set forth
in this section.
      2.   A liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Illinois conforming to this section
may be permitted in lieu of a bond.
   F.   Revocation Of Permits: All rights and privileges acquired under the
provisions of this chapter are mere permits revocable at any time by the
Village Board, and all such permits shall contain this provision. In the event
that, by action of the Village Board, any permit is revoked, it shall be
unlawful to thereafter allow such sign to continue to remain on the premises,
and it shall be the duty of the owner, agent, or person in possession of the
premises and each of them to remove the same forthwith.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Information Required: Every sign or other advertising structure shall
have painted in a conspicuous place thereon, in letters not less than one inch
(1") in height, the date of erection, the permit number and the voltage of any
electrical apparatus used in connection therewith. In addition, all illuminated
signs and any other signs which use electricity shall be labeled as conforming
to the standards of the United States Bureau of Standards and as having been
approved by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
   B.   Location And Language Restrictions:
      1.   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained as to prevent free
ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape. No sign of any kind
shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
      2.   No sign or other advertising structure as regulated by this chapter
shall be erected at the intersection of any streets in such a manner as to
obstruct free and clear vision or at any location where, by reason of the
position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be
confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device, or which makes use
of the words “Stop”, “Look”, “Drive-In”, “Danger” or any other word, phrase,
symbol or character in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse
traffic.
   C.   Design And Construction Standards: All signs and other advertising
structures shall be designed and constructed to withstand a wind pressure of
not less than forty (40) pounds per square foot of area, and shall be
constructed to receive dead loads as required in the Building Code or other
ordinances of the Village.
   D.   Maintenance Requirements: The owner of any “sign”, as defined and
regulated by this chapter, shall be required to have properly painted at least
once every two (2) years the facing and all parts and supports of the sign,
unless the same is constructed of noncorrosive material, in which event, it
shall be cleaned at least every two (2) years.
   E.   Lighting: Gooseneck reflectors and lights shall be permitted on ground
signs and wall signs; provided, that any lights be installed only in such
manner that the direct rays of such lights be concentrated on the sign and be
prevented from causing a glare on or striking the street or nearby property, or
reflectors shall be provided with proper glass lenses concentrating the
illumination upon the area of the sign so as to prevent glare upon the street
or nearby property.
   F.   Attachment Of Letters And Figures: All letters, figures, characters or
representations in cutout or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with,
attached to, or superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built
or attached to the sign structure.
   G.   Signs Near Public Rights-Of-Way: All signs or other advertising
structures which are constructed adjacent to or within five feet (5') of a
public right-of-way shall have a smooth surface, and no nails, tacks or wires
shall be permitted to protrude therefrom, except electrical reflectors and
devices which may extend over the top and in front of the advertising
structures.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-4: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The provisions and regulations of this chapter shall not apply to the following
signs:
   A.   Nonilluminated real estate signs not exceeding eight (8) square feet in
area which advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which the
signs are located only.
   B.   Nonilluminated professional nameplates not exceeding one square foot in
area.
   C.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection when
cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible materials.
   D.   Traffic or other Municipal signs, legal notices, railroad crossing
signs, danger, and such temporary, emergency or nonadvertising signs as may be
approved by the Village Board.
   E.   Signs which advertise garage sales on the premises upon which the sign
is located (see section 4-42-6 of this Code).
   F.   Lettering and pictures on trucks, automobiles, or semitractor-trailers
which identify only the owner or operator of the vehicle or a product sold by
the owner or operator of the vehicle.
   G.   Signs located on the interior or the exterior of buses.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-5: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Erect, display or maintain within the Village a mobile or portable
sign which is attached to a base that has wheels or any other sign which is not
fixed to a permanent base.
      2.   Erect, maintain or display a sign in any area within the Village
which is zoned for residential use except signs which advertise garage sales or
that a residence is for sale or for rent.
      3.   Paint and/or maintain a sign that is painted directly on the surface
of the walls or roof of any building or structure within the Village. It shall
be unlawful for any person to paint, paste, or post in a similar manner a sign
on any fence, utility pole or other type of standard within the Village.
      4.   Park a motor vehicle or trailer upon which there is an advertising
message or a device which advertises a product or directs persons to the
location of a business or other activity so that the motor vehicle or trailer
is visible from a public right-of-way.
      5.   Erect or maintain any sign which is wholly or partially illuminated
by flashing lights or intermittent lights.
      6.   Erect or maintain any sign which is wholly or partially illuminated
by floodlights or spotlights.
      7.   Erect or maintain any revolving light, revolving beacon or revolving
sign.
      8.   Display upon any sign or other advertising structure any obscene,
indecent, or immoral matter.
      9.   Erect, alter, relocate, or maintain any projecting sign.
      10.   Erect, alter, relocate, or maintain any awning.
      11.   Erect, alter, relocate, or maintain any canopy.
      12.   Erect, alter, relocate, or maintain any marquee.
   B.   All signs not expressly permitted under the provisions of this chapter
shall be prohibited; provided, however, if the Village Board determines that a
proposed sign is substantially similar and is not more objectionable to a type
of sign which is permitted, the Village Board may issue a permit to allow the
proposed sign to be erected. Said sign shall be subject to all provisions of
this chapter which pertain to the type of sign to which it is substantially
similar.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-6: SIGNS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   A.   Purpose: This section is adopted for the following purposes:
      1.   To promote and protect the public safety and welfare of the
residents and businesses located in the Village.
      2.   To enhance the physical appearance of the Village.
      3.   To protect pedestrians and motorists within the Village from damage
or injury caused by distractions, obstructions and hazards created by
commercial, political, or advertising signs that are installed or posted in
public rights-of-way.
      4.   To prevent the proliferation of signs in public rights-of-way which
distract from the development, beauty and aesthetic appeal of the public areas
in the Village.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ADVERTISING SIGN. Any advertising device, poster, notice, or display which
directs attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business.
COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign which identifies, advertises, or directs attention to a
business, commodity, service, activity, idea, slogan or entertainment, or is
intended to induce the purchase of goods, property, or a service, including,
without limitation, any sign naming a brand of goods or service and real estate
signs, as defined in this section.
GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. A sign posted by or on behalf of a unit of local government,
the State of Illinois and the government of the United States, and shall
include, but not be limited to, regulatory signs, directional signs and
identification signs.
POLITICAL SIGN. Signs or posters announcing candidates seeking political office
and/or political issues, and data pertinent thereto.
POST. To erect, attach, install, or affix in any manner including, without
limitation, nailing, tacking, tying, gluing, pasting, painting, staking,
marking, or writing.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire area between property boundaries which is owned
by a government, dedicated to public use, or impressed with an easement for
public use; which is primarily used for pedestrian or vehicular travel; and
which is publicly maintained, in whole or in part, for such use. PUBLIC RIGHT-
OF-WAY includes, without limitation, the street, gutter, curb, shoulder,
sidewalk, sidewalk area, crosswalk, parking or parking strip, planting strip,
hydrant, street sign, traffic sign, traffic control device, utility pole,
lamppost or wire appurtenance thereof, fire alarms, Village owned flowers,
trees or shrubbery in any public place, and any public way.
REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign indicating the availability for sale, rent, or lease
of a lot, building, or portion of a building.
SIGN. A name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to or painted upon nondurable materials, including paper, cardboard,
cloth, plastic, and/or wallboard. Under this section, “sign” also includes
names, identification, description, display or illustrations which are affixed
to or painted on handbills, banners, flags, pennants, balloons, streamers,
spinners, and ribbons. Signs include real estate signs, commercial signs,
political signs, and advertising signs.
   C.   Posting Signs In Public Rights-Of-Way Prohibited: It is unlawful for
anyone to post a sign, direct that a sign be posted or contract for the posting
of any sign, other than a governmental sign, in any public right-of-way located
within the Village except for a directional sign for which a permit has been
issued or which is otherwise allowed pursuant to subsection D of this section.
   D.   Permit For Private Directional Sign:
      1.   A person other than a unit of government may post a sign in the
public right-of-way which identifies or locates the entrance or exit to
premises located along the right-of-way; provided, that each of the following
conditions has been met:
         a.   The sign contains no markings, numbering or lettering other than
that necessary to identify the entrance or exit and, provided
         b.   A permit for the sign has been issued by the Village or the sign
was posted prior to February 1, 2006.
      2.   The Director of Building and Code Enforcement of the Village shall
be authorized to issue any permits for signs allowed under this subsection;
provided, that the applicant for the permit first submits to the Director a
diagram which shows where the sign will be located and a drawing or photograph
which shows how the sign will appear and the dimensions of the sign; and
provided, that the Director determines that: a) the sign is no larger than
reasonably necessary; b) it is impractical for the sign to be located outside
of the right-of-way; and c) the sign otherwise complies with the provisions of
this section and any other applicable ordinance or regulation of the Village.
   E.   Removal Of Signs From Public Right-Of-Way:
      1.   Any sign, other than a governmental sign or sign which is allowed
under subsection D of this section, which is found posted or otherwise affixed
within any public right-of-way in violation of this section is hereby declared
a public nuisance and may be removed at any time by or at the direction of the
Public Safety Department, the Department of Public Works or the Village
President.
      2.   The person who posted or directed the posting of a sign in a public
right-of-way and the person or company advertised or promoted on a sign which
is removed pursuant to subsection E1 of this section, including a candidate
promoted on a political sign, are jointly and severally responsible for the
costs incurred by the Village in the removal of said sign. The cost of removal
shall be deemed to include any incidental expenses, as well as all direct and
indirect costs incurred by the Village in connection with the removal of a
sign.
      3.   Proof that the person or company advertised or promoted on the
handbill or sign, including a candidate promoted on a political sign, had no
actual knowledge and also had no reason to know that said sign was posted or
might be posted within the public right-of-way is an affirmative defense to any
liability which such person may have under subsection E2 of this section for
the cost of removing the sign.
      4.   The Village may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate a violation of this section, including such
actions as may be necessary for the Village to recoup costs incurred in
connection with the removal of signs from public rights-of-way as provided by
subsection E1 of this section.
      5.   If the Village institutes an action to recoup costs incurred in
connection with the removal of signs from public rights-of-way by filing an
action in the Circuit Court of Cook County or another court which has
jurisdiction over such an action, the Village shall also be entitled to recover
the filing fees and other court costs, attorney fees and any other costs
incurred in bringing such action; provided, that the Village gives the person
against whom such an action is brought not less than fourteen (14) days’ notice
of its intent to bring the action.
   F.   Penalties: Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. The costs incurred by the
Village in removing a sign that is in violation of this section may be included
in determining the appropriate amount of the fine to be assessed; provided,
that if a finding is made that such fine takes into account the cost of
removal, then the Village shall not be entitled to bring another action to
recoup or otherwise separately recoup the cost of removal as provided in
subsection E1 of this section. Each twelve (12) hour period such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense with
respect to the computation of fines.
(Ord. 2006-2-1G, 2-1-2006)
11-7-7: GROUND AND POLE SIGNS:
   A.   Ground Signs:
      1.   All ground signs for which a permit is required under this chapter
shall have a surface or facing of incombustible material; provided, however,
that combustible structural trim may be used thereon.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
      2.   All ground signs for which a permit is required under this chapter
shall have a surface or facing less than thirty two (32) square feet in area.
(Ord. 84-7-2, 7-2-1984)
      3.   It shall be unlawful to erect any ground sign with a total height
greater than six feet (6') above the level of the street upon which the sign
faces, or above the adjoining ground level, if such ground level is above the
street level.
      4.   Ground signs shall have an open space not less than two feet (2')
between the base line of said sign and the ground level. This open space may be
filled in with a platform or decorative lattice work which does not close off
more than one-half (1/2) of any square foot of such open space. No ground sign
shall be nearer than two feet (2') to any other sign, building or structure.
      5.   No ground sign shall be nearer the street than the building line
established by law.
      6.   All ground signs shall be securely built, constructed and erected
upon posts and standards sunk at least three feet (3') below the natural
surface of the ground, and shall be supported and braced by timbers or metal
rods in the rear thereof, extending from the top thereof to a point in the
ground at least a distance equal to one-half (1/2) of the height of the sign,
measured along the ground, from the posts or standards upon which the same is
erected.
      7.   All posts, anchors and bracings of wood shall be treated to protect
them from moisture by creosoting or other approved methods when they rest upon
or enter into the ground.
      8.   All ground signs and the premises surrounding the same shall be
maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary, and inoffensive
condition, and free and clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
   B.   Pole Signs:
      1.   The total area of the facing of a pole sign shall not exceed two
hundred (200) square feet.
      2.   It shall bee unlawful to erect any pole sign with a weight greater
than twenty feet (20') above the level of the street which the sign faces or
above ground level, if the level of the ground upon which the sign is erected
is above street level.
      3.   All pole signs and the premises surrounding the same shall be
maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition,
and free and clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish and weeds.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
   C.   Number Of Pole And Ground Signs:
      1.   No more than one ground or one pole sign shall be permitted per lot
of record or per business, whichever is less.
      2.   No person shall be permitted to erect or maintain more than either
one pole sign or one ground sign within the Village.
(Ord. 80-8-20B, 8-20-1980)
11-7-8: WALL SIGNS:
   A.   All wall signs for which a permit is required under this chapter shall
have a surface or facing of incombustible noncorrosive material; provided,
however, that combustible structural trim may be used thereon. Every wall sign,
including the frames, braces and supports thereof, shall be designed by a
structural engineer or manufacturer, and shall be approved by the Village Board
as in compliance with the Village Building Code.
   B.   No wall sign shall cover wholly or partially any wall opening, nor
project beyond the ends or top of the wall to which it is attached, and no wall
sign shall exceed an area of one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
   C.   The front facing of a wall sign shall not be permitted to extend more
than ten inches (10") beyond the surface of the building to which it is
attached, and shall not be attached to a wall at a height of less than ten feet
(10') above the sidewalk or ground.
   D.   No wall sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
   E.   All wall signs shall be safely and securely attached to the building
wall by means of noncorrosive metal anchors, bolts, or expansion screws of not
less than three-eighths inch (3/8") in diameter embedded in said wall at least
five inches (5"); provided, however, that such signs may rest in or be bolted
to strong, noncorrosive heavy metal brackets or saddles set not over six feet
(6') apart, each of which shall be securely fixed to the wall as hereinbefore
provided. In no case shall any wall sign be secured with wire, strips of wood
or nails.
   F.   Not more than one wall sign shall be mounted, attached, or painted upon
any building.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-9: CHANGING SIGNS:
   A.   Changing signs must comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and all applicable ordinances and codes, including the Village Building
Code and Electrical Code.
   B.   No new permit shall be required for alteration of a changing sign
because of painting, repainting, cleaning, maintenance or repair of the sign
which does not involve a structural change. No new permit shall be required for
replacement or repair of the plastic face of a changing sign due to breakage or
deterioration.
   C.   A new permit shall be required if the advertisement or message of a
changing sign is altered.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-10: ROOF SIGNS:
   A.   All roof signs shall be installed or erected in such a manner that no
angle iron structural iron supports, braces, grip wires, or secondary supports
shall be visible from any public place.
   B.   Roof signs may not rotate.
   C.   The facing of a roof sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square
feet in area and cannot extend more than ten feet (10') above a flat roof or
above the highest point of a gabled roof.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-11: ILLUMINATED SIGNS:
   A.   All signs which use electricity must conform to the standards of the
United States Bureau of Standards and may be approved by Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc.
   B.   All illuminating elements in signs which use electricity shall be kept
in satisfactory working condition or immediately repaired or replaced.
   C.   All signs using electricity shall have a disconnecting switch which is
located in accordance with the requirements of the Village Building and
Electrical Codes.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-12: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   No temporary sign of combustible material shall exceed four feet (4')
in one of its dimensions or one hundred (100) square feet in area, and provided
such signs in excess of sixty (60) square feet shall be made of rigid
materials, that is, of wallboard or other light materials with frames.
   B.   Every temporary sign weighing in excess of fifty (50) pounds must be
approved by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement as conforming to the
safety requirements of the Village Building Code.
   C.   No temporary sign shall extend over or into any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare a distance greater than four inches (4")
from the wall upon which it is erected, and shall not be placed or project over
any wall opening.
   D.   No temporary sign shall be erected so as to prevent free ingress to or
egress from any door, window or fire escape, nor shall such sign be attached to
any standpipe or fire escape.
   E.   Every temporary wall sign shall be attached to the wall with wire or
steel cables, and no strings, ropes or wood slats for anchorage or support
purposes shall be permitted.
   F.   Permits for temporary signs shall authorize the erection of said signs
and their maintenance for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days.
   G.   The advertisement contained on any temporary sign shall pertain only to
the business, industry or pursuit conducted on or within the premises on which
the sign is erected or maintained. This subsection shall not apply to signs of
a civic, political or religious nature.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-13: UNSAFE, OBSOLETE OR NONCOMPLIANT SIGNS:
   A.   Unsafe, Unlawful Signs:
      1.   If the Director of Building and Code Enforcement shall find that any
sign or other advertising structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or
is a menace to the public, or has been constructed or erected or is being
maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter, he shall give
written notice to the permittee thereof.
      2.   If the permittee fails to remove or alter the structure so as to
comply with the standards herein set forth within ten (10) days after such
notice, such sign or other advertising structure may be removed or altered to
comply by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement at the expense of the
permittee or owner of the property upon which it is located.
      3.   The Director of Building and Code Enforcement shall recommend to the
Village Board the revocation of the permit covering said sign or other
structure regulated herein, and thereupon, said permit may be revoked by order
of the Village Board.
      4.   The Director of Building and Code Enforcement may cause any sign or
other advertising structure which is an immediate peril to persons or property
to be removed summarily and without notice.
   B.   Obsolete Signs: Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer
advertises a bona fide business conducted or a product sold shall be taken down
and removed by the owner, agent, or person having the use of the building or
structure upon which the sign may be found within ten (10) days after written
notification from the Director of Building and Code Enforcement, and upon
failure to comply with the notice within the time specified in the order, the
Director is hereby authorized to cause removal of the sign, and any expense
incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the building or structure to
which the sign is attached.
   C.   Nonconforming Signs: Every sign or other advertising structure lawfully
in existence on the effective date hereof shall not be altered or moved unless
it is made to comply with the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of
this subsection shall not exempt the owner of any nonconforming sign from the
requirements of subsection 11-7-2E of this chapter pertaining to bond or
liability insurance.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-14: AWNINGS:
   A.   Awnings may be constructed of fire resistant cloth or metal; provided,
however, that all frames and supports shall be of metal.
   B.   All awnings shall be constructed and erected so that the lowest portion
thereof shall be not less than fourteen feet (14') above the level of the
sidewalk, public thoroughfare, driving lanes, aisles or fire lanes.
   C.   No awning shall be permitted to extend beyond a point twelve inches
(12") inside the curb line.
   D.   An awning shall be no larger than is necessary to protect and cover the
window or the entrance over which it is erected.
   E.   Every awning shall be securely attached to and supported by the
building. Posts or columns beyond the building line shall not be permitted for
awnings. No awning shall be attached to the wood jambs, frames, or other wood
members of a building (frame buildings excepted) when such building is less
than ten feet (10') from public property.
   F.   No advertising shall be placed on any awning; except, that the name of
the owner and the business, industry or pursuit conducted within the premises
may be painted or otherwise permanently placed in a space not exceeding eight
inches (8") in height on the front and side portions thereof.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
11-7-15: PENALTY:
Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that any violation
of this chapter shall exist or occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 80-4-16G, 4-16-1980)
CHAPTER 8: BANNERS, LARGE BALLOONS AND TENTS
Section
11-8-1:   Definitions
11-8-2:   Permit Required; Exemptions
11-8-3:   Information Required
11-8-4:   Permit Fee; Exemptions
11-8-5:   Separate Permit And Fee Required
11-8-6:   Nontransferability Of Permit; Change Of Location
11-8-7:   Restrictions And Requirements
11-8-8:   Rules And Regulations
11-8-9:   Enforcement
11-8-10:   Penalty
11-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BALLOON. Any balloon, inflatable bag or inflatable device made of nonrigid,
nonporous material which has a height or width, measured at its highest or
widest point, that is greater than seven and one-half feet (7.5'), or which has
a circumference, measured at its largest point, that is greater than ten feet
(10').
BANNER. A sign or standard made out of cloth or other nonrigid material which
has a surface area on any one side greater than thirty two (32) square feet.
TENT. A collapsible structure or shelter made of fabric, such as nylon or
canvas, that is stretched and sustained by poles or similar devices which is
used as a shelter or to provide cover and which, when erected, covers an area
greater than fifty (50) square feet.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
11-8-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
No person shall erect or maintain a balloon, banner or tent within the Village
without first obtaining a permit from the Director of Public Works; provided,
that no permit shall be required for: a) a tent or banner erected or maintained
on property that is owned by a unit of Federal, State or local government; b) a
tent which is erected completely within an enclosed structure; and c) a tent
which is erected on a parcel which is zoned A Single-Family District under the
Village zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
11-8-3: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
Prior to the issuance of a permit for a banner, balloon or tent, the applicant
must submit to the Director of Public Works written documentation which details
how the banner, balloon or tent will be anchored or attached to the ground or
to a building or other structure. The written documentation must also describe
any mechanical or electrical devices which will be used in connection with the
banner, balloon or tent. If electrical wires or cords will be used to supply
power to the balloon, banner or tent, the written documentation must describe
the manner in which electricity will be extended to the balloon, banner or tent
including, but not limited to, where the electrical wires or cords will be
located and the precautions that will be taken to prevent the electric wires or
cords from becoming a hazard to persons or property.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
11-8-4: PERMIT FEE; EXEMPTIONS:
Prior to the issuance of a permit for a balloon, banner, or tent the applicant
must pay a permit fee to the Village in the amount as set forth in the Village
Fee Schedule, subsections 3-10-1J and K of this Code. The payment of a fee
shall not be required if a banner, balloon or tent (see subsection 3-10-1F of
this Code for permit fee) is erected by or on behalf of the Village.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995; amd. 2019 Code)
11-8-5: SEPARATE PERMIT AND FEE REQUIRED:
A separate permit shall be required and a separate fee must be paid for each
banner, balloon or tent.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
11-8-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   A.   Permits shall not be transferable.
   B.   A new permit must be obtained if the location of a balloon, banner or
tent is changed, provided payment of any additional permit fee shall not be
required if the written documentation submitted to the Village at the time the
permit was issued will continue to be accurate after the location is changed.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
11-8-7: RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
All balloons, banners or tents, as defined by this chapter, which are erected
or maintained within the Village, shall be subject to the following
restrictions and requirements:
   A.   All banners, balloons or tents must be fixed securely to the ground or
to a building or other structure and must be fixed to the ground or to a
building in accordance with the written documentation submitted to the Director
of Public Works pursuant to section 11-8-3 of this chapter. A banner, balloon
or tent shall be considered to be fixed securely if the banner, balloon or tent
is attached to the ground or to a building or other structure so that it will
not become loose in wind gusts of up to sixty (60) miles per hour.
   B.   No part of any balloon shall be located: 1) within fifty feet (50') of
the right-of-way for a limited access highway which has five (5) or more lanes;
2) within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way of a State highway; or 3)
within five feet (5') of the right-of-way of any other roadway.
   C.   No tent or banner shall be erected or maintained so as to encroach onto
or over a public right-of-way except for banners or tents that are erected and
maintained by a unit of Federal, State or local government.
   D.   No tent, banner or balloon shall be erected or maintained so as to
encroach onto any adjacent parcel without the consent of the owner or occupant
of the adjacent parcel. No banner or balloon shall be erected or maintained at
a height greater than sixty five feet (65') above grade.
   E.   No tent shall be erected or maintained at a height greater than thirty
feet (30') above grade.
   F.   No tent, banner or balloon shall be made out of a flammable material.
   G.   A balloon shall be inflated only with either helium or air.
   H.   Except during the period beginning on Thanksgiving Day and ending on
the following January 15, no balloon shall be erected and maintained for a
period longer than ten (10) consecutive days, and no banner or tent shall be
erected and maintained for a period greater than thirty (30) consecutive days.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
11-8-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Director of Public Works shall be and hereby is authorized to issue and
enforce rules and regulations to implement and administer the provisions of
this chapter; provided, that any such rules and regulations must be consistent
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
11-8-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The Director of Public Works or an officer of the Village Public Safety
Department holding the rank of lieutenant or above shall have the authority to
issue an order requiring a person who has erected or is maintaining a tent,
balloon or banner to deflate the balloon or remove the banner or tent if,
because of weather conditions, he determines that the balloon, banner or tent
constitutes an imminent hazard to persons or property.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
11-8-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for each
offense. Each separate twenty four (24) hour period or part thereof on which a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 95-6-7L, 6-7-1995)
CHAPTER 9: CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS
Section
11-9-1:   Purpose And Declaration Of Policy
11-9-2:   Application Of Provisions; Exemptions
11-9-3:   Definitions
11-9-4:   Notice Of Intent To Tenants And Village To Convert
11-9-5:   Condominium Code Assessment Report For Conversions
11-9-6:   Filing Condominium Instruments
11-9-7:   Condominium Property Report Required; Contents
11-9-8:   Submission Of Property Report To Prospective Purchasers And The
Village
11-9-9:   Certification Of Inspection
11-9-10:   Fee
11-9-11:   Remodeling In Conversion Condominiums
11-9-12:   Enforcement
11-9-13:   Penalty
11-9-1:    PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish regulations relating to: a) the
conversion of existing residential property to condominium ownership; b) the
inspection for Code compliance purposes of newly created residential
condominium developments; and c) the disclosure of property conditions for
those residential condominium developments located within the Village that
contain four (4) or more dwelling units for which the declaration provided in
section 3 and the plat provided in section 5 of the Condominium Property Act
are recorded after the effective date hereof. This chapter is being enacted in
order to protect the purchasers of condominium units and the residents of
rental units designated for conversion and to encourage the maintenance and
improvement of the quality of housing within the Village.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-2:    APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to those residential condominium
developments containing four (4) or more dwelling units for which the
declaration provided in section 3 and the plat provided in section 5 of the
Condominium Property Act are recorded after the effective date hereof.
Residential condominium developments for which the declaration provided in
section 3 of the Condominium Property Act was recorded prior to the effective
date hereof shall not be subject to the provisions of this chapter. The resale
of a condominium unit by an owner of a dwelling unit in a residential
condominium development that is subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
be exempt from the requirements of this chapter unless the owner is also the
“developer” or “declarant”, as defined in section 11-9-3 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-3:    DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ACT: The Illinois Condominium Property Act (Condominium Property Act) as set
forth in 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 605/1 et seq., as amended from time to
time.
AGENT: Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture, corporation
or other entity or combination of entities who represents or acts for or on
behalf of a developer in selling or offering to sell any condominium unit,
excepting an escrow officer acting for a title company.
BOARD OF MANAGERS: The body designated to act on behalf of the unit owners’
association.
CLOSING OF THE SALE: The transferring of ownership of a condominium unit to the
new owner from the developer through a deed of conveyance, articles of
agreement for a warranty deed, transferring of beneficial interest in a land
trust, or any other method of transfer from the developer to the new owner.
COMMON ELEMENTS: All portions of the property except the units, including
limited common elements, unless otherwise specified.
CONDOMINIUM: A form of residential property containing four (4) or more
dwelling units which is subject to the act, portions of which are designed and
designated for separate ownership and the remainder of which is designated for
common ownership solely by the owners of those portions.
CONDOMINIUM INSTRUMENTS: The declaration required to be recorded under section
3 of the act, the plat required to be recorded under section 5 of the act, and
the bylaws required under section 18 of the act.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A plan by a developer to sell condominium units in a
building, whether through conversion to condominium status or construction of
new buildings with condominium ownership.
CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REPORT: The property report required by section 11-9-7 of
this chapter.
CONVERSION: The offering for sale by a developer or developer’s agent of a
conversion condominium unit that was rented by a person before commencement of
a condominium project which includes such unit.
CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM: A property which contains four (4) or more residential
dwelling units, excepting those newly constructed and intended for condominium
ownership at the time of construction, which are or have previously been wholly
or partially occupied before the recording of condominium instruments where
such occupancy was by persons other than those who have contracted for the
purchase of a condominium unit.
DECLARANT: Any person who plans to execute or has executed the declaration
provided in section 3 of the act or on whose behalf the declaration is
executed.
DECLARATION: The instrument required to be recorded under section 3 of the act
and as such declaration may from time to time be amended.
DEVELOPER: Any person who submits property legally or equitably owned by such
person to the provisions of the act, or any person who offers units legally or
equitably owned by such person for sale in the ordinary course of the person’s
business, including any successor or successors to the developer’s entire
interest in the property other than the purchaser of an individual unit. The
term DEVELOPER may include a land trustee or beneficiary of a land trust.
LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS: A portion of the common elements so designated in the
declaration as being reserved for the use of a certain unit or units to the
exclusion of other units including, but not limited to, balconies, terraces,
patios and parking spaces or facilities.
NOTICE OF INTENT: The notice of intent required under section 30 of the act to
be given to all persons who are tenants of the building that is to be converted
to a condominium of the intent to submit the real estate on which the building
is located to the act on the date the notice is given.
OFFERING: Any advertisement, publication, announcement, solicitation, statement
or inducement, either written or oral, by the developer or the developer’s
representative or a declarant, to promote the sale of a condominium unit or
prospective condominium unit.
PERSON: A natural individual, corporation, partnership, trustee or other legal
entity capable of holding title to real property.
PLAT: A plat or plats of survey of the parcel and of all units on the property
which is required to be recorded under section 5 of the act, which may consist
of a 3-dimensional horizontal and vertical delineation of all such units.
PROPERTY: All the land, property and space comprising the parcel, all
improvements and structures erected, constructed or contained in or on such
land, property or space, including the buildings and all easement rights and
appurtenances and all fixtures and equipment intended for the mutual use,
benefit or enjoyment of the unit owners, submitted to the provisions of the act
and this chapter.
PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER: A person who visits the condominium project site for the
purpose of inspection for possible purchase or who requests the property
report.
UNIT: A part of the property including one or more rooms, occupying one or more
floors or a part or parts thereof, designed and intended for any type of
independent use and having lawful access to a public way.
UNIT OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION AND ASSOCIATION: The association of all the unit
owners, acting pursuant to bylaws through its duly elected board of managers.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-4:    NOTICE OF INTENT TO TENANTS AND VILLAGE TO CONVERT:
Prior to the formal filing and concurrently with its delivery to tenants, the
declarant of a conversion condominium shall deliver to both the Village Clerk
and to the Director of Building and Code Enforcement a copy of the notice of
intent to convert and an affidavit providing a list of the tenants to whom such
notice is supplied and the date or dates of delivery or attempted delivery. A
copy of this chapter shall be attached to all such notices. Such notices shall
contain the condominium property report provided in section 11-9-7 of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-5:    CONDOMINIUM CODE ASSESSMENT REPORT FOR CONVERSION:
In the case of conversion condominiums, a condominium code assessment report
shall be prepared by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement or his
designee listing violations of all applicable Code violations existing as of
the date of the report. The condominium code assessment report shall be issued
after the notice of intent to convert has been sent to tenants and filed with
the Village pursuant to section
11-9-4 of this chapter, and following payment of the application fee as set
forth in section
11-9-10 of this chapter. The declaration provided in section 3 of the act and
the plat provided in section 5 of the act shall not be recorded until the
condominium code assessment report has been issued.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-6:    FILING CONDOMINIUM INSTRUMENTS:
   A.   Prior to recording a declaration with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds
pursuant to the act, the declarant shall file the following documents with the
Village:
      1.   The proposed condominium instruments, including the declaration,
bylaws and plat.
      2.   A report prepared by an independent, licensed architect or engineer
describing the items specified in subsection
11-9-7C4 of this chapter.
   B.   Where a declarant has filed with the Village a notice of intent or
other condominium instruments for a building that the Village has determined or
subsequently determines in its condominium code assessment report not to be in
compliance with all applicable Building, Zoning and Housing Codes, the
declarant or developer shall also file the following information within thirty
(30) days after the receipt of the condominium code assessment report by the
declarant or developer:
      1.   A verified statement showing the estimated cost and time of
completion of the work necessary to correct each Code violation on such report
and the source of such estimate.
      2.   Satisfactory evidence of sufficient funds to cover all the costs in
subsection B1 of this section without the use of any purchaser funds.
   C.   In addition to the requirements of this section, the declarant must
file with the Village Clerk an exact copy of all condominium instruments
recorded with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds within ten (10) days after
recording said instruments.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-7:    CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REPORT REQUIRED; CONTENTS:
   A.   At least four (4) weeks before offering for sale any condominium unit
in a condominium project, the developer shall file with the Village a
condominium property report and shall certify that all disclosures are true.
The developer must provide a copy of the condominium property report filed with
the Village pursuant to this section to all existing tenants in a conversion
condominium at the same time the developer provides the notice of intent
required under section 11-9-4 of this chapter.
   B.   The condominium property report shall disclose fully and accurately the
characteristics of the condominium and the units in the condominium and all
unusual and material circumstances and features affecting the condominium.
   C.   The condominium property report shall contain, but not be limited to,
the following information about the condominium and condominium project:
      1.   Ownership And Responsibility: Each property report shall include a
statement of ownership and responsibility, which shall include the following:
         a.   The name and address of the condominium.
         b.   The names and addresses of the developer and owner. If the
developer and owner are artificial entities such as a corporation, trust or
partnership, then the statement shall include all officers and directors of the
corporation and all partners of a general partnership. The names and addresses
of all persons with an ownership interest in the offering equal to ten percent
(10%) or more of the total ownership interest therein shall be included.
         c.   The names and addresses of all architects, contractors,
attorneys, engineers, accountants and principal sales and management agents.
      2.   Description Of Project: A general description of the condominium,
including the number and types of units, any restrictions on use and occupancy
of the units, floor plans and arrangements for off street parking and the
proportion of units that the developer intends to rent or to market to
investors. Each condominium property report shall specifically include the
following:
         a.   A map or plat showing the size and dimensions of the condominium
project, together with all improvements, including:
            (1)   A description of the condominium units offered and the nature
and extent of individual ownership in the condominium units.
            (2)   A description and the nature and extent of ownership of all
common elements, general and limited.
            (3)   A description and nature and ownership of all property and
facilities on the site which are not part of the condominium.
            (4)   A description of all existing and proposed facilities
including, but not limited to, recreational facilities within the condominium.
            (5)   The location, nature and ownership of all existing and
proposed streets, parking facilities and roads on and contiguous to the site,
as well as all existing and proposed easements on or contiguous to the site.
            (6)   Drawings, architectural plans and other suitable documents
setting forth the necessary information for location, maintenance and repair of
all condominium facilities. Such items shall be incorporated in the property
report by reference, and shall be located at the sales office site, and shall
be turned over to the board of managers upon transfer of control by the
developer.
         b.   Projected initiation and completion dates for any proposed
construction, renovation or conversion, including proposed improvements which
have not been completed by the date on which the condominium instruments are
filed with the Village. The description of each improvement shall specify the
type and quality of materials to be used and the estimated cost.
         c.   The bylaws of the unit owners’ association and applicable zoning
provisions, including whether or under what conditions a condominium unit may
be rented.
         d.   A statement as to whether a purchaser may purchase more than one
unit and under what circumstances or conditions.
         e.   A statement of legal ownership, listing all restrictions of
record and the condition of title.
      3.   Management And Operation Information: Each condominium property
report shall include a statement of management and expected operation of the
condominium and condominium project including, but not limited to:
         a.   The name of the management agent, if any, and the services the
agent will perform.
         b.   A statement disclosing that under the provisions of this chapter
the developer may not enter into any exclusive contract for management or
services of a condominium project or permit a clause in the sales contract
between a developer and prospective purchaser of a condominium unit that would
stipulate an exclusive management contract to exceed a period of one year after
the condominium project is given over to the individual unit owners in
accordance with section 18.2 of the act.
         c.   The length of term of any management contract and charges and
circumstances, if any, under which the charges may be increased.
         d.   The conditions, if any, under which the contract may be canceled
or terminated.
         e.   A statement disclosing any relationship between the developer and
the management firm and their respective corporate officers and controlling
interests.
      4.   Report On Condition Of Building:
         a.   A statement of the developer, based on a report prepared by an
independent, licensed architect or engineer, providing notification that the
report is on file with the Village and describing the present condition of all
structural components and major mechanical systems and also including the
approximate dates of construction, installation and major repairs, the expected
useful life of each item and, for major mechanical systems, the current
estimated cost of replacing the same.
         b.   In the case of a conversion condominium, the property report
shall include a report from a qualified licensed engineer or registered
architect stating the condition and the rated life and expected useful life of
the roof, foundation, external and supporting walls, mechanical, electrical,
plumbing and structural elements and all other common facilities, together with
an estimate of repair and replacement costs, at current market prices, which
shall indicate what the cost per category of the co-owner would be if the co-
owners were assessed for the estimated replacement cost. This report shall
include the approximate dates of installation of the facilities listed in this
subsection and the dates of major repairs to such facilities.
         c.   A list of any violations of applicable Building, Fire and similar
Codes or any other applicable Codes.
      5.   Warning Statement: Each condominium property report shall contain on
the first page the following warning:
The Village of Rosemont has received the condominium instruments, including
this property report, for filing on                   . The Village has
reviewed the property report only for compliance with the Village ordinance
regulating residential condominium developments containing four (4) or more
dwelling units and assumes no liability for the project or the developer's
actions or failure to act. The Village has not passed on the merits of this
project or given approval of the statements in this property report. Oral
representations cannot be relied upon as correctly stating the representations
of the developer and are not binding on the developer. Refer to your purchase
contract for binding representations.
      6.   Parking Facilities: Each property report shall include a description
of the location, ownership, and availability to unit owners and the general
public of accessory off street parking associated with the condominium. If all
of such parking facilities are not: a) part of the common elements; or b)
divided as individual parking spaces among and designated as being part of the
units, the following statement shall be included in a conspicuous caption:
Parking facilities associated with this building are not owned by the unit
owners and may be subject to being denied to or taken from unit owners.
      7.   Distribution Of Property Report: The property report shall not be
distributed or used for any promotional purposes before filing the condominium
instruments with the Village and afterwards, shall be used only in its
entirety.
      8.   Amendment To Property Report: The Village may require the developer
to amend the proposed property report in order to assure full compliance with
this section. No material change may be made to the condominium instruments
after filing without notifying the Village and making appropriate amendments to
the property report.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-8: SUBMISSION OF PROPERTY REPORT TO PROSPECTIVE PURCHASERS AND THE
VILLAGE:
   A.   A copy of the condominium property report and any amendments and
supplements thereto shall be filed with both the Village Clerk and the Director
of Building and Code Enforcement by the developer promptly following
completion. Said copy shall be used for informational purposes only and may be
included in the building permit files.
   B.   Subject to the provisions contained in this chapter, a developer or
agent shall not enter into a binding contract or agreement for the sale of a
condominium unit until:
      1.   A copy of the condominium property report and any amendments and
supplements thereto, if any, have been given to the prospective purchaser and
to all existing tenants in condominium conversions and filed with the Village
as provided in subsection A of this section.
      2.   The prospective purchaser has been given an opportunity to read the
condominium property report.
      3.   A receipt signed by the prospective purchaser has been received by
the developer or agent acknowledging that the prospective purchaser has
received and has had an opportunity to review the condominium property report.
   C.   Such receipts shall be kept on file in the possession of the developer
for a period of three (3) years from the date of signature by the prospective
purchaser. Receipts shall be subject to inspection by the Village at any
reasonable time.
   D.   The condominium property report and any amendments and supplements
thereto shall be made available by the developer for inspection by the public
in a reasonably accessible place and at reasonable hours.
   E.   If any information required to be contained in the condominium property
report is unavailable prior to the time a prospective purchaser desires to
enter into a contract of sale, the contract may, at the purchaser’s option, be
executed without the availability of such information; provided, that such
information shall be furnished to the purchaser and its receipt acknowledged in
writing by the purchaser prior to the closing of the sale.
   F.   Before making any material changes in the terms of a condominium
property report which has been submitted to the Village Clerk and the Director
of Building and Code Enforcement, the developer shall first notify the Director
or designee in writing of such intended change, and shall also notify all
purchasers and prospective purchasers and all existing tenants in condominium
conversions of such change.
   G.   After the signing of the contract of sale for a condominium unit and
prior to the closing of the sale, the developer must deliver to the buyer a
copy of any amendments, supplements or modifications to the property report.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-9: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION:
   A.   Certificate Required; Application; Inspection: Any developer desiring
to sell or rent a condominium unit regulated by this chapter shall first apply
to the Village Clerk or designee for a certificate of inspection with respect
to such unit and with respect to the common elements of the property containing
the unit. The applicant shall submit with the application as-built
architectural drawings of the building and site development certified by a
registered architect. The Director of Building and Code Enforcement or designee
shall thereupon cause an inspection to be made of the unit and of the common
elements to ascertain compliance with current Codes and with those Codes in
force when the unit was built and shall make a determination thereon.
   B.   Compliance Required: Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, no
certificate of inspection shall be issued and no sale shall be made of any unit
if such unit or the common elements pertaining thereto are not in compliance
with current Codes.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificate: After the inspection, as provided in this
section, has been completed and compliance with current Codes has been
ascertained or waived, the Director of Building and Code Enforcement or
designee shall issue a certificate of inspection with respect to each unit
inspected. All of the certificates issued shall include therein a specification
of each separate condition of noncompliance which has been waived. The Director
or designee shall also issue to the applicant clear and legible copies of the
certificates suitable for posting.
   D.   Posting Certificate; Recordkeeping: It shall become the obligation of
the developer to post and keep posted one copy of the certificate of inspection
on the front doorway of each unit to which it pertains until the sale of that
unit is consummated and to post and keep posted a copy of the certificate
pertaining to the common elements on the doorway of the main entrance and any
other places as may be directed by the Village until the sale of the last unit
has been consummated. The developer shall maintain documentation pertaining to
each unit to establish that the purchaser of such unit has received from the
developer or the developer’s agent a copy of the certificate of inspection
pertaining thereto. These records shall be maintained and available for
examination by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement or designee.
   E.   Failure To Obtain Certificate: A violation of this chapter shall be
considered to have been committed by the developer if a closing of a sale of
any unit is completed without the issuance of a certificate of inspection for
the unit and the common elements or a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-10: FEE:
The applicant for a certificate of inspection or a condominium code assessment
report under this chapter shall pay a fee of one hundred seventy five dollars
($175.00).
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-11: REMODELING IN CONVERSION CONDOMINIUMS:
The developer shall not undertake the remodeling for conversion of a unit in a
conversion condominium while the unit is occupied by a tenant nor shall the
developer create, or cause to be created, any unreasonable disruption of the
common areas including, but not limited to, prohibiting or unreasonably
restricting the access of tenants to such common areas. The developer, in
undertaking remodeling in a conversion condominium, shall not interfere with
the quiet use and enjoyment of the premises by tenants or use the remodeling as
a means to harass tenants.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Director of Building and Code Enforcement or designee is hereby
authorized and directed to receive complaints and conduct such investigations
as he deems necessary pursuant to the authority vested in that office.
   B.   Whenever it is determined by the Director of Building and Code
Enforcement or designee that there has been a violation of this chapter or any
duly adopted rule or regulation of the Village, the Director or designee is
authorized to seek all or a portion of the following relief, or any other
relief that may be granted by law:
      1.   Attempt to conciliate the matter by conference or otherwise and
secure a written conciliation agreement;
      2.   Seek a written assurance of discontinuance, which shall be signed by
the developer and the Director of Building and Code Enforcement or designee;
      3.   Have an attorney for the Village institute injunctive or other
appropriate action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to
obtain a restraining order, permanent or temporary injunction or any other
appropriate form of relief; or
      4.   Have an attorney for the Village institute legal proceedings for the
purpose of having a fine imposed on the persons who have violated a provision
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
11-9-13: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2004-7-7E, 7-7-2004)
CHAPTER 10: SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
Section
11-10-1:   Purpose
11-10-2:   Definitions
11-10-3:   Conditions Of Building Permit Issuance
11-10-4:   Principles And Standards
11-10-5:   Regional Information
11-10-6:   Emergency Measures
11-10-7:   Exemptions
11-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent
damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by guiding,
regulating and controlling construction activities which disturb or break the
topsoil or otherwise result in the movement of earth on land situated in the
Village.
(Ord. 87-4-1F, 4-1-1987)
11-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CONSTRUCTION: The erection, alteration, repair, renovation, demolition, or
removal of any building or structure, and the excavation, filling, grading, and
regulation of lots in connection therewith.
EROSION: The wearing away of the land surface by the action of wind, water or
gravity.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after the
grading work is completed in accordance with the site development plan.
GRADING: Excavation or fill, or any combination thereof, and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation of fill.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PERMITTEE: An individual who has obtained a permit to cut vegetation to the
ground or stumps, complete extraction, or kill by spraying.
SITE: A lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where
grading work is performed as a single unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing
improvements.
STRIPPING: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, clearing, and storage or removal of top soil.
VACANT: Land on which there are not structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
VILLAGE: The Village of Rosemont, Cook County, Illinois.
(Ord. 87-4-1F, 4-1-1987)
11-10-3: CONDITIONS OF BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Except as provided in section
11-10-7 of this chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless the
application therefor, particularly the items of information specified in
section
11-10-5 of this chapter, demonstrates compliance with the principles and
standards set forth in section
11-10-4 of this chapter.
(Ord. 87-4-1F, 4-1-1987)
11-10-4: PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS:
   A.   No proposed construction shall be authorized unless the building permit
application indicates that measures to be taken to control erosion and
sedimentation will be adequate to assure that sediment is not transported from
the site by a storm event of 10-year frequency or less, and that the following
principles will be applicable to all phases of any clearing, stripping,
excavating, filling, grading, construction, or other activities involving the
disturbance of the natural terrain or vegetative ground cover:
      1.   Development should be related to the topography and soils of the
site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of steep slopes
where high cuts and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible,
and natural contours should be followed as closely as possible.
      2.   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses should be left
undisturbed wherever possible.
      3.   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the
shortest time during development.
      4.   Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps or
filters should be installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff
waters from land undergoing development.
      5.   The selection of erosion and sedimentation control measures should
be based on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events
likely to contribute to erosion, and on evaluation of the risks, costs and
benefits involved.
      6.   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices,
aesthetics and the requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
      7.   Provisions should be made to accommodate the increased stormwater
runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development. Drainageways should be designed so that their final gradients and
the resultant velocities of discharges will not create additional erosion.
      8.   Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed as soon as
practical during development.
   B.   Erosion control measures shall be designed in accordance with the
standards and requirements contained in “Procedures and Standards for Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois” adopted by the Cook County Soil
and Water Conservation District, which standards and requirements are hereby
incorporated into this chapter by reference.
   C.   The Village Board of Trustees may waive specific requirements for the
content of submissions upon finding that the information submitted is
sufficient to show that the work will comply with the objectives and principles
of this chapter.
(Ord. 87-4-1F, 4-1-1987)
11-10-5: REGIONAL INFORMATION:
Each building permit application shall be accompanied by a site plan which
includes a description of all soil and erosion and sedimentation control
measures to be taken to meet the objectives of this chapter throughout all
phases of construction and permanently after completion of development of the
site.
(Ord. 87-4-1F, 4-1-1987; amd. 2019 Code)
11-10-6: EMERGENCY MEASURES:
   A.   Special Precautions: If at any stage of the grading of any development
site the Village determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such
that further work authorized by an existing permittee is likely to imperil any
property, public way, watercourse or drainage structure, the Village may
require, as a condition of allowing the work to be done, that such reasonable
special precautions be taken as is considered advisable to avoid the likelihood
of such peril. “Special precautions” may include, but shall not be limited to,
a more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities,
berms, terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant material for
erosion control, and recommendations of a registered soil engineer and/or
engineering geologist which may be made requirements for further work.
   B.   Probable Storm Damage: Where it appears that storm damage may result
because the grading on any development site is not complete, work may be
stopped and the permittee required to install temporary structures or take such
other measures as may be required to protect adjoining property for the public
safety. On large developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the
Village may specify the time of starting grading and time of completion or may
require that the operations be conducted in specific stages so as to ensure
completion of protective measures or devices prior to the advent of seasonal
rains.
(Ord. 87-4-1F, 4-1-1987)
11-10-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following construction
activities:
   A.   Development of a site for which a soil erosion and sedimentation
control plan has been prepared and approved as a condition of issuance of a
site development permit or the approval of a plat of subdivision, and on which
the plan is being implemented.
   B.   Excavation below final grade for the basement and footings of a single-
family residence and appurtenant structures on a site in excess of five (5)
acres.
   C.   Agricultural use of land, including the implementation of conservation
measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the Soil and Water
Conservation District, and including the construction of agricultural
structures.
   D.   Installation, renovation, or replacement of a septic system to serve an
existing dwelling or structure.
(Ord. 87-4-1F, 4-1-1987)
CHAPTER 11: PAYMENT OF PREVAILING WAGES ON WORK INCENTIVIZED BY THE VILLAGE OF
ROSEMONT
Section
11-11-1:   Definitions
11-11-2:   Payment Of Prevailing Wages Required
11-11-3:   Penalty
11-11-4:   Prosecution Of Violations; Injunctions
11-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
The Term "prevailing wages" shall mean the "general prevailing rate of hourly
wages" as determined and defined pursuant to the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act,
820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq., then in effect.
(Ord. 2022-8-8B, 8-8-2022)
11-11-2: PAYMENT OF PREVAILING WAGES REQUIRED:
Laborers, workers and mechanics performing any type of construction or
demolition work on any property in the Village which benefits from of any type
or form of Village development incentive shall be paid not less than the
prevailing wages for the type of work performed that are in effect as
determined by the Illinois Department of Labor for Cook County under the
Prevailing Wage Act, 820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq. Property in the Village of
Rosemont which benefits from of any type or form of Village development
incentive shall include, but not be limited to, any property or property
interest located in the Village of Rosemont which is being developed or
improved with: (1) the use of Tax Increment Financing to reimburse eligible
redevelopment project costs pursuant to the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act, 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.; (2) funding through sales tax
sharing agreements; (3) an agreement under the Property Assessed Clean Energy
Act, 50 ILCS 50/1 et seq., which allows for the financing and/or refinancing of
various types of energy efficiency improvements; (4) any agreement where the
amount owed to the Village by the owner of the property interest is reduced to
assist in the funding of property improvements; and (5) other types of
agreements which provide for Village incentives for the improvement of property
in the Village.
(Ord. 2022-8-8B, 8-8-2022)
11-11-3: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
by a fine of not less than seventy-five dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) with each day a violation occurs being
considered as a separate and distinct violation. In addition to any penalty
found to be due, they Village may, upon a conviction reduce any incentive
payment the Village owes for the property by the amount which the wages
actually paid is less than the wages that are required to be paid under this
section.
(Ord. 2022-8-8B, 8-8-2022)
11-11-4: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIONS:
Violations of the provisions of this chapter are subject to prosecution under
the Village's administrative adjudication proceedings established pursuant
title 1, chapter 4, article A of this Code as now or hereafter amended. The
provisions of this chapter shall not preclude the Village from using other
methods or proceedings to adjudicate alleged violations of this Chapter,
including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, or before another administrative tribunal which has
jurisdiction to consider the violation. In the event that a person commits
repeated violations of this chapter, the Village may institute an action to
enjoin further violations of this chapter. In the event such an action is
instituted and an injunction is issued, the entity/person whose conduct is
enjoined shall be required to compensate the Village for the attorneys' fees
and other costs incurred in obtaining the injunction.
(Ord. 2022-8-8B, 8-8-2022)
TITLE 12: ZONING
CHAPTER 1: TITLE; INTERPRETATION; APPLICATION; CONFLICTS
Section
12-1-1:   Short Title
12-1-2:   Interpretation; Application; Conflicts
12-1-3:   Compliance With Provisions
12-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, referred to and recited as THE ZONING REGULATIONS OF
THE VILLAGE OF ROSEMONT.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-1-2: INTERPRETATION; APPLICATION; CONFLICTS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In interpreting and applying the provisions or
this title, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion
of the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and
general welfare.
   B.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this title
to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance, rules, regulations or
permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict with any of the
provisions of this title, or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law
relating to the use of buildings or premises and likewise not in conflict with
this title nor is it intended by this title to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties; provided,
however, that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises or upon height of buildings, or required larger open
spaces or larger lot areas than are imposed or required by such ordinances or
agreements, the provisions of this title shall control.
   C.   Validity: If any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence or
provision of this title shall be adjudged by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, invalidate
or nullify the remainder of this title, but the effect thereof shall be
confined to the section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence or provision
immediately involved in the controversy in which a judgment or decree shall be
rendered.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-1-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used, except for a
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
   B.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located.
   C.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located.
   D.   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per family,
required by this title for each and every building existing at the effective
date hereof or for any building hereafter erected shall not be encroached upon
or considered as yard or open space requirements for any other building, nor
shall any lot area be reduced beyond the district requirements of this title.
   E.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a “lot”, as defined in section
12-2-2 of this title, and in no case shall there be more than one main building
on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 2: RULES AND DEFINITIONS
Section
12-2-1:   Rules Of Word Construction
12-2-2:   Definitions
12-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number
shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the word “building” shall
include the word “structure” and the word “shall” is mandatory and not
directory.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS: A subordinate building or a portion of the main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or to the main use
of the premises. An ACCESSORY USE is one which is incidental to the main use of
the premises.
ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, and adult
entertainment cabarets, as defined below:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin-operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such materials which segment or section
consists of more than ten percent (10%) of the floor space occupied by the
establishment which is accessible to patrons of the establishment; or an
establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such
materials based upon factors showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to
sell such material including, but not limited to, its signage, advertising,
displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin-operated booths, the
exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises and the offering for sale
of instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed to be used or
marketed primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A privately owned establishment which regularly:
a) features entertainers or performers who display specified anatomical areas;
or b) features entertainers or performers who, by reason of their appearance or
conduct, perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the
prurient interest of the patron or entertainers or performers who engage in or
are engaged in explicit simulation of specified sexual activities.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area that is regularly used for the
presentation to paying adult customers of motion pictures, films or videotapes
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: When used in relation to an adult use means: a)
less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areolae; or b) human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: When used in relation to an adult use means: a)
human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or sexual arousal; b) actual
or simulated acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy involving one
or more persons; c) fondling or other sexual touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or female breasts; and d) excretory functions as part of or
in connection with any of the activities listed in the definitions of ADULT
BOOKSTORE, ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET, and ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER above.
ADULT USE DISPENSING ORGANIZATION LICENSEE: A holder of a license issued by the
Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation that permits a
person/entity to act as a dispensing organization under this Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1 et seq,. as amended from time to time,
and the administrative rules and regulations promulgated in furtherance of the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
ADVERTISING DEVICE: Any advertising sign, billboard, or poster panel which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment not
exclusively related to the premises where such sign is located or to which it
is affixed; but does not include those advertising signs, billboards, or poster
panels which direct attention to the business on the premises or to a brand
name of a product or commodity with which the business is specifically
identified or which is sold on the premises.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure existing or
erected on land used principally for agricultural purposes, with the exception
of dwelling units.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and
animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for packing,
treating, or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any
such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural
activities.
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use for the
landing and taking off of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used or
intended for use for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-
of-way including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down area,
hangars, and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of
access to property abutting thereon.
ALTERATION: Any change in size, shape, character, occupancy, or use of a
building or structure.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a two-family or multiple dwelling, or
where more than one living unit is established above nonresidential uses,
intended or designed for use as a residence by a single family including bath
and culinary accommodations.
APARTMENT HOTEL: A hotel in which at least ninety percent (90%) of the hotel
accommodations are occupied by permanent guests.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
AUTO LAUNDRY: A building or portion thereof containing facilities for washing
more than two (2) automobiles using production line methods with a chain
conveyor, blower, steam cleaning device, or other mechanical devices.
BASEMENT: A story having part but not more than one-half (1/2) of its height
below grade. A BASEMENT is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulation if subdivided and used for dwelling purposes other than by a janitor
employed on the premises. Not more than five hundred (500) square feet of the
floor area of any basement shall be used for habitable rooms by any janitor and
his family.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where, for compensation pursuant
to previous arrangement, meals, or lodging and meals, are provided for three
(3) or more persons.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the
mean height level between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUSINESS: The engaging in the repair, service, purchase, sale, barter, or
exchange of goods, wares, or merchandise, materials, products, items or
chattels in general or the selling or rendering of services in general.
CANNABIS: The definition set forth in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410
ILCS 705/1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below grade. A
CELLAR is not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of
height measurement.
CLUB, PRIVATE (PROFIT OR NONPROFIT): An association of persons who are bona
fide members paying annual dues which owns, hires or leases a building, or
portion thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their
guests. The affairs and management of such “private club” are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on
such premises, providing adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are
available. The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be
allowed; provided, that such sale of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with
the applicable Federal, State, County and local laws.
COLUMBARIUM: A vault with niches for cinerary urns.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A single dwelling unit occupied on a relatively permanent
basis in a family-like environment by a group of unrelated persons with
disabilities, plus support staff provided by a sponsoring agency, either living
with the residents on a twenty four (24) hour basis, or present whenever
residents with disabilities are present at the dwelling unit. To be a COMMUNITY
RESIDENCE, a dwelling unit must comply with the regulations for the zoning
district in which the site is located. COMMUNITY RESIDENCE does not include a
dwelling unit which serves persons as an alternative to incarceration for a
criminal offense, or persons whose primary reason for residing in the dwelling
unit is for treatment of substance or alcohol abuse or the treatment of a
communicable disease. COMMUNITY RESIDENCE does not include a rooming house,
hotel, nursing home, hospice, or halfway house.
BEDROOM: A room located within a dwelling unit which has a ceiling over at
least fifty percent (50)% of its floor area that is not less than eight feet
(8') in height, has at least one window and a doorway, and is used for sleeping
by one or more persons who reside in the dwelling unit and is not used or
intended for use on a regular basis by persons who do not regularly use the
room as a place for sleeping.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms which are arranged, designed, or used as
living quarters for a family, or a community residence of a single housekeeping
unit. A DWELLING UNIT includes bathroom and kitchen facilities in addition to
sleeping and living areas.
HALFWAY HOUSE: A temporary residential living arrangement for persons who are
receiving therapy and counseling from support staff who are present at all
times the residents are present for the following purposes:
   A.   To help persons recuperate from the effects of drugs or alcohol
addition;
   B.   To help persons with family or school adjustment problems that require
specialized attention and care in order to achieve personal independence; or
   C.   To provide temporary shelter for persons who are victims of domestic
abuse.
HOSPICE: A temporary residential living arrangement for persons with a disease
that requires full- time support, therapy, and/or treatment.
LARGE COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A community residence serving from ten (10) to
fifteen (15) persons with disabilities.
PERSON WITH A DISABILITY: Any individual whose disability:
   A.   Is attributable to mental, intellectual or physical impairments or a
combination of mental, intellectual or physical impairments; and
   B.   Is likely to continue for a significant amount of time or indefinitely;
and
   C.   Results in functional limitations in three (3) or more of the following
areas of major life activities:
      1.   Self-care.
      2.   Receptive or expressive language.
      3.   Learning.
      4.   Mobility.
      5.   Self-direction.
      6.   Capacity for independent living.
      7.   Economic self-sufficiency.
   D.   Reflects a person’s need for a combination and sequence of special
interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment or other services which are of a
lifelong or extended duration.
      A person whose mental, intellectual or physical impairment is due to the
use of, or addiction to, alcohol, a communicable disease, or a controlled
substance is not a PERSON WITH A DISABILITY.
SMALL COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A community residence serving nine (9) or fewer
persons with disabilities.
CURB LEVEL: The level established curb in front of a building measured at the
center of the front. Where no curb elevation has been established, the mean
elevation of the finished lot grade immediately adjacent to a building shall be
considered the CURB LEVEL.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the Village of Rosemont for which
regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of
buildings, the size of yards, and the intensity of use are uniform.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment which accommodates the patrons’ motor
vehicles from which the occupants may watch, purchase, etc.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is designed and used
exclusively for residential purposes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by more than two (2) families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by two (2) families.
ELEEMOSYNARY INSTITUTION: A building or group of buildings devoted to and
supported by charity.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth, adoption or
marriage, but no unrelated groups shall consist of more than four (4) persons.
Persons living in a hotel, rooming house, halfway house or hospice shall not be
considered a family unless all persons living therein are related by birth,
adoption or marriage. Persons living in a community residence shall be
considered a family if not more than four (4) unrelated persons live in the
community residence and if there is no support staff provided by a sponsor
agency either living with the residents on a twenty four (24) hour basis or
present whenever residents with disabilities are present.
FILLING/GAS STATIONS: Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale,
or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels or oils. When the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the premises is classified as a public garage.
FRONTAGE: All the property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE: Any building used for equipping, servicing, repairing, rebuilding,
painting, hiring, selling or storing motor vehicles, including facilities for
selling fuel, lubricants and accessories, and facilities for washing, chassis
and gear lubrication and undercoating of motor vehicles.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building housing not more than four (4) motor-
driven vehicles. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a commercial vehicle
of not more than one and one-half (1-1/2) tons’ load capacity.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building or premises, except those used as a private or
storage garage, used for equipping, repairing, hiring, selling or storing
motor-driven vehicles.
GARAGE, STORAGE: Any building, or premises, used for housing only of motor-
driven vehicles, other than trucks and commercial vehicles, pursuant to
previous arrangements and not to transients, and at which automobile fuels and
oils are not sold and motor-driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired
or sold.
GRADE: 
   A.   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation of
the curb at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
   B.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average
of the elevation of the curb at the centers of all walls adjoining the streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
buildings.
   D.   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet (5')
from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street. Where no curb
exists, the grade shall be established by the Village Engineer.
GROUP OR ROW HOUSE. A group of two (2) or more but not exceeding six (6)
single-family dwellings, separated by walls without openings, not more than two
(2) rooms deep.
GUESTS, PERMANENT. A person who occupies or has the right to occupy a hotel or
an apartment hotel accommodation as his domicile and place of permanent
residence.
HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any occupation or profession located in a dwelling and/or
accessory building which is clearly incidental and secondary to the residential
use of premises.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public in contradistinction
to an APARTMENT HOUSE which is herein separately defined.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
KENNEL: Any premises on which dogs or cats are maintained, boarded, bred, or
cared for, in return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
LODGE: A hall or meeting place of a local branch or the members composing such
a branch of a fraternal order or society, such as the Masons, Knights of
Columbus, Moose, American Legion and other similar organizations. It shall be
permissible to serve food and meals on such premises, providing adequate dining
room space and kitchen facilities are available. The sale of alcoholic
beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed, provided it is
secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other common objective by the
organization, and further provided, that such sale of alcoholic beverages is in
compliance with the applicable Federal, State, County, and local laws.
LODGING HOUSE: A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped regularly to provide lodging) by prearrangement for a definite period,
for compensation, for three (3) or more persons in contradistinction to hotels
open to transients.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms without cooking facilities, each room which provides sleeping
accommodations shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM for the purpose of this
title.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted in
this title, including one main building, together with its necessary buildings,
the open spaces and parking spaces required by this title, and having its
principal frontage upon a street or upon an official approved place.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County, Illinois;
or a parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded in the Office of the
Recorder of Deeds prior to the effective date hereof.
MOTEL: An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached living or
sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, and designed for use by
transient automobile tourists. A MOTEL furnishes customary hotel services, such
as maid service and laundering of linen, telephone and secretarial or desk
service, and the use and upkeep of furniture. In a MOTEL, less than fifty
percent (50%) of the living and sleeping accommodations are occupied or
designed for occupancy by persons other than transient automobile tourists.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate and interstate
shipment by motor truck.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any passenger vehicle, truck, or truck-trailer, trailer, or
semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical or other power.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
effective date hereof or amendment hereto, which does not conform after the
effective date hereof or amendment hereto with the use regulations of the
district in which it is situated.
PARKING SPACE: An area surfaced with concrete, bituminous or similar materials,
enclosed in the main building, in an accessory building or unenclosed,
sufficient in size to store one standard automobile, and if the space is
unenclosed, comprising an area of not less than one hundred forty (140) square
feet, exclusive of a durably surfaced driveway connecting the parking space
with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of an
automobile.
PLACE: An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land fifteen (15) acres or more in area,
developed under single ownership or control, the development of which is unique
and of a substantially different character than that of surrounding areas.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: Taxicabs, limousines and livery vehicles used for
transportation of passengers for hire.
RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operations, including freight depots or stations, loading platforms,
train sheds, warehouses, car or locomotive shops, or car yards.
REAR LOT LINE: The lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel to and most
remote from the front lot line. All areas given for public easements shall be
excluded from any parcel of land in determining location of rear lot line.
RECREATIONAL CLUB: A profit or nonprofit association of persons, who are bona
fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or leases land or buildings
or portion thereof, the use of such premises being restricted primarily to the
principal use, which is a generally recognized sport or recreational activity.
The premises shall be restricted to the members and their guests. The affairs
and management of a RECREATIONAL CLUB are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises,
providing adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. The
sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed;
provided, that such sale of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the
applicable Federal, State, County and local laws.
REST HOME OR NURSING HOME: A private home for the care of children or the aged
or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders. Such home
does not contain equipment for surgical care or for the treatment of disease or
injury.
ROADSIDE STAND: A structure for the display and sale of agricultural products,
with no space for customers within the structure itself.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of LODGING HOUSE.
SALES LOT: An open outdoor area upon which new or used chattels or merchandise
are displayed for sale.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the front line of the building
or structure and the front property line.
SHORT TERM RENTAL: A rental or licensing for any period less than twenty eight
(28) days of any single-family dwelling, multiple dwelling, group or row house
and any portion of a single-family dwelling, multiple dwelling or group or row
house.
SIDE LOT LINE: Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines. All areas given
for public easements shall be excluded from any parcel of land in determining
location of side lot line.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which is
affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon, a building, structure,
or piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization, or business. However, a SIGN shall
not include any display of official court or public office notices nor shall it
include the flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation, political unit, school, or
religious group. A SIGN shall not include a sign located completed within an
enclosed building unless the context shall so indicate.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment not exclusively related to the premises where such
sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SOLAR ENERGY PANEL, FREESTANDING: One or more solar panels that are not
attached to another structure other than a rack or pole that is attached to the
ground.
SOLAR ENERGY PANEL, ROOF-MOUNTED: A solar energy panel mounted on a rack that
is fastened to a building roof.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A system utilizing solar panels, mechanical supporting
elements, meters, conduit and electrical lines, batteries, switches and other
electrical related equipment for the purpose of converting solar radiant energy
into other forms of energy and transmitting same to the electric grid or other
form of storage device or facility.
SOLAR PANEL: A device, structure or part of a device or structure for which the
primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into other forms of
energy.
STORAGE LOT: An open outdoor area upon which new or used chattels or
merchandise are stored.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be
no floor above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall face not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area
is finished off for use. A half story may be used for occupancy only in
conjunction with and by the occupants of the floor immediately below.
STREET: All property dedicated or intended for public or private street,
highway, freeway, or roadway purposes or subject to public easement therefor.
STREET LINE: A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls, excepting such
alterations as may be required for the safety of the building.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground including, but without limiting, the generality of the foregoing,
advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts, and pergolas.
TRAILER: Any structure used for living, sleeping, business, or storage
purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses,
or skirtings and which is, has been, or reasonably may be, equipped with wheels
or other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. The term TRAILER shall include camp car and house
car.
USE: The USE of property is the purpose or activity for which the land, or
building thereon, is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is
occupied or maintained.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either PERMITTED or
SPECIAL.
USE, SPECIAL: A use, either public or private, which, because of its unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in a
particular district. After due consideration, in each case, of the impact of
such use upon neighboring land and of the public need for the particular use at
the particular location, the SPECIAL USE may or may not be granted.
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: A business establishment engaged in selling to
retailers or jobbers rather than consumers.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear
yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building
shall be used.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side yard
lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and
the main building or any projections thereof other than the projection of the
usual steps, entranceway, unenclosed balconies, or open porch.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the rear yard shall
be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall, in all
cases, be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard. 
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. Ord. 98-4-8M, 4-8-1998; Ord. 2011-6-8L,
6-8-2011; 2018-3-14Q, 3-14-2018; Ord. 2020-6-10E, 6-10-2020; Ord. 2020-6-10F,
6-10-2020)
CHAPTER 3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
12-3-1:   Enforcement Officials
12-3-2:   Plats
12-3-3:   Certificate Of Occupancy
12-3-4:   Amendments
12-3-5:   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   See subsection
3-10-1I of this Code for fees
12-3-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
It shall be the duty of the Director of Building and Code Enforcement, or his/
her successor or designee, to enforce this title. Appeal from the decision of
the Director or his/her designee may be to the Zoning Board of Appeals, as
provided in article A of this chapter.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-3-2: PLATS:
   A.   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plat
in duplicate, or duplicate prints thereof, drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape, and location of the
building to be erected, the size, shape, and locations of any existing
buildings, sewer and water locations and such other information as may be
necessary to provide for the enforcement of this title.
   B.   Also, prior to issuance of building permit, the lot to be constructed
upon shall be staked at all angles by a registered Illinois land surveyor.
   C.   A record of all applications and plats shall be in the Office of the
Director of Building and Code Enforcement, or his/her successor or designee.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-3-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required:
      1.   Change In Use Or Occupancy Of Land Or Building: Subsequent to the
effective date hereof, no change in the use or occupancy of land, nor any
change or use of occupancy in any existing building, shall be made, nor shall
any new building be occupied for any purpose until a certificate of occupancy
has been issued by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement, or his/her
designee. Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the new occupancy
complies with all the provisions of this title.
      2.   Building Construction Or Alteration: No permit for excavation or the
erection or alteration of any building shall be issued before the application
has been made and approved for a certificate of occupancy and compliance, and
no building or premises shall be occupied until that certificate and permit is
issued.
      3.   Nonconforming Uses:
         a.   A certificate of occupancy shall be required of all nonconforming
uses of land or buildings created by the passage of this title.
         b.   Application for certificates of occupancy for nonconforming uses
shall be filed with the Director of Building and Code Enforcement, or his/her
designee, by the owner or lessee of the land or building occupied by such
nonconforming use, within one year from the effective date hereof.
         c.   It shall be the duty of the Director of Building and Code
Enforcement, or his/her designee, to issue a certificate of occupancy for a
nonconforming use.
         d.   Any nonconforming use for which an occupancy permit has not been
obtained in conformity with the requirements of this subsection A3 shall be
presumed to be operating in violation of this title, and such use shall
thereupon be abated.
   B.   Record Of Certificates: A record of all certificates of occupancy shall
be kept on file in the Office of the Director of Building and Code Enforcement
of the Village, and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in land or in a building affected by the
certificate of occupancy.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-3-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Public Hearing Required; Notice: The regulations imposing and the
districts created by this title may be amended from time to time, but no such
amendments shall be made until a public hearing has been held and a report and
recommendation has been made thereon by the Village Zoning Board of Appeals. At
least fifteen (15) days’ notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in an official paper of general circulation in the Village.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Protests: In case of a written protest against any proposed amendment,
signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered as to such regulation or district, filed with Village Clerk, such
amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3)
of all the members of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this title shall be fined not less than two fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
ARTICLE A: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Section
12-3A-1:   Board Established; Definition
12-3A-2:   Qualifications Of Members
12-3A-3:   Appointments And Terms
12-3A-4:   Removals And Vacancies
12-3A-5:   Organization
12-3A-6:   Appeals
12-3A-7:   Jurisdiction And Restrictions
12-3A-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; DEFINITION:
A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established. The word “Board”, as used in
this article, shall be construed to mean the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 93-2-3D, 2-3-1993)
12-3A-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS:
Persons appointed to serve as members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
residents of the Village. Persons who are nonelected officers of the Village
and persons who may have a direct or indirect interest in a contract, work or
business of the Village shall be permitted to serve as members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals; provided, that no member of the Board shall vote on any
matter coming before said Board in which the member has a direct or indirect
pecuniary interest.
(Ord. 93-2-3D, 2-3-1993)
12-3A-3: APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS:
   A.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall, effective as of February 1, 2021,
consist of five (5) members appointed by the Village President, by and with the
approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
   B.   The Village President shall appointment two (2) members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals to serve for terms which shall expire on December 31, 2023 and
three (3) members of the Zoning Board of Appeals to serve for terms which shall
expire on December 31, 2021. Thereafter, all members of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years, commencing as of
January 1, subject to earlier removal of the appointing authority.
   C.   The term of a member appointed on or after February 1, 2021 shall
continue beyond the expiration of their appointed term until a replacement has
been appointed and has qualified.
   D.   The terms of office of all members of the Zoning Board of Appeals
serving prior to February 1, 2021 shall end on January 31, 2021.
(Ord. 93-2-3D, 2-3-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-2-12G, 2-12-2014; Ord. 2021-2-8H, 2-8-
2021)
12-3A-4: REMOVALS AND VACANCIES:
   A.   The Village President shall have the power to remove any member of the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
   B.   If any vacancies occur on the Zoning Board of Appeals prior to the
expiration of the term of a member, the vacancy shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant through an
appointment by the Village President, by and with the approval of the Village
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 93-2-3D, 2-3-1993)
12-3A-5: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chair:
      1.   One of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed
by the Village President as Chair of the Board. The person appointed as Chair
shall continue to serve as Chair until his successor is appointed and has
qualified.
      2.   The Chair of the Board, or in his absence, the Acting Chair, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   B.   Meetings And Hearings:
      1.   All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of
the Chair and at such times as the Board may determine.
      2.   All hearings conducted by the Board shall be open to the public.
      3.   a. If any person appointed to be a member of the Village Zoning
Board of Appeals fails to attend meetings of the Board on three (3) consecutive
occasions, he shall be considered to have resigned his office as a member of
the Board, unless the person received the prior approval and consent of the
Village President to miss one or more of the meetings.
         b.   In the event a person appointed to be a member of the Zoning
Board of Appeals is considered to have resigned pursuant to subsection B3a of
this section, a vacancy shall be created in the office to which such person was
appointed and the Village President, subject to the approval of the Corporate
Authorities of the Village, may appoint another person to fill such vacancy.
   C.   Minutes: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact, and also keep records of its hearings
and other official actions.
   D.   Secretary: The Village shall hire and designate a non-voting Secretary
for the Zoning Board. The Secretary shall take and prepare minutes for all
proceedings of the Zoning Board and keep a full and detailed record of the
Zoning Board's proceedings. Every order, action, requirement, decision and
determination of the Zoning Board shall be filed in the office of the Board.
   E.   Rules Of Procedure: The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure
not in conflict with this title or with the Illinois Statutes in such case made
and provided.
(Ord. 85-7-3G, 7-3-1985; amd. Ord. 93-2-3D, 2-3-1993; Revised Zoning Ord., 8-
15-1993; Ord. 2014-2-12G, 2-12-2014; Ord. 2021-2-8H, 2-8-2021)
12-3A-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal; Notice: An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals
by any person, firm, or corporation, or by an officer, department, Board or
bureau affected by a decision of the Director of Building and Code Enforcement,
or his/her designee. Such appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be
prescribed by the Board of Appeals by general rule, by filing with the
Director, or designee, and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The Director or his/her designee, shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all of the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Director of Building and
Code Enforcement or his/her designee, certifies to the Board of Appeals, after
the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that, by reason of facts stated
in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to the
life or property, in which case, the proceedings shall not be stayed, otherwise
than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board of Appeals or by
a court of record on application, on notice to the Director or his/her
designee, and on due cause shown.
   C.   Hearing: The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the
hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall
render a decision on the appeal without reasonable delay. Any person may appear
and testify at the hearing in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
   D.   Fee: A fee as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection 3-10-1I
of this Code, shall be paid to the secretary of the Board of Appeals at the
time the notice of appeal is filed, which the secretary shall forthwith pay
over to the Finance Director to the credit of the General Revenue Fund of the
Village.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. 2019 Code)
12-3A-7: JURISDICTION AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The Board of Appeals shall have the following powers, and it shall be
its duty:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Director of Building
and Code Enforcement or his/her designee, in the enforcement of this title, or
to hear and decide any of the appeals provided in this section.
      2.   In hearing and deciding appeals, the Board shall have the power to:
         a.   Permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot or tract held in a single ownership at the effective
date hereof.
         b.   Interpret the provisions of this title in such a way as to carry
out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the map fixing the
several districts, accompanying and made a part of this title, where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map
aforesaid.
         c.   Permit the erection and use of a building or the use of premises
for railroad or public utility purposes.
         d.   Permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been damaged by explosion, fire, act of nature, or public enemy, to the extent
of more than sixty percent (60%) of its assessed value, were the Board finds
some compelling necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming use and
the primary purpose of continuing the nonconforming use is not to continue a
monopoly.
         e.   Extend the period within which a nonconforming commercial or
industrial use is to be removed from a dwelling district and a nonconforming
industrial building from any business or commercial district when the owner or
owners can furnish substantial proof that the building was so extensively
remodeled, re-constructed, or structurally altered after the original
construction that it practically resulted in a new building, but such extension
of the period shall not exceed forty (40) years form the date of such
remodeling, reconstruction, or structural alteration.
         f.   Waive the parking requirements herein established whenever the
character or use of the building is such as to make unnecessary the full
provision of parking facilities, or where such regulations would impose an
unreasonable hardship upon the use of the lot, as contrasted with merely
granting an advantage or convenience.
         g.   Permit land within two hundred feet (200') of a multiple dwelling
to be improved for the parking spaces required in connection with a multiple
dwelling, but only when there is positive assurance that such land can be used
for such purposes during the existence of the multiple dwelling.
         h.   Permit a variation in the yard requirements of any district where
there are unusual and practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
carrying out of these provisions due to an irregular shape of the lot,
topographical or other conditions, provided such variation will not seriously
affect any adjoining property or the general welfare.
         i.   Permit a limited increase in the number of employees permitted in
processing activities in the Commercial, Service and Light Industrial or
Industrial District, but only when such increase will not adversely affect the
commercial character of the establishment, will not be detrimental to or
adversely affect the character of the surrounding residential development or
will not seriously increase traffic or parking congestion on adjoining streets.
      3.   Authorize upon appeal, whenever a property owner can show that a
strict application of the terms of this title relating to the use,
construction, or alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land will
impose unusual and practical difficulties or particular hardship, such
variations of the strict application of the terms of this title as are in
harmony with its general purposes and intent, but only when the Board is
satisfied that a granting of such variation will not merely serve as a
convenience to the applicant, but will alleviate some demonstrable and unusual
hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation from the
Comprehensive Plan as established by this title, and at the same time the
surrounding property will be properly protected.
   B.   In consideration of all appeals and all proposed variations to this
title, the Zoning Board shall, before making any variation from this title in a
specific case, first determine that the proposed variation will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, or unreasonably increase
the congestion in public streets, or increase the danger of fire or endanger
the public safety, or unreasonably diminish or impair established property
values within the surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public
health, safety, comfort, moral or general welfare of the inhabitants of the
Village. The concurring vote of three (3) members of the Zoning Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Director of Building and Code Enforcement or his/her designee, or to decide in
favor of the applicant, or to make a recommendation to the Village Board of
Trustees in any matter upon which it is authorized by this title to render a
decision.
   C.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant the Board
the power or authority to alter or change the zoning ordinance or the district
map, such power and authority being reserved to the Village President and the
Board of Trustees in the manner provided in section
12-3-4 of this chapter.
   D.   In exercising the above powers, the Board may reverse or affirm wholly
or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end, shall have all the powers of the Director
of Building and Code Enforcement from whom the appeal is taken.
   E.   The Board shall make no recommendation except in a specific case and
after a public hearing conducted by the Board. A notice of the time and place
of the public hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation in
the Village at least fifteen (15) days previous to the hearing. Such notice
shall contain the address or location of the property for which the variation
or other rule of the Board is sought, as well as a brief description of the
nature of the appeal.
   F.   No order of the Board permitting the erection or alteration of a
building shall be valid for a period longer than one year, unless a building
permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such
erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with
the term of the permit.
   G.   No order of the Board permitting a use of a building or premises shall
be valid for a period longer than one year unless the use is established within
such period; provided, however, that where such use permitted is dependent upon
the erection or alteration of a building, the order shall continue in force and
effect if a building permit for the erection or alteration is obtained within
such period, and the erection or alteration is started and proceeds to
completion in accordance with the terms of the permit.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. Ord. 2021-2-8H, 2-8-2021)
ARTICLE B: SPECIAL USES
Section
12-3B-1:   Special Uses Enumerated
12-3B-2:   Required Information
12-3B-3:   Report Of Board Of Appeals To President And Board Of Trustees;
Action By Trustees
12-3B-4:   Cannabis Special Use
12-3B-5:   Cannabis Special Use Criteria
12-3B-6:    Cannabis Special Use Application
12-3B-1: SPECIAL USES ENUMERATED:
The Village President and Board of Trustees may, by a special use permit, after
a public hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals and advertised as
provided in article A of this chapter and subject to such protective
restrictions that are deemed necessary, authorize the location or extension of
any of the following uses:
Any use not otherwise allowed as a permitted or special use under the district
regulations for the A, C, D, DD, E, F and G zoning districts may be allowed as
a special use; provided, that such use is similar to the types of uses allowed
as permitted uses in the zoning district where it is to be located; and
provided, that the outward appearance of the building in which the use is to be
located is similar to the outward appearance of the buildings in the area.
Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash, garbage or other forms of waste.
Commercial, amusement or recreational development for temporary or seasonal
periods.
Greenhouses, provided any such structure shall not be less than one hundred
feet (100') from all property lines.
Privately operated commercial parking lots on land not more than three hundred
feet (300') from the boundary of any commercial, business or industrial
district, under such conditions as will protect the character of surrounding
property.
Privately operated nursery schools or preschools, kindergartens and childcare
facilities which are not used by children of a single employer.
Radio towers and radio broadcasting stations.
Removal or deposit of gravel, topsoil, or similar materials.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-3B-2: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
An applicant for a special use permit must present evidence to establish that:
   A.   The proposed use at the particular location in question is necessary or
desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the interest of the
public convenience and will contribute to the general welfare of the
neighborhood or community;
   B.   The proposed use will not have a substantial or undue adverse effect
upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood, traffic conditions,
utility facilities and other matters affecting the public health, safety and
general welfare;
   C.   The proposed use will be designed, arranged and operated so as to
permit the development and use of neighboring property in accordance with the
applicable district regulations;
   D.   The proposed use and any structures and improvements to be constructed
in conjunction with the use will be completed and maintained in a timely
manner, if authorized; and
   E.   The proposed use and any structures and improvements to be constructed
in conjunction with the use will comply with all other applicable statutes,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-3B-3: REPORT OF BOARD OF APPEALS TO PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES; ACTION
BY TRUSTEES:
   A.   Before issuance of a special use permit for any of the uses enumerated
in section
12-3B-1 of this article, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall report to the
Village President and Board of Trustees regarding the public hearing thereon
and also upon the effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of
the neighborhood, and upon traffic conditions, public utility facilities, and
other matters pertaining to the public health, public safety or general
welfare.
   B.   No action shall be taken upon any application for a special use until
and unless the report of the Zoning Board of Appeals has been made. Such report
shall be made within sixty (60) days after the hearing has been held on the
special use permit application by the Zoning Board of Appeals. If the Zoning
Board of Appeals recommends against the issuance of this special use permit,
then the special use permit may be issued only by an affirmative vote of five
(5) of the Trustees of the Village.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-3B-4: CANNABIS SPECIAL USE:
There shall be no more than two (2) adult use dispensing organization licensees
located within the corporate limits of the Village. The retail sale of cannabis
by an adult use dispensing organization licensee shall only be allowed as a
special use in the following locations:
   A.   Within PIN 09-30-201-048-0000, but only within the tenant space known
as 10441 W Touhy (Zoning District: D Commercial);
   B.   Within PIN 12-09-202-056-0000, but only within that portion of said PIN
which is located east of the existing Metra Parking lot (Zoning District G
Government and Institutional); and
   C.   Within the Village’s Entertainment District, which is defined as the
Village-owned property (or property purchased from the Village after June 10,
2020) which is located within the plat of the Rosemont Entertainment District
Subdivision recorded on May 2, 2007 as document No. 0712215139 in the office of
the Cook County Recorder of Deeds (Zoning District D Commercial).
(Ord. 2020-6-10F, 6-10-2020; amd. Ord. 2020-8-12G, 8-12-2020)
12-3B-5: SPECIAL USE CRITERIA:
In addition to satisfying all general requirements of this article for a
special use, an adult use dispensing organization licensee seeking a special
use located within the corporate boundaries of the Village must also
demonstrate its compliance with, and at times comply with all of the following:
   A.   The location must not be within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet
of any pre-existing location of any other “adult use dispensing organization
licensee” as required by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (the “Act”).
   B.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the entire tenant or building
space used by the adult use dispensing organization licensee shall be devoted
to the business of the licensee as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, 410 1LCS 705/1 et seq., as amended from time to time and the
administrative rule and regulations promulgated in furtherance of the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act. The cannabis products sold may not be cultivated,
processed, or manufactured within the location.
   C.   A licensee shall not allow anyone into the premises who is not at least
twenty one (21) years of age. No person under twenty one (21) years of age
shall be employed by the licensee.
   D.   Smoking, use or ingestion of cannabis in any form shall not be
permitted on the premises. A sign of at least eight and one half inches (8-1/
2") by eleven inches (11") shall be posted in at least two (2) conspicuous
places inside the facility visible to customers which states: “Use or
Consumption of Cannabis on this properly is strictly forbidden.”
   E.   Food shall not be sold for consumption on the premises.
   F.   All product storage, display, and sales must be conducted within an
enclosed building. Sales must be conducted, in person on the premises. Drive
through facilities are prohibited. No products can be delivered. Dispensing
products through vending machines is not allowed.
   G.   The location must at all times be operated in compliance with the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended from time to time and the
administrative rules and regulations promulgated in furtherance of the Act.
   H.   The hours of operation shall not exceed those set forth in the Act
which are six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   I.   No products sold shall be visible from the exterior of the location.
   J.   The facility shall not be operated when less than two (2) employees are
present.
   K.   The odor of cannabis or of any cannabis infused products shall not be
detectable on the exterior of the facility.
   L.   The sale of live plant material shall not be allowed.
   M.   Compliance with all the requirements of the zoning district in which
the facility is located, including compliance with all parking requirements.
   N.   No portion of the exterior of the location shall contain any spot
lights, flashing lights, search lights, or any similar lighting system.
   O.   Signage shall comply with the Village’s sign ordinance.
   P.   All signage and advertising shall comply with the requirements of 410
ILCS 705/55-20. Prohibited advertising shall include but not necessarily be
limited to advertising which:
      1.   Is false or misleading;
      2.   Promotes over consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      3.   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      4.   Depicts any person under twenty one (21) years of age consuming
cannabis;
      5.   Makes any health, medicinal or therapeutic claims about cannabis or
any cannabis product;
      6.   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf or bud; or
      7.   Includes any image designed to appeal to minors, including cartoons,
toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to images, characters, or
phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing to or encourage
consumption by persons under twenty one (21) years of age.
   Q.   No licensee shall place, maintain or cause to be placed or maintained,
an advertisement of cannabis or a cannabis product in any form or through any
medium:
      1.   Within one thousand (1,000) feet of the perimeter of school grounds,
a playground, a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public
park or a public library, or a game arcade to which admission is not restricted
to persons twenty one (21) years of age or older;
      2.   On or in a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter; or
      3.   On or in publically owned or publically operated property.
   R.   Compliance with an operation plan that includes the following:
      1.   A customer sales area located behind a locked door into which
customers must be buzzed into only after their identification is checked and it
is determined the customer is at least twenty one (21) years of age. The age of
the purchaser shall be verified by a government issued identification card and
the use of an electronic reader or electronic scanning device;
      2.   Monitoring by video surveillance of the customer entrance area,
parking area, sales area, back rooms, storage areas, delivery and loading bay
areas and any other exterior doors. The video surveillance must be capable of
being reviewed live by agents and employees of the licensee and must be
continually recorded in a tamper proof format. The recordings must be
maintained for a period of at least thirty (30) days. The licensee shall make
the recordings available to the Village’s Superintendent of Public Safety or
his designee upon request for the purpose of conducting criminal investigations
and to ensure compliance with the location’s operational plan, the Act, as well
as all related regulations. Operation of the facility is prohibited if the
video surveillance equipment is not operable. All areas viewed by video
surveillance must be sufficiently illuminated;
      3.   The posting and maintenance of a sign in a prominent location which
states the following: “This area is under live/recorded video surveillance to
aid in the prosecution of any crimes committed against this facility or its
patrons;”
      4.   Burglar and panic alarms with a direct connection to the Village’s
911 provider;
      5.   A method to prevent long lines at the location and congestion during
peak demand periods by the utilization of texting, an appointment system and/or
mobile applications to notify customers when they may enter the facility;
      6.   Information required by the State for each sale must be entered into
the State’s cannabis electronic verification system. Each item of cannabis,
cannabis concentrate, or cannabis infused product must be separately identified
by quantity and price on the receipt. Operation of the facility is prohibited
if: point of sale equipment is inoperative; or if the State’s cannabis
electronic verification system is inoperative; and
      7.   The method for the disposal of any cannabis products that are not
sold that adheres to State law and regulations.
(Ord. 2020-6-10F, 6-10-2020)
12-3B-6: SPECIAL USE APPLICATION:
An application for a special use under this article shall include all of the
following information:
   A.   A site plan showing the location of all buildings, building entrances,
parking areas and spaces, public and private sidewalks, adjacent streets and
surrounding property uses;
   B.   Building elevations;
   C.   Lighting plan;
   D.   Signage plan;
   E.   An operational plan meeting the requirements of section
12-3B-5;
   F.   An interior floor plan showing the sales area, the purchase area,
storage area, delivery area, and the area where identification is checked to
determine the customer’s age; and
   G.   Any other documentation necessary to show compliance with any of the
requirements of section
12-3B-5.
(Ord. 2020-6-10F, 6-10-2020)
ARTICLE C: TEMPORARY USES IN D AND E DISTRICTS
Section
12-3C-1:   Permit And Compliance Required
12-3C-2:   Application For Permit; Fee
12-3C-3:   Term Of Permit; Renewals
12-3C-4:   Temporary Uses Enumerated
12-3C-5:   Additional Restrictions And Conditions
12-3C-6:   Penalties
12-3C-1: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   A temporary use permit shall be required prior to the establishment of
any temporary use authorized under this article.
   B.   Temporary uses are permitted when authorized by a temporary use permit
issued by the Director of Building and Code Enforcement or his/her designee.
   C.   Compliance with the standards of this title and with the requirements
of the temporary use permit shall be a prerequisite for the continued validity
of all temporary use permits.
(Ord. 2015-5-20K, 5-20-2015)
12-3C-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Application for a temporary use permit shall be made by the person
seeking temporary use authority to the Director of Building and Code
Enforcement or his/her designee. The Director or his/her designee, in order to
determine whether or not the applicant will meet the standards set forth in
this title, may require the applicant to submit any or all of the following
information:
      1.   A survey of the property to be leased, rented or used for the
temporary use.
      2.   The lease, license or other legal authorization under which
applicant will be permitted to use the property for the temporary use.
      3.   Any other evidence required by the Director or his/her designee, so
that the proposed temporary use will comply with this title.
   B.   An application for a temporary use permit shall be accompanied by a one
hundred dollar ($100.00) application fee.
(Ord. 2015-5-20K, 5-20-2015)
 
12-3C-3: TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWALS:
A temporary use permit shall be valid for the period of time stated in the
permit, but in no event longer than twelve (12) months. A temporary building
use permit may be reissued upon application to, and approval by, Director of
Building and Code Enforcement or his/her designee.
(Ord. 2015-5-20K, 5-20-2015)
12-3C-4: TEMPORARY USES ENUMERATED:
The following uses may be authorized by a temporary use permit:
Carnivals, circuses and other outdoor entertainment events, performances or
activities available for public admission.
Motor vehicle parking or storage in a parking structure, or on a hard surfaced
parking lot of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area, in the
D Commercial District or the E Service and Light Industrial District, during
times that the parking spaces to be utilized are not required for purposes of
meeting the motor vehicle parking requirements of the principal use served by
such parking spaces, and provided further, that any temporary use of such
parking spaces are not contractually committed by lease, easement or other
agreement for the provision of motor vehicle parking facilities, spaces or
capacity for another use, property or building.
Valet guest parking provided in a parking structure or on a hard surfaced
parking lot of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area in the D
Commercial District or the E Service and Light Industrial District, other than
a parking structure or parking lot: a) on which the principal host business is
located; or b) which the principal host business has a contractual right to
use. For purposes of this article, “valet guest parking” shall not include
overnight vehicle parking, vehicle storage, or long term parking.
(Ord. 2015-5-20K, 5-20-2015)
12-3C-5: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS:
As part of a temporary use permit, the Director of Building and Code
Enforcement or his/her designee, may impose additional restrictions and
conditions on the location and operation of the temporary use as may be deemed
necessary or appropriate by the Director for the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2015-5-20K, 5-20-2015)
12-3C-6: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article or of a temporary
use permit issued pursuant to this article shall be subject to revocation of
the temporary use permit and a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that an offense is
committed or continues.
(Ord. 2015-5-20K, 5-20-2015)
CHAPTER 4: ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
Section
12-4-1:   Districts Established
12-4-2:   District Map
12-4-3:   Determination Of District Boundaries
12-4-4:   Zoning Of Vacated Public Ways
12-4-5:   Zoning Of Annexed Territory
12-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the locations of trades,
industries and buildings designed for specified uses, to regulate and limit the
height and build of buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered, to
regulate and limit the intensity of the use of the lot areas, and to regulate
and determine the areas of yards, courts, and other open spaces surrounding
such building, the Village is hereby divided into districts, of which there
shall be eight (8) in number, known as:
A  Single-Family District
C  Multiple Dwelling District
D  Commercial District
DD Commercial District
E  Service and Light Industrial District
AU Adult Use Overlay District
F  Industrial District
G  Government and Institutional District
 
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. Ord. 98-4-8M, 4-8-1994)
12-4-2: DISTRICT MAP:
The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map which is made a part of
this title, which map is designated as the “District Map”. The District Map and
all the notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of
this title and have the same force and effect as if the District Map and all
the notations, references and other information shown thereon were all fully
set forth or described herein, the original of which District Map is properly
attested and is on file with the Village Clerk.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-4-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the District Map made a part of this title, the following
rules apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the District Map made a part of
this title are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the street or
alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   B.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the District Map made a part of this title are bounded
approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary
of the districts unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
   C.   In any unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the
District Map made a part of this title shall be determined by the use of the
scale appearing on the District Map.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-4-4: ZONING OF VACATED PUBLIC WAYS:
Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official action of
the Village President and Board of Trustees, the zoning district adjoining each
side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the
center of such vacation, and all area included in the vacation shall then and
henceforth be subject to all appropriated regulations of the extended
districts.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-4-5: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the Village shall be
automatically classified A Single- Family District until otherwise changed by
ordinance, after public hearing.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 5: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A: A SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
Section
12-5A-1:   Regulations Generally
12-5A-2:   Permitted Uses
12-5A-3:   Building Height
12-5A-4:   Area Regulations
12-5A-5:   Community Residence, Hospice And Halfway Houses
12-5A-6:   Solar Energy Systems
12-5A-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the district regulations in the A Single-
Family Districts.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Church, but any church that is on a new site shall provide permanent off street
parking space upon the lot or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, which
space is adequate to accommodate one car for every seven (7) persons for which
seating is provided in the main auditorium of the church, exclusive of the
seating capacity of Sunday school and other special rooms.
Home occupations:
   A.   Home occupations shall be permitted in a dwelling and/or accessory
buildings located within a residence district, provided all the following
conditions are met:
      1.   There shall be no signs to indicate that the dwelling and/or
accessory buildings are being used for any purpose other than as a residence.
      2.   There shall be no activity or display that will indicate from the
exterior that the dwelling and/or accessory buildings are being utilized for
any purpose other than as a residence.
      3.   The persons engaging in the home occupation shall be limited to
persons residing in the dwelling.
      4.   There shall be no external alterations, whether permanent or
temporary, to the dwelling or any accessory building as a result of the home
occupation which would diminish the residential character of the dwelling or
accessory building.
      5.   All activities and all storage undertaken in connection with or as a
result of the home occupation shall be within the dwelling and/or accessory
buildings.
      6.   The conducting of the home occupation shall not cause motor vehicle
traffic on the street or streets on which the dwelling is located to increase
to a level greater than that generally found on the same type of street located
within the same zoning district as the dwelling.
      7.   An area no more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor space of
the dwelling, including the basement, or five hundred (500) square feet of
floor space, whichever is less, shall be devoted to the home occupation.
      8.   No home occupation shall create noise, dust, vibration, odors,
smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire hazard, or any other hazard or
nuisance, visual or otherwise, to any greater or more frequent extent than that
usually experienced in a dwelling within the same zoning district under normal
circumstances when no home occupation exists.
      9.   There must be compliance with all other applicable provisions of
this title and this Code including, but not limited to, any building permit and
business license permit requirements.
      10.   There shall be no more than one home occupation in a dwelling unit.
      11.   The person conducting the home occupation must have obtained all
required permits and authorizations from any governmental body which regulates
the home occupation.
   B.   Home occupations requiring the handling of food or foodstuffs or the
caring for or treatment of humans or animals shall be permitted only if a
special use permit for the home occupation is issued by the Village Board of
Trustees after a public hearing thereon before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Parks, playgrounds and community buildings, including recreation buildings,
community centers, stadiums, exposition centers, auditoriums and arenas owned
or operated by the Village.
Public libraries.
Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a curriculum
equivalent to a public elementary school or public high school and having no
rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping purposes; provided, however, that
no private kindergarten or nursery school shall be permitted except as
otherwise provided in this title.
Single-family dwelling, except no single-family dwelling shall be used for a
short-term rental.
Accessory uses, customarily incidental to the above uses (not including the
conduct of a business) including home occupations and the use of a lot or
portion thereof for a normal vegetable garden. Any accessory building that is
not a part of the main structure shall be located not less than eighteen inches
(18") from the rear lot line (as “rear lot line”
Community Residences, Hospices and Halfway Houses: Subject to the following
requirements and to the regulations set forth in section 12-5A-5 of this
article, a small community residence which is intended to be occupied by
between five (5) and nine (9) persons with disabilities or with four (4) or
fewer persons with disabilities, plus support staff provided by a sponsoring
agency, shall be permitted only if an administrative occupancy permit or
special use permit is obtained. A small community residence shall not qualify
for an administrative occupancy permit if it is to be located less than one
thousand feet (1,000') from either an existing small community residence, a
large community residence, hospice or halfway house. Large community
residences, halfway houses, hospices and small community residences located
less than one thousand feet (1,000') from an existing small community
residence, large community residence, hospice or halfway house shall be
permitted only if a special use permit is issued in accordance with the
procedures and requirements set forth in chapter 3, article B of this title. No
special use permit shall be issued for a community residence, halfway house or
hospice unless the applicant presents evidence to establish that:
   A.   The proposed building or use at the particular location requested is
necessary or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the
interest of the public convenience and will contribute to the general welfare
of a neighborhood community.
   B.   The proposed building or use will not have a substantial or undue
adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of a neighborhood, traffic
conditions, utility facilities, and other matters affecting the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   C.   The proposed building or use will be designed, arranged and operated so
as to permit the development and use of neighboring property in accordance with
the applicable district regulations.
   D.   There shall be reasonable assurance that the proposed buildings or use
will be completed and maintained in a timely manner, if authorized.
   E.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is eligible
for all required State or local licenses or certifications required to operate
the proposed use. No special use permit shall be issued for any use for which a
required local or State license has been denied.
   F.   The proposed use or building will comply with all applicable statutes,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
Off street parking must be provided.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. Ord. 2018-3-14Q, 3-14-2018; 2019 Code)
12-5A-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (2-1-2) stories nor shall it exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2013-12-11G, 12-11-2013)
12-5A-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than twenty
five feet (25'), unless forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on the same
side of the street between two (2) intersecting streets is improved with
buildings that have observed a front yard line with a greater or less depth,
and the front yards of such buildings have a variation in depth of not more
than ten feet (10'), in which case, no building shall project beyond the
average front yard so established, but this regulation shall not be interpreted
to require a front yard of more than thirty five feet (35').
      2.   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
      3.   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each street of a corner lot; provided,
however, that the buildable width of such lot need not be reduced to less than
thirty five feet (35'), except where necessary to provide a yard along the side
street with a depth of not less than five feet (5'). No accessory building
shall project beyond the front yard line on either street.
   B.   Side Yards: Except as hereinafter provided, there shall be a side yard
on each side of a building having a width of not less than ten percent (10%) of
the lot frontage or six feet (6'), whichever is less.
   C.   Rear Yard: Except as hereinafter provided, there shall be a rear yard
having a depth of not less than thirty feet (30') or twenty percent (20%) of
the depth of the lot, whichever amount is smaller.
   D.   Intensity Of Use: Every lot or tract of land shall have an area of not
less than six thousand one hundred fifty (6,150) square feet, excepting any lot
or tract of land that has less area than herein required and was of record at
the effective date hereof, which, on that date, is under different ownership
than property adjoining it on either side, that lot or tract may be used for
any of the uses permitted by this article.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-5A-5: COMMUNITY RESIDENCE, HOSPICE AND HALFWAY HOUSES:
   A.   Small Community Residence; Administrative Occupancy Permit Required:
      1.   Prior to establishing a small community residence which is intended
to house between five (5) and nine (9) persons with disabilities or four (4) or
fewer persons with disabilities, plus support staff, the agency sponsoring the
community residence or the owner of the building in which the community
residence is to be located must first obtain an administrative occupancy permit
from the Chair of the Village Zoning Board of Appeals. No administrative
occupancy permit shall be issued for a small community residence unless: a) the
small community residence is to be located at least one thousand feet (1,000')
from any existing community residence, hospice or halfway house as measured
from lot line to lot line; and b) the applicant demonstrates that it has either
obtained or is eligible for State or local licensing or certification to
operate the proposed small community residence, or that the proposed small
community residence is licensed or certified or eligible for licensing or
certification.
      2.   The Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals may revoke an
administrative occupancy permit issued for a small community residence if the
license or certification of the small community residence or the operator's
license or certification to operate community residences is revoked.
      3.   An administrative certificate of occupancy is not transferable to
another operator or to another location.
   B.   Number Of Residents: The number of persons permitted to reside in a
community residence, hospice or halfway house shall depend on the number and
size of bedrooms located within the community residence, hospice or halfway
house. A bedroom which is used by or assigned to one person shall have an area
of not less than seventy (70) square feet. A bedroom which is used by or
assigned to two (2) or more persons shall have an area of not less than fifty
(50) square feet per person. No bedroom shall be used or assigned for use by
more than four (4) persons. No area within a community residence, hospice or
halfway house shall regularly be used for sleeping except for a bedroom.
   C.   Application For Administrative Occupancy Permit Or Special Use Permit:
An application for an administrative occupancy permit or a special use permit
must contain a statement of the exact nature of the community residence,
hospice or halfway house, the qualifications of the agency which will operate
the community residence, halfway house or hospice, the number and type of
personnel who will be employed, and the number and nature of the residents who
will live in the community residence, hospice or halfway house.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-5A-6: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Solar panels and solar panel energy systems may only be authorized as a
special use in the “A” Single-Family Residential District by the Corporate
Authorities after a public hearing conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   B.   Notice of the date, time and place for a public hearing on any request
for a special use to allow either solar panels or any solar panel energy
systems shall be given: (1) by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Village at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the
hearing; and (2) by certified mail to the addresses of all lots located within
one hundred fifty feet (150') feet from the lot requesting the special use. The
cost of the notice shall be paid by the applicant.
   C.   A special use for solar panels and/or a solar panel energy systems may
be granted only if it is determined that the general special use criteria
contained in this title are satisfied and also determined that each and every
one of the following criteria are also satisfied.
      1.   Satisfaction of Utility Requirements: If the solar energy system is
to be connected to the electric grid all the requirements of the operator of
the electric grid must be satisfied, including all notification, design and
construction requirements. If the utility requires either prior notification or
its approval of the installation, evidence of satisfaction of the utility's
requirements must be provided to the Village with the application for the
special use.
      2.   Glare: Installation of the solar panels shall not cause glare that
adversely impacts adjacent properties. A solar panel or combination of solar
panels shall be designated and located to avoid glare or reflection onto
adjacent properties and adjacent roadways and shall not interfere with traffic
or create a safety hazard. In order to minimize glare, all solar panels shall
be made of a textured surface and manufactured with an anti-reflective coating.
If the installation requires the approval of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA), that approval shall be obtained prior to applying for a
special use.
      3.   Emergency Disconnect: All solar energy systems connected to the
electric grid shall have an external disconnect switch that is readily
accessible to emergency responders, and which is clearly identifiable and
unobstructed.
      4.   Tree Removal: Tree removal shall be minimized.
      5.   Freestanding Solar Panels Prohibited: Freestanding solar panels
shall not be permitted.
      6.   Principal Structure Roof Installation: Solar panels shall not be
installed in any location other than the surface of the roof of the principal
structure on the property, including any garage attached to the principal
structure. Garages attached only by a breezeway or covered walkway shall not be
considered as an attached garage under this section. Solar panels shall not be
constructed on any part of the vertical portion of a mansard roof and shall not
be mounted on any vertical portion of a structure.
      7.   Roof Protrusions: Solar panels shall not obstruct any roof vents or
interfere with the proper operation of any other protrusions through the roof.
      8.   Sloped Roofs: Solar panels on sloped roofs shall be mounted parallel
with the surface of a pitched roof. The solar energy collection surface of the
solar panel shall not be more than twelve (12) inches above the surface of the
roof when measured perpendicular from the surface of the pitched roof. No
portion of the solar panel can be higher than the height of the highest ridge
line. Solar panels also cannot be within twenty four inches (24") (as measured
along the surface of the roof) from either any roof edge or any roof line
between different roof surfaces.
      9.   Roof Access; Sloped Roofs: In order to minimize interference with
firefighting operations and to maintain firefighter safety, solar panels shall
not be located on a sloped roof face that faces the front yard or side yard of
a lot and shall only be located on a roof face that faces the rear lot line or
the interior rear yard. If the angle made by a line from a point on roof that
is perpendicular to the side lot line and a line running along and parallel to
the same roof surface is greater than one hundred thirty five (135) degrees,
the roof surface shall be not be considered as facing the side lot line.
      10.   Flat Roofs: A solar panel collection surface mounted on a flat roof
shall not extend above the building parapet. No such mounted panel shall be
visible from adjacent properties. No more than fifty percent (50%) of the roof
surface shall be used for solar panels. The solar panels shall be consolidated
into array groupings located toward the center of the roof, rather than
situated in a disjointed manner. No such mounted panel shall exceed the maximum
permitted height.
      11.   Artificially Lighted: No solar panel shall be artificially lighted.
      12.   Building Permit: A building permit shall be required prior to
erecting any solar panel or solar energy system. Mounting for such systems
shall be in conformance with all Electrical Codes and Building Codes to ensure
wind and weight loading requirements are met. All battery storage areas shall
be in full compliance with all Building Codes and industry best practices.
Plans shall be stamped by a licensed structural engineer and by a qualified
inspector for such installations. All installation must be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Village.
      13.   Special Use: The approval of a special use for solar panels and
solar panel energy systems shall be subject to such conditions as necessary to
require that their operation at all times be in compliance with the terms of
this section and all applicable Building Code requirements.
(Ord. 2020-6-10E, 6-10-2020)
ARTICLE B: C MULTIPLE DWELLING DISTRICT
Section
12-5B-1:   Regulations Generally
12-5B-2:   Permitted Uses
12-5B-3:   Parking Requirements
12-5B-4:   Building Height
12-5B-5:   Area Regulations
12-5B-6:   Community Residence, Hospice And Halfway Houses
12-5B-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the district regulations in the C
Multiple Dwelling Districts.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Church.
Fraternity, sorority, private club, and lodge, excepting those, the chief
activity of which, is a service customarily carried on as a business.
Group or row houses, except no group or row house shall be used for a short-
term rental.
Hospital, except an animal hospital or a mental hospital.
Institutions of a religious, educational, elementary, or philanthropic nature,
but not penal or mental institutions.
Kindergarten and nursery school.
Multiple dwellings, except no multiple dwelling shall be used for a short-term
rental.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses,
including storage garages, where the lot is occupied by a multiple dwelling,
club or hospital or institutional building.
Community residences, halfway houses and hospices subject to the following
requirements and to the requirements set forth in section 12-5B-6 of this
article. Large community residences shall be permitted only if an
administrative occupancy permit or special use permit is obtained. A large
community residence does not qualify for an administrative occupancy permit
because it is located less than six hundred feet (600') from either an existing
community residence, hospice or halfway house. Hospices, halfway houses and
large community residences located less than six hundred feet (600') from an
existing community residence, halfway house or hospice shall be permitted only
if a special use permit is issued in accordance with the procedures and
requirements of chapter 3, article B of this title. No special use permit shall
be issued for a large community residence, hospice or halfway house unless the
applicant presents evidence to establish that:
   A.   The proposed building or use at the particular location requested is
necessary or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the
interest of the public convenience and will contribute to the general welfare
of a neighborhood community.
   B.   The proposed building or use will not have a substantial or undue
adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of a neighborhood, traffic
conditions, utility facilities, and other matters affecting the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   C.   The proposed building or use will be designed, arranged and operated so
as to permit the development and use of neighboring property in accordance with
the applicable district regulations.
   D.   There shall be reasonable assurance that the proposed buildings or use
will be completed and maintained in a timely manner, if authorized.
   E.   The applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is eligible
for all required State or local licenses or certifications required to operate
the proposed use. No special use permit shall be issued for any use for which a
required local or State license has been denied.
   F.   The proposed use or building will comply with all applicable statutes,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. Ord. 2013-3-14Q, 3-14-2018)
12-5B-3: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Whenever a structure is erected, converted or structurally altered for
a multiple dwelling, there shall be provided accessible parking space on the
lot adequate to accommodate not less than one and one- half (1-1/2) cars for
each dwelling unit in the building.
   B.   Whenever a structure is erected, converted or structurally altered for
a hospital or similar institution, there shall be provided accessible parking
space on the lot adequate to accommodate one car for every five (5) beds in the
hospital or institution.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-5B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty five feet (45') in height,
except as hereinafter provided.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-5B-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The front yard regulations are the same as those in the A
Single-Family District.
   B.   Side Yards: Except as hereinafter provided, there shall be a side yard
on each side of a three (3) story building which shall have a width of not less
than eight feet (8').
   C.   Intensity Of Use: Except as hereinafter provided, every dwelling
hereafter erected, enlarged, relocated, reconstructed, or structurally altered
shall be located upon the lots containing the following areas:
      1.   A lot on which there is erected a multiple dwelling shall contain an
area of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet per family
or dwelling unit; except, that this regulation shall not apply to dormitories,
fraternities or sororities where no cooking is done in individual rooms or
apartments.
      2.   Where a lot has less area than herein required and was of record at
the effective date hereof, that lot may be used only for single-family dwelling
purposes or for any of the other nondwelling uses permitted in this article.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-5B-6: COMMUNITY RESIDENCE, HOSPICE AND HALFWAY HOUSES:
   A.   Community Residence; Administrative Occupancy Permit Required:
      1.   No community residence shall be established unless the sponsoring
agency first obtains an administrative occupancy permit from the Chair of the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
      2.   No administrative occupancy permit shall be issued for a large
community residence unless the large community residence is at least six
hundred feet (600') from any existing community residence as measured from lot
line to lot line.
      3.   No administrative permit shall be issued for a community residence
unless the applicant demonstrates that it has either obtained or is eligible
for State or local licensing or certification to operate the proposed community
residence, or that the proposed community residence is licensed or certified or
eligible for licensing or certification.
      4.   The Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals may revoke a certificate of
occupancy for a community residence if its license or certification or the
operator's license or certification to operate large community residences is
revoked.
      5.   An administrative occupancy permit is not transferable to another
operator or to another location.
   B.   Number Of Residents: The maximum number of persons who may reside in a
community residence, hospice or halfway house is based on the number and size
of bedrooms. A bedroom which is used or intended for use by one person shall
have a floor area of not less than seventy (70) square feet. A bedroom which is
used or intended for use by two (2) or more persons shall have an area of not
less than fifty (50) square feet per person. No bedroom shall be used or
assigned for use by more than four (4) persons. No area in a community
residence, halfway house, or hospice shall be regularly used for sleeping by
residents except for a bedroom.
   C.   Application For Administrative Occupancy Permit Or Special Use Permit:
An application for an administrative occupancy permit or a special use permit
must contain a statement of the exact nature of the community residence,
hospice or halfway house, the qualifications of the agency which will operate
the community residence, halfway house or hospice, the number and type of
personnel who will be employed and the number and nature of the residents who
will live in the community residence, hospice or halfway house.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 6: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A: D COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
12-6A-1:   Regulations Generally
12-6A-2:   Permitted Uses
12-6A-3:   Special Uses
12-6A-4:   Redevelopment Area; Additional Permitted Uses
12-6A-5:   Building Height
12-6A-6:   Parking
12-6A-7:   Area Regulations
12-6A-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this article, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this article, are the district regulations in the D
Commercial Districts.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Any use permitted in the C Multiple Dwelling Districts.
Advertising signs and bulletin boards as provided in the Sign and Other
Advertising Structures Code (see title 11, chapter 7 of this Code for signs and
other advertising devices).
Bakery, whose products are sold only at retail on the premises.
Bank.
Barbershop or beauty parlor.
Business or commercial school, or dancing or music academy.
Catering establishment.
Curtain cleaning and rug cleaning store not employing more than seven (7)
persons on the premises.
Dyeing and cleaning works, provided the cleaning fluid used has a base which is
of a material other than petroleum or one of its derivatives and that not more
than seven (7) employees shall be engaged upon the premises.
Electric distribution center and gas regulating center constructed in
compliance with the height and area regulations of this article.
Food storage lockers.
Furnace, heating, and sheet metal shops or stores not employing more than seven
(7) persons on the premises.
Hospital and clinic for animals, but not open kennels.
Laundromat.
Local service store or repair shop when used to supply a service to residents
of the Village or to those in the immediate surrounding area, but involving no
manufacturing on the premises, and where the treatment of materials is such
that the noise, dust, odor, gas or smoke resulting from the process or
treatment will not be objectionable to the surrounding residence districts. Not
more than seven (7) persons shall be employed in any service store or repair
shop.
Milk distributing stations, but not involving any bottling on the premises.
Offices.
Plumbing shop employing not more than seven (7) persons on the premises.
Public garage; provided, however, that the portion of the public garage that is
used for the servicing or repair of autos shall not occupy more than sixty
percent (60%) of the total floor area.
Public stadiums, sports complexes and related parking structures within the
Ballpark Zone area bounded by Balmoral Avenue on the south, Pearl Street on the
west, Jennie Finch Way (Bryn Mawr Avenue) on the north and I-294 on the east.
Radio broadcasting and telecasting stations, studio, and offices.
Recreation or amusement building.
Retail store or shop.
Sales room or showroom.
Tailor, millinery, dressmaking or similar shops.
Taxicab office or stand.
Undertaking establishment, but only when permanent off street parking space is
provided on the lot or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, which space is
adequate to accommodate one car for every seven (7) seats provided in the
chapel or rooms where funeral services are conducted.
Upholstery shop not employing more than seven (7) persons on the premises, and
not involving any furniture manufacturing whatsoever.
Used car sales or storage lots.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. Ord. 2017-3-8E, 3-8-2017)
12-6A-3: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Hotels, motels, restaurants, car washes, commercial parking lots,
theaters, gasoline filling stations, billboard-type advertising signs and other
pole-type advertising signs which advertise activities, products or services
that are not conducted on the premises on which the signs are located when such
advertising signs are located within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the
right-of-way for an “interstate highway” or a “primary highway” as defined in
the Illinois Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971 (225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.),
public passenger vehicle storage, and long term airport parking may be allowed
by special use permit issued by the Village Board of Trustees after a public
hearing thereon before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2014-5-14G, 5-14-2014; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The special use provisions of this section shall only apply to new
hotel, motel, restaurant, car wash, commercial parking lot, theater and
gasoline filling station uses established after September 15, 1976, shall apply
only to new advertising signs on which construction began after January 31,
2008, and shall only apply to new public passenger vehicle storage uses
established after June 8, 2011.
   C.   Any hotel, motel, restaurant, car wash, commercial parking lot, theater
and gasoline filling station established under the provisions of this title
prior to September 15, 1976, shall be considered as a lawful conforming use for
all purposes under the this title.
   D.   Any billboard-type advertising signs and other pole-type advertising
signs which advertise activities, products or services that are not conducted
on the premises where such signs are located and which are located within six
)hundred sixty feet (660') of the right-of-way for an “interstate highway” or a
“primary highway”, as defined in the Illinois Highway Advertising Control Act
of 1971 (225 ILCS 440/1 et seq., which were erected or on which construction
began prior to February 1, 2008, shall be considered as lawful conforming uses
for all purposes under this title.
   E.   It shall not be lawful to use commercial parking lots established prior
to May 14, 2014, for long- term airport parking without approval of a long-term
airport parking special use, and then only to the extent that the parking
capacity of such commercial parking lots is not required under this title to be
provided for employee use or for short-term patron or guest use.
(Ord. 2014-5-14G, 5-14-2014)
12-6A-4: REDEVELOPMENT AREA; ADDITIONAL PERMITTED USES:
The following land use provisions and building requirements are established for
land and uses subject to a redevelopment plan and redevelopment agreement and
within redevelopment project areas in the Village. Development in accordance
with the land uses and building requirements of this section may be allowed by
special use permit issued by the Village Board of Trustees after a public
hearing thereon before the Zoning Board of Appeals, notwithstanding more
restrictive provisions contained in sections 12-6A-3, 12-6A-5, 12-6A-6 and 12-
6A-7 of this article or in chapter 12 or 13 of this title.
(Ord. 2011-9-14G, 9-14-2011; amd. 2019 Code)
   A.   Land Uses: The building or premises may be used for any one or more of
the uses permitted in section 12-6A-2 of this article and, in addition, any one
or more of the following additional uses or purposes:
      1.   Regional shopping area/commercial. The regional shopping area is the
high intensity, compact, pedestrian-oriented shopping center in the Village. A
broad range of compatible retail and service uses are permitted, including:
All or portions of any regional shopping area/commercial may also be used for
any office and/or hotel and related uses specified in subsection A2 of this
section.
Off street public and private structure and interim use surface parking,
including bicycle parking.
Retail trade. Those retail land uses which serve the regional market by virtue
of their variety, quality, or specialization of merchandise, including food and
drugs; eating establishments and eating and drinking establishments; theaters;
general merchandise; apparel and accessories; furniture, furnishings, and
appliances; hardware; art dealers; antiques; books, stationery and art
supplies; sporting goods; toy and hobby shops; jewelry stores; florists; camera
and photographic supplies; optical goods; cigar stores; news dealers; gift,
novelty and souvenir stores; and other pedestrian-oriented and similar
compatible and retail uses.
Services. Those appropriate activities which serve the daily convenience needs
of employees and shoppers, including banks and other financial institutions;
photographic studios; beauty shops and barbershops; shoe repair shops;
instructional services; watch and jewelry repair; theaters; travel bureaus;
blueprinting and photostating; visitor information centers; and other similar
and compatible service uses.
Village facilities and services.
      2.   Office and hotel and related uses.
Financial institutions.
Hotels and motels.
Off street public and private parking structures and surface parking, including
bicycle parking.
Offices. Administrative offices and office headquarters; insurance and real
estate offices; professional (e.g., legal, dental and medical) offices; medical
and clinical related activities; business services; and other similar and
compatible uses.
Public open spaces.
Services. Those appropriate activities which serve the daily convenience needs
of employees, patrons, visitors and shoppers, including banks and other
financial institutions; photographic studios; beauty shops and barbershops;
shoe repair shops; instructional services; watch and jewelry repair; theaters;
restaurants and eating and drinking establishments; travel bureaus;
blueprinting and photostating; visitor information centers; and other similar
compatible service uses.
      3.   Commercial shopping area. The commercial shopping area would include
a broad range of compatible retail and service uses in a compact, integrated,
pedestrian oriented shopping center, but not of a regional shopping center
size. Permitted uses would include all of those uses specified in subsections
A1 and A2 of this section.
      4.   Schools/recreation area.
Parks, playlots, and public open space.
Public schools.
   B.   Building Heights And Massing:
      1.   Provide for the massing of buildings and related open spaces in
order to create a distinct and interesting area with internal focal points for
identification and orientation for pedestrians.
      2.   Building heights shall be permitted to the maximum permitted by the
Federal Aviation Authority; except, that no building shall exceed one hundred
seventy five feet (175') in height except upon a variation granted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals as provided in subsection 12-3A-7A3 of this title.
   C.   Parking:
      1.   Provide for an adequate supply of appropriately located off street
short-term patron and long- term employee parking spaces with parking ratios
for uses in accordance with good planning practice. Where structures are
utilized, such facilities should be visually integrated with new development.
Access to such facilities should not conflict with major pedestrian movements
and should be located to prevent conflicts with other vehicular movements.
      2.   Provide parking areas with buffering, screening, and/or planting as
is deemed appropriate to make these facilities visually attractive.
      3.   Provide an adequate number of appropriately located parking spaces
for persons with disabilities.
   D.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Provide a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') from all highways and
the northwest tollway.
      2.   Provide a sufficient setback adjacent to the Cook County Forest
Preserve so that there is minimal adverse impact while allowing for reasonable
use as a pedestrian connection.
      3.   Provide an adequate buffer between new development and the northwest
and tri-state tollways.
   E.   Signage:
      1.   The Village Board may authorize special sign regulations,
notwithstanding the provisions of title 11, chapter 7 of this Code, for
permitted signage within a regional shopping area in excess of ten (10) acres
in size approved as a special use pursuant to subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 2011-9-14G, 9-14-2011)
      2.   Special sign regulations may be allowed by special use permit issued
by the Village Board after a public hearing thereon before the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
(Ord. 2011-9-14G, 9-14-2011; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   The special sign regulations shall establish aesthetically pleasing
and cohesive design standards and specifications for regional shopping area
signage, and shall regulate the area, number, height, location and illumination
of all directional, tenant identification and advertising signage. Such special
sign regulations shall utilize standards which are compatible with the
surroundings and with the probability of traffic congestion and accidents from
distracting attention or obstructing vision.
(Ord. 2011-9-14G, 9-14-2011)
12-6A-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height except as hereinafter
provided.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6A-6: PARKING:
Off street parking must be provided.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6A-7: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: A twenty foot (20') front yard is required except where the
frontage on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets is partly
in the D Commercial District and partly in a dwelling district, in which event,
the front yard regulations of the dwelling district shall apply.
   B.   Side Yards: The side yard regulations for dwellings are the same as
those in the C Multiple Dwelling District. In all other cases, a side yard is
not required except on the side of a lot abutting on a dwelling district, in
which case, there shall be a side yard of not less than ten percent (10%) of
the lot frontage or six feet (6'), whichever is less.
   C.   Rear Yard: The rear yard requirements for dwellings are the same as in
the C Multiple Dwelling District. In all other cases, a rear yard is not
required except on a lot abutting on a residence district, or where a residence
district adjoins the other side of an alley, in which case, there shall be a
rear yard of not less than fifteen feet (15') in depth.
   D.   Intensity Of Use: When a lot is improved with a single-family dwelling
or a two-family dwelling, or when living facilities are erected above other
uses, seventy five percent (75%) of the area may be built on.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
ARTICLE B: DD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
12-6B-1:   Application Of Provisions
12-6B-2:   Rezoning To DD District
12-6B-3:   Permitted Uses
12-6B-4:   Special Uses
12-6B-5:   Building Height
12-6B-6:   Parking
12-6B-7:   Setbacks
12-6B-8:   Intensity Of Use
12-6B-9:   Rules Of Construction
12-6B-10:   Conflicting, Repealing Provisions
12-6B-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The regulations set forth in this article apply to DD Commercial Districts.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6B-2: REZONING TO DD DISTRICT:
No rezoning to DD Commercial shall be granted except to tracts of land in
single ownership. Single ownership, for the purposes of this section, may
consist of ownership by more than one individual; however, each individual must
have an undivided interest in the whole tract. A division of a tract zoned DD
Commercial to other than single ownership, subsequent to its being zoned DD
Commercial, shall in no way affect or change the zoning, that is, the
individual parts will still be zoned DD Commercial.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6B-3: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in DD Commercial Districts:
Agricultural buildings and structures.
Animal hospitals and kennels.
Animal pounds.
Antique shops.
Apartment hotels.
Apartments, multiple dwellings.
Art and school supply stores.
Art galleries and shops and studios.
Art schools.
Auction rooms.
Automobile accessory stores.
Bakeries, including the sale of bakery products to restaurants, hotels, clubs,
and other establishments.
Banks and financial establishments.
Barbershops.
Battery, tire, radiator, muffler, seat cover, and motor vehicle accessory
service stations and facilities for wheel alignment and tire balancing.
Beauty parlors.
Bicycle sales, rental, and repair stores.
Blueprinting and photostating establishments.
Boat showrooms.
Book and stationery stores.
Bottling works.
Bus passenger stations and terminals.
Business machine sales and service.
Camera and photographic supply stores or sales stores.
Candy and ice cream stores.
Carpet and rug stores.
Cartage and express facilities.
Catering establishments.
China and glassware stores.
Clothes pressing establishments.
Clothing and costume rental stores.
Clothing stores.
Club, private - profit or nonprofit.
Coin and philatelic stores.
Contractor or construction offices, shops, and yards including building
concrete, electrical, excavating, heating, ventilating and air conditioning,
masonry, painting, plumbing, refrigeration and roofing; provided, however, that
not more than ten percent (10%) of the area shall be used for the enclosed
storage of materials and equipment.
Convention halls.
Crematories.
Currency exchanges.
Custom dressmaking.
Dairies for the processing, manufacture, distribution and delivery of dairy
products.
Department stores.
Dressmaking establishments.
Driving schools.
Drugstores.
Dry cleaning and laundry receiving stations.
Dry cleaning, laundry and dyeing establishments.
Dry goods stores.
Electric repair shops.
Electric substations.
Electrical and household appliance stores, including radio and television
sales.
Employment agencies.
Exhibition halls.
Exterminating shops.
Fire stations.
Florist shops and conservatories.
Food stores, grocery stores, meat markets, fish markets, bakeries and
delicatessens.
Frozen food lockers.
Frozen food stores, including locker rental in conjunction therewith.
Fruit or vegetable stores.
Fur storage vaults.
Furnace, heating, and sheet metal shops.
Furniture stores, including upholstering.
Furrier shops, including the incidental storage and conditioning of furs.
Garages for storage, repair, equipping and servicing of motor vehicles,
including body and chassis rebuilding and repair, painting, engine rebuilding,
sales of fuels and lubricants, sale of accessories, sale of tires and
batteries, washing facilities, facilities for chassis and gear lubrication,
wheel alignment and balancing and undercoating of motor vehicles.
Garden supply and seed stores.
Gas regulator stations.
Gift shops.
Glass sales and repair shops.
Golf courses, tennis and handball courts.
Greenhouses, retail and wholesale.
Haberdasheries.
Hardware stores.
Heliports, commercial and private.
Hobby shops for retail or items to be assembled or used away from the premises.
Hosiery shops.
Hospitals and sanitariums.
Ice cream or confection plants for the manufacture of ice cream or confections.
Ice cream stores, parlors or soda fountains.
Indoor and outdoor sales, display, storage, rental, or leasing for use off the
premises, maintenance, repair, and remodeling of all types of new and used
trailers, campers and like vehicles, including camper buses, camper trucks,
motor homes, motor offices, mobile homes, house trailers, mobile offices,
pickup campers, pickup coaches, caps, travel trailers, vacation trailers,
camper trailers and office trailers. In connection with the operation of any of
the aforesaid businesses, accessories, parts, equipment and merchandise may be
sold and stored, and a trailer, camper or like vehicle as aforesaid, or more
than one of them, may be used for an office or offices and for the storage and
sale of accessories, parts, equipment, and merchandise.
Indoor display for sale or rent, etc., of new or used motor vehicles,
merchandise, machinery, equipment and other items or chattels generally.
Interior decorating shops.
Jewelry stores.
Kindergarten and nursery schools.
Knit shops, including sale of yarns and finished products.
Laboratories, medical and dental.
Launderettes, automatic, self-service only, or hand laundries.
Laundries.
Lawn motor sales or repairs.
Leather goods and luggage stores.
Libraries.
Linen, towel, diaper and other supply services.
Liquor stores, package.
Live bait stores.
Locksmith shops.
Lodges.
Machine shops or woodworking shops.
Mail order houses.
Medical and dental clinics.
Meeting halls.
Millinery shops.
Monument sales and sales lots, including engraving of monuments.
Musical instrument sales and repair.
Newspaper distribution agencies for home delivery and retail trade.
Office supply stores.
Offices, business or professional or other types and kinds generally.
Optician sales.
Orthopedic and medical appliance stores, including the assembly and repair of
such articles.
Paint and wallpaper stores.
Philanthropic and eleemosynary institutions.
Phonograph record and sheet music stores.
Photo engraving establishments.
Photographic studios.
Physical culture and health services, gymnasiums, reducing salons, massage
salons and public baths.
Picture framing.
Plumbing and heating showrooms and shops; gas, steam or water fitting shops.
Police stations.
Post offices.
Printing plant.
Public parks or playgrounds.
Public utility service substations, electric, gas, telephone and water.
Publishing plant.
Radio and television service and repair shops.
Real estate and insurance offices.
Recording studio.
Religious institutions, churches, chapels, temples, and synagogues.
Research, experimental, process or product development laboratories and
facilities.
Rest homes and nursing homes.
Roofing or plastering shops.
Schools; commercial or trade.
Schools; general educational, colleges and universities.
Schools; music, dance, or business.
Sewing machine sales and service.
Sharpening or grinding shops.
Shoe, clothing and hat repair stores.
Shoe stores.
Shops for making draperies, slipcovers and other similar articles.
Snack or sandwich shops.
Sporting goods stores.
Stores or shops or buildings or plants for developing of film and pictures.
Tailor shops.
Taverns, including live entertainment and dancing.
Taxidermists.
Telephone booths and coin telephones (outdoor).
Telephone exchanges.
Telephone transmission equipment buildings and microwave.
Temporary real estate tract offices for the purpose of conducting the sale of
lots of the tract upon which such tract office is located.
Ticket agencies, amusement.
Tinsmith shops.
Tire repair shops.
Tobacco shops.
Tool shops.
Toy shops.
Travel bureau and transportation ticket offices.
Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors.
Upholstery shops.
Variety stores.
Vending machines, including ice and milk sales.
Watch repair shops.
Waterworks, reservoir, pumping station and filtration plants and other public
utilities.
Wearing apparel shops.
Welding shops.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6B-4: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Hotels, motels, restaurants, car washes, commercial parking lots,
theaters and gasoline filling stations and billboard-type advertising signs and
other pole-type advertising signs which advertise activities, products or
services that are not conducted on the premises on which the signs are located
when such advertising signs are located within six hundred sixty feet (660') of
the right-of-way for an “interstate highway” or a “primary highway”, as defined
in the Illinois Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971 (225 ILCS 440/1 et
seq.), may be allowed by special use permit issued by the Village Board of
Trustees after a public hearing thereon before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2008-1-9M, 1-9-2008; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   The special use provisions of this section shall only apply to new
hotel, motel, restaurant, car wash, commercial parking lot, theater and
gasoline filling station uses established after September 15, 1976, and shall
apply only to new advertising signs on which construction began after January
31, 2008.
   C.   Any hotel, motel, restaurant, car wash, commercial parking lot, theater
and gasoline filling station established under the provisions of this title
prior to September 15, 1976, shall be considered as a lawful conforming use for
all purposes under this title.
   D.   Any billboard-type advertising signs and other pole-type advertising
signs which advertise activities, products or services that are not conducted
on the premises on which the signs are located and which are located within six
hundred sixty feet (660') of the right-of-way for an “interstate highway” or a
“primary highway”, as defined in the Illinois Highway Advertising Control Act
of 1971 (225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.), which were erected or on which construction
began prior to February 1, 2008, shall be considered as lawful conforming uses
for all purposes under this title.
(Ord. 2008-1-9M, 1-9-2008)
12-6B-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
There shall be a fifty foot (50') limitation on the height of a building in a
DD Commercial District. (Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6B-6: PARKING:
Off street parking must be provided.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6B-7: SETBACKS:
For any DD Commercial District property fronting on any numbered State or
Federal highway, there shall be a twenty foot (20') setback from said roads for
buildings only. The term “buildings”, for the purpose of this section, shall
mean buildings which are affixed into the land.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6B-8: INTENSITY OF USE:
When a lot is improved, there shall be a seventy five percent (75%) limitation
on intensity of use in DD Commercial Districts.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6B-9: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   The use of the word “and” in this article shall in no way be construed
that it be mandatory that one use be conducted with another use or one aspect
of a use be conducted with another aspect of the use.
   B.   The use of the word “or” in this article shall in no way be construed
as making the conducting of any use alternative to the conducting of any other
use or the conducting of any aspect of a particular use an alternative to the
conducting of any other aspect of the particular use.
   C.   When a particular use in this article is set forth with several of its
aspects, it shall not be construed to mean that it is mandatory that more than
one aspect of the particular use be conducted.
   D.   The word “other”, when used in section 12-6B-3 of this article and in
this section, unless it is used in conjunction with the word “similar”, shall
not be construed so as to prohibit the dissimilar.
   E.   The word “including”, when used in this article preceding an expressly
set forth list of uses or list of aspects of uses or list of aspects of a
particular use, shall not be construed as prohibiting other than those
expressly set forth uses or aspects of uses or aspects of a particular use.
   F.   When a use or aspect of a use is set forth in the plural, the
conducting of the use or aspect of the use in the singular shall not be
prohibited. Likewise, the listing of uses or aspects of uses in sequence does
not prohibit their being conducted in the singular. When a use or aspect of a
use is set forth in the singular, the conducting of the use or aspect of the
use in the plural shall not be prohibited.
   G.   Repetition or overlap among the uses or aspects of uses set forth in
this article shall not be construed as causing a use or aspect of a use to
conflict with, limit or restrict any other use or any other aspect of a use.
   H.   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the conducting
of more than one related or unrelated use or aspect of a use in one building or
establishment or on one premises.
   I.   When used in this article, the word “shall” is not to be construed as
the equivalent of the word “may”, that is, the word “shall” is mandatory and
not directory.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-6B-10: CONFLICTING, REPEALING PROVISIONS:
On account of the wide scope of this article and its uses, both permitted and
special, and on account of the other provisions, regulations and rules of this
article, and so as to prevent the wide scope of this article and its uses, both
permitted and special, from being inadvertently diminished or its uses, both
permitted and special, provisions, regulations and rules from being
inadvertently changed, limited, restricted, prohibited or repealed, and to
prevent the inadvertent repealing of this article or any part thereof, the
following rule shall apply to this article: Any and all repealing provisions of
any and all ordinances and any and all zoning or repealing ordinances and any
and all provisions, rules or regulations, or amendments to zoning or repealing
ordinances of the Village, including an ordinance known as “Zoning Regulations
of the Village of Rosemont” to which this article is an amendment, whether they
be now existing or are enacted in the future, which conflict with or repeal
this article in any way or in any way repeal, limit, restrict or prohibit any
of the uses, either special or permitted, or regulations or rules or provisions
of this article, shall not, only insofar as they conflict with or repeal this
article or repeal, limit, restrict or prohibit any of the uses, either special
or permitted, or regulations or rules or provisions of this article, apply to
or affect this article, its regulations, rules, provisions, or uses, either
special or permitted, in any way, unless they specifically include this article
within their scope, and this specific inclusion shall only be accomplished by
their expressly setting forth the name of this article, i.e., “DD Commercial
District”. The use of the word “zoning districts” or any other word or term or
words or terms or combinations thereof, without expressly using the words "DD
Commercial Districts", shall be insufficient to accomplish the inclusion.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 7: E SERVICE AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
12-7-1:   Regulations Generally
12-7-2:   Definitions
12-7-3:   Permitted Uses
12-7-3-1:   Conditions Of Use
12-7-3-2:   Permitted Uses Enumerated
12-7-4:   Special Uses
12-7-5:   Yard Areas
12-7-6:   Performance Standards
12-7-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the district regulations in the E Service
and Light Industrial Districts.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness of sound). Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in “decibels”.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS (For The Purpose Of Determining Floor Area Ratio): The floor
area of a building or buildings shall be the sum of the gross horizontal areas
of the several floors of such building or buildings measured from the exterior
faces of exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls separating two
(2) buildings. In particular, GROSS FLOOR AREA shall include:
   A.   Basement space if at least one-half (1/2) of the basement story height
is above the established curb or ground level.
   B.   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor.
   C.   Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural headroom
exceeds seven and one-half feet (7-1/2'); except equipment, open or enclosed,
located on the roof, i.e., bulkheads, water tanks, and cooling towers.
   D.   Attic floor space where the structural headroom exceeds seven and one-
half feet (7-1/2').
   E.   Interior balconies and mezzanines.
   F.   Enclosed porches, but not terraces and breezeways.
   G.   Accessory buildings.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS (For Determining Requirements For Off Street Parking And Off
Street Loading): The floor area shall be the sum of the gross horizontal areas
of the several floors of the building, or portion thereof, devoted to such use,
including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space, such
as counters, racks, or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to
retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods or to business
or professional offices. However, floor area for purpose of measurement for off
street parking spaces shall not include floor area devoted primarily to storage
purposes (except as otherwise noted herein); floor area devoted to off street
parking or loading facilities including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space,
or basement floor area other than area devoted to retailing activities, the
production or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The total floor area of the building or buildings on
the zoning lot divided by the area of such zoning lot, or in the case of a
planned development, by the net site area.
FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave, measuring the
pitch of the resulting sound.
NOXIOUS MATTER: Material which is capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the
psychological, social, or economic well- being of human beings.
OCTAVE BAND: A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves in
order to classify sound according to pitch.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals (American Standard for Sound Level Meters, ASA No. 224 3-1944).
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or sold at atmospheric pressure
and temperature.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire, explosive hazards or glare or heat generated
by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
RINGELMANN CHART: A chart which is described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines
Information Circular 6888, and on which are illustrated graduated shades of
grey for use in estimating the light-obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann Chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density of smoke emission.
SMOKE UNITS: The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in Ringelmann
numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this chart,
Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every minute during the period
of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time in minutes during
which it is observed; and the various products are added together to give the
total number of SMOKE UNITS observed during the total period under observation.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of intensity of sound.
TOXIC MATERIALS: A substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which, by reason of an
inherent deleterious property, tends to destroy life or impair health.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-7-3: PERMITTED USES:
12-7-3-1: CONDITIONS OF USE:
All permitted uses are subject to the following conditions.
   A.   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, repair, testing or
storage of goods, materials or products shall conform with the performance
standards set forth in this chapter.
   B.   All business, production, servicing and processing shall take place
within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. Within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of a residence district, all storage shall be in
completely enclosed buildings or structures, and storage located elsewhere in
this district may be open to the sky but shall be enclosed by solid walls or
fences (including solid doors or gates thereto) at least eight feet (8') high,
but in no case lower in height than the enclosed storage and suitably
landscaped. However, open off street loading facilities and open off street
parking of motor vehicles under one and one-half (1-1/2) tons’ capacity may be
unenclosed throughout the district, except for such screening of parking and
loading facilities as may be required under the provisions of the authorizing
ordinance.
   C.   Uses established on the effective date hereof and by its provisions are
rendered nonconforming shall be permitted to continue, subject to the
regulations of this title.
   D.   Uses established after the effective date hereof shall conform fully to
the performance standards set forth in this chapter for the district.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-7-3-2: PERMITTED USES ENUMERATED:
The following uses are permitted:
Miscellaneous uses, as follows:
Accessory uses.
Off street parking and loading.
Radio and television towers.
Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed the
duration of such construction.
Production, processing, packaging, cleaning, testing, or repair, limited to the
following uses and products:
Advertising displays.
Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles.
Art needle work and hand weaving.
Automobile painting, upholstering, repairing, reconditioning and body and
fender repairing, when done within the confines of a structure.
Awnings, venetian blinds.
Bakeries.
Beverages, nonalcoholic.
Books, hand binding and tooling.
Bottling works.
Brushes and brooms.
Cameras and other photographic equipment and supplies.
Canning and preserving.
Canvas and canvas products.
Carpet and rug cleaning.
Chemicals, except the manufacture thereof.
Cleaning and dyeing establishments.
Cleaners.
Clothing.
Cosmetics and toiletries.
Creameries and dairies.
Dentures.
Drugs.
Electrical appliances, such as lighting fixtures, irons, fans, toasters, and
electric toys.
Electrical equipment assembly, such as home radio and television receivers and
home movie equipment, but not including electrical machinery.
Electrical supplies, manufacturing and assembly of, such as wire and cable
assembly, switches, lamps, insulation and dry cell batteries.
Food products, processing and combining of (except meat and fish) - baking,
boiling, canning, cooking, dehydrating, freezing, frying, grinding, mixing and
pressing.
Fur goods, not including tanning and dyeing.
Glass products from previously manufactured glass.
Hair, felt and feather products (except washing, curling, and dyeing).
Hat bodies of fur and wool felt.
Hosiery.
Ice, dry and natural.
Ink mixing and packaging and inked ribbons.
Insecticides.
Jewelry.
Laboratories - medical, dental, research, experimental and testing, provided
there is no danger from fire or explosion, nor offensive noise, vibration,
smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare, or other objectionable influences.
Laundries.
Leather products, including shoes and machine belting.
Luggage.
Machine shops for tool, die, and pattern making.
Metal finishing, plating, grinding, sharpening, polishing, cleaning,
rustproofing, and heat treatment.
Metal stamping and extrusion of small products such as costume jewelry, pins
and needles, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons and kitchen utensils.
Musical instruments.
Orthopedic and medical appliances, such as artificial limbs, braces, supports
and stretchers.
Paper products, small, such as envelopes and stationery, bags, boxes, tubes and
wallpaper.
Perfumes and cosmetics.
Pharmaceutical products, compounding and packaging only.
Plastic products, but not including the processing of the raw materials.
Precision instruments, such as optical, medical, and drafting.
Printing and newspaper publishing, including engraving and photo-engraving.
Products from finished materials - plastic, bone, cork, feathers, felt, fibre,
fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, precious and semiprecious stones,
rubber, shell or yarn.
Public utility electric substations and distribution centers, gas regulation
centers and underground gas holder stations.
Repair of household or office machinery or equipment.
Rubber products, small, and synthetic treated fabrics, (excluding all rubber
and synthetic processing) such as washers, gloves, footwear, bathing caps and
atomizers.
Silverware, plate and sterling.
Soap and detergents, packaging only.
Soldering and welding.
Sporting and athletic equipment, such as balls, baskets, cues, gloves, bats,
racquets, and rods.
Statuary, mannequins, figurines, and religious and church art goods, excluding
foundry operations.
Storage of household goods.
Textiles - spinning, weaving, manufacturing, dyeing, printing, knit goods,
yarn, thread and cordage, but not including textile bleaching.
Tobacco curing and manufacturing and tobacco products.
Tool and die shops.
Tools and hardware, such as bolts, nuts and screws, doorknobs, drills, hand
tools and cutlery, hinges, house hardware, locks, nonferrous metal casting, and
plumbing appliances.
Toys.
Umbrellas.
Vehicles, children's, such as bicycles, scooters, wagons, and baby carriages.
Watches.
Any other manufacturing establishment that can be operated in compliance with
the performance standards without creating objectionable noise, odor, dust,
smoke, gas, fumes or vapor; and that is a use compatible with the use and
occupancy of adjoining properties.
Public and community service uses, as follows:
Bus terminals, bus garages, bus lots, street railway terminals, or streetcar
houses.
Electric substations.
Fire stations.
Municipal or privately owned recreation buildings or community centers.
Parks and recreation areas.
Police stations.
Telephone exchanges.
Water filtration plants.
Water pumping stations.
Water reservoirs.
Residential uses, as follows:
Dwelling units for watchmen and their families when located on the premises
where they are employed in such capacity.
Retail and services uses, as follows:
Animal pounds and shelters.
Automobile laundries.
Automobile service stations, where the retail sale of gasoline and oil for
motor vehicles, including minor services customarily incidental thereto, may be
conducted out of doors. Lubrication and washing facilities, including auto
laundries, are permitted only if in a completely enclosed building.
Banks and financial institutions.
Battery and tire service stations.
Beverages, nonalcoholic - bottling and distributing.
Currency exchanges.
Drugstores.
Garages and parking lots, other than accessory.
Greenhouses.
Ice sales, linen, towel, diaper, and other similar supply services.
Offices, business or professional, or other types and kinds generally.
Restaurants, including the sale of liquor in conjunction therewith.
Taverns.
Trade schools.
Wholesaling and warehousing: cartage, hauling, distribution and express
facilities (but not including motor freight terminals).
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-7-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses may be allowed by special use permit by the Corporate
Authorities after a public hearing thereon by the Zoning Board of Appeals:
Any use which may be allowed as a special use in the D Commercial District.
Any manufacturing or assembly of goods which uses “hazardous substances” or
generates “hazardous wastes” as those terms are defined by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Act or the Illinois Environmental Protection Act (415
ILCS 5/1 et seq.) or the regulations promulgated thereto.
Airport or aircraft landing fields.
Billboard-type advertising signs and other pole-type advertising signs which
advertise activities, products or services that are not conducted on the
premises on which the sign is located when such advertising signs are located
within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the right-of-way for an “interstate
highway” or a “primary highway”, as defined in the Illinois Highway Advertising
Control Act of 1971 (225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.) if construction on such sign began
on or after January 31, 2008. Any such advertising sign which was erected or on
which construction began prior to February 1, 2008, shall be considered as a
lawful conforming use for all purposes under this title.
Medical cannabis dispensaries established and operated in accordance with the
requirements of the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act
(410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended; provided, that no
medical cannabis dispensary may be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the property line of any public recreation facility with outdoor playing
fields.
Motor freight terminals.
Planned developments, industrial.
Sanitary landfill.
Sewerage treatment plants.
Stadiums, auditoriums and arenas.
Theaters, outdoor drive-in.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. Ord. 2008-1-9M, 1-9-2008; Ord. 2014-6-
11C, 6-11-2014)
12-7-5: YARD AREAS:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building:
   A.   Front Yard: On every zoning lot, a front yard of not less than fifteen
feet (15') in depth shall be provided. However, where lots within the same
block and comprising forty percent (40%) of the frontage on the same street as
already developed on the effective date hereof with front yards with an average
depth of less than fifteen feet (15'), then such average depth shall be the
required front yard depth for the frontage in the block.
   B.   Side Yards: On every zoning lot, a side yard of not less than five feet
(5') shall be provided along each side lot line.
   C.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: The maximum floor area ratio shall not exceed
1.0.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-7-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Any use established hereinafter in any E Service and Light Industrial District
shall be so operated as to comply with the performance standards set forth as
follows:
   A.   Noise:
      1.   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and
associated octave band filter manufactured according to standards prescribed by
the American Standards Association.
      2.   Measurements shall be made using the flat network of the sound level
meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the performance standards
hereinafter prescribed; provided, that such noises shall be capable of being
accurately measured with such equipment. Noises capable of being so measured,
for the purpose of this title, shall be those noises which cause rapid
fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more
than plus or minus two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of being so measured,
such as those of an irregular and intermittent nature, shall be controlled so
as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      3.   At no point, either on the boundary of a residence district or a
business district or at one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the nearest
property line of a plant or operation, whichever distance is greater, shall the
sound pressure level of an individual operation or plant (other than the
operations of motor vehicles and other transportation facilities) exceed the
decibel levels at the designated octave bands shown below for the districts
indicated.
                       Maximum Permitted Sound     Maximum Permitted Sound
                       Level In Decibels Along     Level In Decibels Along
Octave Band Cycles Per Residence District          Business District Boundaries
Second                 Boundaries Or 125 Feet From Or 125 Feet From Plant Or
                       Plant Or Operation Property Operation Property Line
                       Line
                       Maximum Permitted Sound     Maximum Permitted Sound
                       Level In Decibels Along     Level In Decibels Along
Octave Band Cycles Per Residence District          Business District Boundaries
Second                 Boundaries Or 125 Feet From Or 125 Feet From Plant Or
                       Plant Or Operation Property Operation Property Line
                       Line
0 to 75                67                          73
75 to 150              62                          68
150 to 300             58                          64
300 to 600             54                          60
600 to 1,200           49                          55
1,200 to 2,400         45                          51
2,400 to 4,800         41                          47
above 4,800            37                          43
 
   B.   Smoke And Particulate Matter:
      1.   No stack shall emit more than ten (10) smoke units during any one
hour, nor shall smoke of a density in excess of Ringelmann No. 2 be emitted;
provided, that during a single one hour period in each twenty four (24) hour
day, each stack may emit up to twenty (20) smoke units when blowing soot or
cleaning fires, and during such cleaning of fires, smoke of a density of
Ringelmann No. 3 may be emitted, but not for longer than four (4) minutes each
period.
      2.   No emission of smoke or particulate matter shall exceed a density of
Ringelmann No. 3, except for a plume consisting entirely of condensed steam.
For the purposes of grading the density of emissions, the Ringelmann Chart,
published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines, shall be employed.
      3.   The rate of emission of particulate matter from all sources within
the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a net figure of one pound per acre
of lot area during any one hour.
      4.   Dust and other forms of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards, roads, and so forth, within lot boundaries
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling or other
acceptable means. The emission of particulate matter from such sources shall
conform with the requirements of subsection B3 of this section.
      5.   In addition to the performance standards specified herein, the
emission of smoke or particulate matter in such manner or quantity as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   C.   Odorous Matter: The emission of odorous matter from any property in
such concentrations as to be readily detectable at any point along the
boundaries of such property or in such concentrations as to create a public
nuisance or hazard beyond such boundaries is prohibited.
   D.   Vibration: Any process or equipment which produces intense earth-
shaking vibrations, such as are created by heavy drop forges or heavy hydraulic
surges, shall be set back at least five hundred feet (500') from the property
boundaries on all sides, except for a property line adjoining an F Industrial
District, where such setback shall not be mandatory. However, in no case shall
such vibrations be allowed to create a public nuisance or hazard beyond the
property boundaries.
   E.   Toxic Or Noxious Matter: No use on any property shall discharge across
the boundaries of the property toxic or noxious matter in such concentration as
to be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or
welfare, or cause injury or damage to other property or business.
   F.   Glare Or Heat: Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building and effectively screened in
such a manner as not to create a public nuisance or hazard along property
boundaries.
   G.   Fire And Explosive Hazards: Fire and explosive hazards shall be
controlled as follows:
      1.   Activities involving the storage or manufacture of materials or
products which decompose by detonation are not permitted in the E District.
      2.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials ranging from
incombustible to moderate burning, as determined by the Director of Building
and Code Enforcement, is permitted.
      3.   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from free or active burning to intense burning, as determined by the
Director of Building and Code Enforcement, is permitted under the following
conditions:
         a.   All storage, utilization or manufacture of such materials or
products shall be within completely enclosed buildings or structures having
incombustible exterior walls; and
         b.   All such buildings or structures shall be set back at least forty
feet (40') from property boundaries or, in lieu thereof, shall be protected
throughout by an automatic sprinkler system complying with standards for
installation prescribed by the National Fire Protection Association.
      4.   Materials or products which produce flammable or explosive vapors or
gases under ordinary weather temperatures shall not be permitted in this
district, with the exception of the following, which are permitted:
         a.   Materials required for emergency or standby equipment;
         b.   Materials used in secondary processes which are auxiliary to a
principal operation, such as paint spraying of finished products; and
         c.   Flammable liquids and oils stored, sold, and used in conjunction
with the operation of an automobile service station and customarily required or
used in such operation.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 8: AU ADULT USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
Section
12-8-1:   Purpose And Intent
12-8-2:   Procedure For And Significance Of Designation
12-8-3:   Permit Required; Special Uses Allowed
12-8-4:   Application For Permit
12-8-5:   Minimum Standards For Approval
12-8-6:   Operation Standards
12-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the AU Adult Use Overlay District is to provide reasonable and
uniform regulations which allow for the establishment of adult uses, as defined
in section 12-2-2 of this title, while preventing the concentration of adult
uses. It is the intent of this chapter that these regulations be utilized to
prevent problems of blight and deterioration, criminal activity and deleterious
or adverse effects on other business activities which accompany and may be
brought about by the location of adult uses. The overlay district provides for
location of such uses and an approval process which allows the consideration of
each proposed use at its proposed location in a manner complimentary with the
land uses of the adjacent and nearby properties.
(Ord. 98-4-8M, 4-8-1998)
12-8-2: PROCEDURE FOR AND SIGNIFICANCE OF DESIGNATION:
   A.   Procedure: The Village Board of Trustees may, upon the recommendation
of the Zoning Board of Appeals and in accordance with the procedures for
amending the Zoning Map, designate by ordinance any zoning lot within an E
Service and Light Industrial Zoning District as also being within an AU Adult
Use Overlay District.
   B.   Significance: The regulations contained in this chapter applicable to
the AU Adult Use Overlay District shall supplement the regulations applicable
to the E Service and Light Industrial Zoning District underlying zoning
district with regard to the uses listed in subsection 12-8-3B of this chapter.
Any ordinance which applies to the underlying district shall continue to be in
full force unless specifically modified herein, or modified by an ordinance
designating an area as being within an AU Adult Use Overlay District.
(Ord. 98-4-8M, 4-8-1998)
12-8-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; SPECIAL USES ALLOWED:
   A.   No adult use shall be operated within the Village unless such use is
located within an AU Adult Use Overlay District and a special use permit has
been issued allowing the operation of the adult use, following a public hearing
as provided in chapter 3, article B of this title.
   B.   The following uses shall be allowed as a special use on parcels that
are located within an AU Adult Use Overlay District:
Adult book stores.
Adult entertainment cabarets.
Adult motion picture theaters.
(Ord. 98-4-8M, 4-8-1998)
12-8-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
An application for a proposed adult use shall be filed with the Director of
Building and Code Enforcement and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   B.   A complete disclosure of investors in the proposed adult use.
   C.   A recent plat of survey (1 year or less) and legal description prepared
by a registered land surveyor of Illinois showing all the improvements thereon
as exist as of the date of the application.
   D.   A typewritten list of all of the property owners within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the proposed adult use.
   E.   The zoning districts of the property and all of the other properties
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the proposed adult use.
   F.   Descriptions of the existing use of the property and of the specific
nature of the proposed adult use.
   G.   A site plan showing the location of all structures, parking and loading
areas, open spaces, landscaping, yards, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, and traffic accesses and circulation ways.
   H.   Architectural renderings or sketches illustrating the appearance of the
proposed use.
   I.   A plan depicting how the exterior areas of the lot or parcel including,
but not limited to, all parking areas, on which the adult use is to be located
will be illuminated. The plan shall show the location of each fixture that will
be used to illuminate the exterior area and specify in candlepower the amount
of illumination the fixture will provide.
   J.   A plot plan, to an easily measurable scale, indicating the structure in
which the adult use is to be conducted and identifying and locating all land
uses and property lines within a radius of one thousand feet (1,000') of the
proposed adult use.
(Ord. 98-4-8M, 4-8-1998)
12-8-5: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL:
No special use permit to allow an adult use shall be issued unless, in addition
to the requirements applicable under chapter 3, article B of this title, the
following standards are met and the following findings are made:
   A.   No adult use shall be allowed within one thousand feet (1,000') from
any residentially zoned lot, any existing adult use, any existing school,
childcare facility, place of worship, park, play lot, public recreation
facility, or Municipally owned theater or sports, entertainment or convention
arena. Such distances shall be measured along a straight line without regard to
intervening structures or uses from the nearest property line of the AU lot to
the nearest property line of the residentially zoned lot or pre-existing use;
   B.   Any lot or parcel containing an adult use shall be adjacent to or have
a common lot line with an improved public street;
   C.   Off street parking is provided in adequate number as required by
subsection J of this section, and in a manner and location that will not impair
drainage, increase stormwater runoff, or generate traffic congestion and safety
hazards to the public;
   D.   The exterior areas of the lot or parcel on which the adult use is
located including, but not limited to, adjacent parking areas, shall be
illuminated to not less than four (4) candlepower;
   E.   The adult use shall have no negative impact upon existing parking
conditions on adjacent streets;
   F.   The adult use shall not increase traffic congestion or impair safety
for pedestrians and vehicular traffic on Village streets;
   G.   Adequate measures have been taken or will be taken to minimize noise
impacts on adjacent and nearby properties;
   H.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to minimize the impact of
light and glare on adjacent and nearby properties with recognition of
increasingly stringent standards to be applied at more sensitive times of day
including, but not limited to, night and early morning hours;
   I.   The adult use shall not be conducted in any manner that permits the
observation from any point not on the lot on which the adult use is located of
any material depicting, describing or relating to specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities including, but not limited to, any display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening;
   J.   There will be sufficient off street parking available for customers and
employees of the adult use to meet one hundred percent (100%) of peak demand
independent of the off street parking;
   K.   All entrances to the adult use shall be clearly and legibly posted by a
notice indicating that minors are prohibited from entering the premises; and
   L.   There shall be no outdoor loudspeakers or other outdoor sound equipment
advertising or directing attention to the adult use.
(Ord. 98-4-8M, 4-8-1998)
12-8-6: OPERATION STANDARDS:
   A.   Any adult use for which a special use permit is issued shall, as a
condition of such special use permit, be operated so that there is compliance
at all times with the standards set forth in section
12-8-5 of this chapter.
   B.   There shall not be any alcoholic beverages sold, served or consumed on
the premises of an adult use for which a special use permit is issued.
(Ord. 98-4-8M, 4-8-1998)
CHAPTER 9: F INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
12-9-1:   Regulations Generally
12-9-2:   Permitted Uses
12-9-3:   Special Uses
12-9-4:   Building Height
12-9-5:   Parking
12-9-6:   Area Regulations
12-9-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the district regulations in the F
Industrial Districts.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Any use permitted in the E Service and Light Industrial Districts.
Blacksmith shop.
Bottling works.
Coal yards.
Contractor office and yard.
Dyeing and cleaning establishments.
Ice cream and confectionery plant.
Industrial and manufacturing plants where the scale of operations and the
process of manufacturing or treatment of material is such that the amount of
dust, odor, gas, smoke or noise resulting therefrom will not result in a
lowering of taxable values of property, and otherwise will not be objectionable
to surrounding residence districts, and where the operations are conducted in
one or more buildings and not more than ten percent (10%) of the lot or tract
is used for the open storage of products, material or equipment.
Junkyard, but only when all materials stored, treated or processed upon the lot
are completely enclosed within a building.
Laundry.
Lumberyard or building materials yard.
Printing plant.
Public utility substations and facilities.
Warehouse and storage plants.
Wholesale establishments.
Wholesale storage of oil, gasoline, or other petroleum products, but only after
the location and protective measures have been approved by the Chief of Public
Safety.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-9-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following use may be allowed by special use permit authorized by the
Corporate Authorities of the Village after a public hearing thereon by the
Zoning Board of Appeals:
Billboard-type advertising signs and other pole-type advertising signs which
advertise activities, products or services that are not conducted on the
premises on which the sign is located when such advertising signs are located
within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the right-of-way for an “interstate
highway” or a “primary highway” as defined in the Illinois Highway Advertising
Control Act of 1971 (225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2008-1-9M, 1-9-2008; amd. 2019 Code)
12-9-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed three (3) stories nor shall it exceed fifty feet (50')
in height unless it is set back one foot (1') from all required yard lines for
each foot of additional height above forty five feet (45').
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-9-5: PARKING:
   A.   Parking space shall be provided on the lot or in a building on the lot
adequate to accommodate the cars of the employees of any of the uses permitted
in this district, as well as the trucks and other vehicles owned or in the
custody of the establishment.
   B.   Any building hereafter erected or converted for any of the commercial
or industrial uses permitted in this district shall provide a minimum of one
space, with minimum dimensions of ten feet by twenty five feet (10' x 25'), for
the loading or unloading of trucks within the building or upon the lot of the
building.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-9-6: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: Where all the frontage on one side of the street between
two (2) intersecting streets is located in the F Industrial District, a fifteen
foot (15') yard shall be required. Where the frontage on one side of the street
between two (2) intersecting streets is located partly in the F Industrial
District and a dwelling or any commercial district, the front yard requirements
of the dwelling or commercial district shall apply to the F Industrial
District.
   B.   Side Yard: A side yard is not required except on the side of a lot
abutting on a dwelling district, in which case, there shall be a side yard of
not less than ten percent (10%) of the lot frontage or six feet (6'), whichever
is less.
   C.   Rear Yard: A rear yard is not required except on a lot abutting on a
dwelling district, in which case, there shall be a rear yard of not less than
twenty five feet (25') in depth.
   D.   Intensity Of Use: Seventy five percent (75%) of the lot area may be
improved.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 10: G GOVERNMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
Section
12-10-1:   Regulations Generally
12-10-2:   Use Restriction
12-10-3:   Permitted Uses
12-10-4:   Special Uses
12-10-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The regulations set forth in this chapter or set forth elsewhere in this title
and referred to in this chapter, are the district regulations for the G
Government and Institutional District.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-10-2: USE RESTRICTIONS:
No use shall be allowed in a G Government and Institutional District unless the
use is owned or operated by a unit of government or a religious, not-for-
profit, or eleemosynary corporation or association.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-10-3: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the G Government and Institutional
District:
Elementary schools.
Fire stations.
Indoor recreational facilities owned or operated by a governmental body.
Maintenance and storage facilities for Municipally owned equipment and
vehicles.
Municipally owned exposition and trade show facilities.
Municipally owned housing for senior citizens.
Municipally owned indoor stadiums and arenas.
Municipally owned parking garages and parking lots.
Parks.
Police stations.
Publicly owned mass transit facilities.
Publicly owned office buildings where eighty percent (80%) or more of the floor
area within the office building is occupied by a governmental body.
Water towers, water pumping facilities, lift stations and other facilities used
in connection with a government owned and operated water or sewer utility.
Any use not listed above which is owned or operated by the Village.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-10-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses shall be permitted as a special use within the G Government
and Institutional District; provided, that a special use permit is issued in
accordance with the requirements of chapter 3, article B of this title:
Churches.
Colleges, universities, trade schools and other post secondary educational
facilities.
Garbage transfer stations.
Publicly owned hospitals or clinics.
Secondary schools.
Any other use that is owned and operated by a unit of government.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 11: NONCONFORMITIES
Section
12-11-1:   Discontinuance Of Use
12-11-2:   Continuation Of Nonconforming Use
12-11-3:   Restoration Of Damaged Building
12-11-4:   Extension Or Enlargement Of Use
12-11-5:   Prohibited Uses
12-11-6:   Nonconforming Commercial Or Industrial Buildings Within Dwelling
District
12-11-1: DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
   A.   The lawful use of land for storage purposes and for advertising signs
and billboards which does not conform to the provisions of this title shall be
discontinued within two (2) years from the effective date hereof, and the same
uses of land which became nonconforming by reason of a subsequent change of
this title shall also be discontinued within two (2) years from the effective
date of the change.
   B.   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of six (6) months,
the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-11-2: CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USE:
The lawful use of a building existing at the effective date of the original
zoning ordinance may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provisions hereof. If no structural alterations are made, the nonconforming use
of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more
restricted classification. This section shall also apply to nonconforming uses
in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has
been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall
not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-11-3: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDING:
No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of nature or the
public enemy to the extent of more than sixty percent (60%) of its value, shall
be restored except in conformity with the regulations in this title.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-11-4: EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF USE:
A nonconforming use shall not be extended or enlarged.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-11-5: PROHIBITED USES:
A nonconforming structure that was erected, converted, or structurally altered
in violation of the provisions of the ordinance which this title amends shall
not be validated by the adoption of this title, and such violation or any
violation of this title may be ordered removed or corrected by the proper
officials at any time.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-11-6: NONCONFORMING COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS WITHIN DWELLING
DISTRICT:
Except as hereinafter provided, all nonconforming commercial or industrial
buildings located within any dwelling district shall be removed or converted,
and the building thereafter devoted to a use permitted in the district, in
accordance with the following schedule:
   A.   In the case of buildings erected before January 1, 1956, on or before
January 1, 1981.
   B.   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1956, and January
1, 1959, on or before January 1, 1989.
   C.   In the case of buildings erected since January 1, 1959, within forty
(40) years from the date of the issuance of a building permit therefor, but in
all cases on or before January 1, 1999.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 12: COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN
Section
12-12-1:   Procedure
12-12-1: PROCEDURE:
The owner or owners of any tract of land comprising an area of not less than
ten (10) acres may submit to the Village President and the Board of Trustees a
plan for the use and development of all of the tract of land for residential or
allied purposes. The development plan shall be referred to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for study and report and for public hearing. If the board approves the
plan, it shall then be submitted to the Village President and the Board of
Trustees for consideration and action. The approval and recommendations of the
board shall be accompanied by a report stating the reasons for approval of the
application and specific evidence and facts showing that the proposed community
unit plan meets with the following conditions:
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993; amd. 2019 Code)
   A.   That the property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected.
   B.   That the plan is consistent with the intent and purposes of this title
to promote public health, safety, morals, and general welfare.
   C.   That the buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings, two-
family dwellings or multiple dwellings, and the usual accessory uses such as
private or storage garages, storage space, and community activities, including
places of worship.
   D.   That the buildings do not exceed the height regulations of the district
in which the development is located.
   E.   That the average lot area per family contained in the site, exclusive
of the area occupied by streets, will not be less than the lot area per family
required in the district in which the development is located.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
CHAPTER 13: SUPPLEMENTARY ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
12-13-1:   Supplementary Provisions
12-13-2:   Public, Semipublic Or Public Service Buildings, Hospitals,
Institutions Or Schools
12-13-3:   More Than One Building Per Lot
12-13-4:   No Side Yards Required
12-13-5:   Accessory Buildings
12-13-6:   Height Limits
12-13-7:   Lots Abutting Alleys
12-13-8:   Projections Into Yards
12-13-9:   Buildings Used For Construction
12-13-10:   Existing Railroads And Utilities
12-13-11:   Number Of Employees Restricted In Certain Districts
12-13-1: SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS:
The district regulations set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this title.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-2: PUBLIC, SEMIPUBLIC OR PUBLIC SERVICE BUILDINGS, HOSPITALS,
INSTITUTIONS OR SCHOOLS:
   A.   Building Height: Public, semipublic or public service buildings,
hospitals, institutions or schools, when permitted in a district, may be
erected to a height not exceeding seventy five feet (75'), subject to Federal
Aeronautics Administration approval of such height.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings for such uses may be built in
a required rear yard to a height not to exceed fifty feet (50').
   C.   Determination Of Front Yard: Where the use is located on a lot having a
double frontage or a lot at the intersection of two (2) or more streets, the
owner shall designate one side as the principal front of the building and that
side only shall be required to meet the front yard requirements.
   D.   Parking: Off street parking for the uses may be provided in required
front, side or rear yards.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-3: MORE THAN ONE BUILDING PER LOT:
   A.   More than one main building may be located upon a lot or tract, but
only when such buildings conform to all open space requirements around the lot
for the district in which the lot or tract is located.
   B.   For the purpose of the side yard regulations, a two-family dwelling, a
group of row houses, or a multiple dwelling shall be considered as one building
occupying one lot.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-4: NO SIDE YARDS REQUIRED:
No side yards are required where dwelling units are erected above commercial
and industrial structures.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-5: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory
building shall be used for dwelling purposes other than by domestic servants
employed entirely on the premises.
   B.   Accessory buildings may be built in a required rear yard, but such
buildings may not be less than eighteen inches (18') of any side or rear yard
line, nor shall any such accessory building occupy more than forty percent
(40%) of the required rear yard or exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-6: HEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   Chimneys, Cooling Towers, Etc.: Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts,
tanks, water towers, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a
height in accordance with FAA and any existing or hereafter adopted ordinance
of the Village.
   B.   Storage Buildings: Buildings that are to be used for storage purposes
may only exceed the maximum number of stories that are permitted in the
district in which they are located, but each building shall not exceed the
number of feet of building height permitted in such districts.
   C.   Fences:
      1.   Fences constructed of solid wood surface may be erected to a height
not exceeding five feet (5') along the boundaries of a lot; except, that no
such fence shall be erected within thirty feet (30') of a street intersection.
      2.   Wire fences and other fences in which the openings between the
materials of which the fence is constructed represent more than seventy percent
(70%) of the total fence area may be erected to a height of eight feet (8'),
except within thirty feet (30') of a street intersection.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-7: LOTS ABUTTING ALLEYS:
Whenever a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half (1/2) of the width of the alley
may be considered as a portion to the required rear yard.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-8: PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS:
   A.   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed,
except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except for the ordinary
projection of sills, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental features projecting
not to exceed twelve inches (12").
   B.   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and
balconies opening upon fire towers, and the ordinary projections of chimneys
and flues into the rear yard may be permitted by the Director of Building and
Code Enforcement of the Village, or his/her successor or designee, for a
distance of not more than four feet (4') and where the same are so placed as
not to obstruct light and ventilation.
   C.   An open unenclosed porch or paved terrace may project into a front yard
for a distance not exceeding ten feet (10'), but this shall not be interpreted
to include or permit fixed canopies.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-9: BUILDINGS USED FOR CONSTRUCTION:
Temporary buildings that are used in conjunction with construction work only
may be permitted in any district during the period that the building is being
constructed, but such temporary buildings shall be removed upon completion of
the construction work.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-10: EXISTING RAILROADS AND UTILITIES:
Existing railroads and utilities may continue to be operated and maintained in
dwelling and commercial districts, but no new railroad or utility facilities,
except poles, wires, transmission lines, or subsurface utilities, shall be
established in such districts except where so authorized by the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
12-13-11: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES RESTRICTED IN CERTAIN DISTRICTS:
Whenever the number of employees is restricted in connection with any use in
the Commercial or Service and Light Industrial District, such maximum number
applies only to employees engaged in processing or treating materials or
products on the premises and not to employees engaged in selling, clerical,
delivery or activities.
(Revised Zoning Ord., 8-15-1993)
TITLE 13: SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
Section
13-1-1:   USGS Datum
13-1-2:   Compliance Required
13-1-3:   Village Policy Regarding Public Improvements And Services
13-1-4:   Definitions
13-1-5:   Variances
13-1-6:   Violation; Penalty
13-1-1: USGS DATUM:
   A.   The base or datum of the Village is fixed as the United States
Geological Survey datum.
(1971 Code § 20-1)
   B.   All grades hereafter established shall have references to the base or
datum provided in this section.
(1971 Code § 20-2)
13-1-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   The plat of any subdivision within the Village or within one and one-
half (1-1/2) miles of the boundaries thereof shall not be entitled to record in
the Office of the Recorder of Deeds or the Registrar of Titles of Cook County,
Illinois, until it shall have been approved in the manner prescribed this
title.
(1971 Code § 20-4)
   B.   No building permit shall be issued by the Village for the purpose of
building upon or improving any parcel or tract of land unless such parcel
consists of one or more lots in an approved and recorded or registered
subdivision, as shown by a copy of the plat of subdivision certified by the
Recorder of Deeds or Registrar of Titles of Cook County, Illinois, and filed
with the Director of Building and Code Enforcement of the Village.
(1971 Code § 20-5)
13-1-3: VILLAGE POLICY REGARDING PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND SERVICES:
The Village hereby defines its policy to be that the Village and all of its
departments will withhold all additional public improvements and services of
whatsoever nature, including the maintenance of streets and the furnishing of
sewerage facilities and water service, from all areas and parcels which have
not been lawfully subdivided and have not met the requirements set forth in
this title.
(1971 Code § 20-6)
13-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and terminating at the other end with
a vehicular turnaround.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any sewer, water main, pavement, sidewalk or other facility
provided to serve the residents of a land subdivision and for which the Village
is responsible for maintenance and operation.
SUBDIVIDING. 
   A.   Any change, rearrangement, or resubdivision in the boundary of division
lines of any parcel or parcels of real estate or of any public thoroughfare; or
   B.   The platting of a parcel or tract of land into a single numbered lot
without alteration of its boundaries.
(1971 Code § 20-3)
13-1-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Wherever the Zoning Board of Appeals finds that extreme hardship would
result from the strict application of the regulations contained in this title,
it may recommend to the Village Board of Trustees that approval of a plat
varying from the strict terms of this title be granted, provided the nature of
such variances and the reasons for granting them are fully stated.
   B.   A variation from the strict terms of this title shall be permitted only
when the distance of existing facilities or the conditions of topography or
other characteristics of the land involved create unusual circumstances so that
strict compliance with the terms of this title would create undue hardship and
is not contrary to the public welfare or injurious to the property or
improvements in the vicinity and district in which the property is located.
(1971 Code § 20-12)
13-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(1971 Code § 20-19)
CHAPTER 2: SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
Section
13-2-1:   Preapplication Procedure
13-2-2:   Tentative Plat
13-2-3:   Final Plat
13-2-1: PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Any person wishing to subdivide land owned by him and located within the
corporate limits of the Village, or within one and one-half (1-1/2) miles of
such corporate limits, shall first submit to the Zoning Board of Appeals, or
its representative, information as may be required by the Zoning Board of
Appeals to describe or outline the existing conditions of the site and the
proposed development thereof. The applicant shall be supplied with pertinent
information on Zoning Board of Appeals requirements.
(1971 Code § 20-7)
13-2-2: TENTATIVE PLAT:
   A.   Submission And Fee: After completion of the procedure described in
section
13-2-1 of this chapter, the owner shall submit to the Zoning Board of Appeals,
through the Village Clerk, for examination and recommendation for approval or
disapproval, a tentative plat of subdivision in septuplicate blueline prints.
Upon filing the tentative plat with the Village Clerk, the owner shall pay a
filing fee as set forth in the Village Fee Schedule, subsection
3-10-1G of this Code. The tentative plat shall meet the following requirements:
(1971 Code § 20-8; amd. 2019 Code)
      1.   Each tentative plat shall be drawn to the scale of not more than one
hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100').
      2.   The tentative plat shall show the boundaries of the property to be
subdivided and all of the following items which are located within the property
or within two hundred feet (200') of its boundaries: existing or proposed
easements and the nature thereof, section and half-section lines, existing
sewer and water facilities, existing permanent buildings, and drainage
structures and drainage courses.
      3.   Boundary lines of any Village, Township, Park District, School
District or Sanitary District, and Forest Preserve District located within the
subdivision or within two hundred feet (200') of the boundaries thereof shall
be so designated.
      4.   Contour lines at intervals of not more than one foot (1') in
accordance with the topographical map on file in the Office of the Village
shall be shown for the area within the subdivision and within two hundred feet
(200') of the boundaries thereof.
      5.   The widths of road pavements and dedications, streets and alleys;
dimensions of lots and blocks, together with exact areas of each lot, shall be
shown. The full width of streets bounding the proposed subdivision with their
names and the widths and names of intersecting streets within two hundred feet
(200') of the boundaries of the subdivision shall also be shown.
      6.   Provisions shall be made for direct connections with the existing
streets in adjoining subdivisions or a statement of reasons shall be furnished
as to why such provision is unnecessary.
      7.   All streets shall be dedicated and lot areas computed exclusive of
street areas. Widths of all streets shall be not less than the widths shown in
the Official Plan or as otherwise required by the Zoning Board of Appeals;
provided, that no street other than an approved cul-de-sac shall be less than
sixty feet (60') wide. A building setback line shall be shown conforming to the
requirements of the Village zoning ordinance.
      8.   No block shall be more than one thousand three hundred twenty feet
(1,320') long except where additional length shall be reasonably required to
conform to parallel blocks in existing subdivisions. Nothing in this subsection
A8, however, shall restrict the right of the Zoning Board of Appeals to require
that blocks be platted for a lesser number of feet when, in their judgment, the
same is required or advisable in view of traffic conditions and public
convenience.
      9.   Where it is desirable to subdivide land which, because of its size
or location, does not lend itself to development under the usual street
pattern, and where the Zoning Board of Appeals deems it desirable in the public
interest, access may be had to lots by means of cul-de-sac streets not less
than fifty feet (50') wide terminating in turnarounds of circular shape with a
minimum right-of-way diameter of one hundred feet (100'). Such cul-de-sac
streets shall not exceed three hundred feet (300') in length.
      10.   All irregular lots shall have a minimum width of thirty feet (30')
frontage at street lines and sixty feet (60') at the established building line.
Double frontage lots are prohibited. All lots shall have a minimum depth of one
hundred twenty five feet (125'). Interior lots shall be not less than fifty
five feet (55') at the building line, and corner lots shall be sixty five feet
(65') at the building line.
      11.   Where practicable, the side lines of all lots shall be
approximately perpendicular to the street line.
      12.   The zoning classification of the property under the zoning
ordinance, the north point, the scale, and the name, address and telephone
number of the surveyor or land planner shall all be noted on the plat.
      13.   The name of the proposed subdivision and the name or names of the
legal and beneficial owner or owners shall be shown.
      14.   Adequate provision shall be made for the dedication or reservation
of land for parks, playgrounds, school sites or other public purposes;
provided, however, that this subsection A14 shall not be construed to require
dedication or reservation for said purposes of an area exceeding ten percent
(10%) of the total area to be subdivided.
      15.   Additional information and provision for other requirements shall
be shown to the extent deemed necessary by the Zoning Board of Appeals in any
individual case.
(1971 Code § 20-8)
   B.   Approval Or Disapproval: Approval or disapproval of the tentative plat
shall be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals within thirty (30) days from
the date of filing such plat with the Zoning Board of Appeals. The approval
shall not constitute acceptance of the subdivision.
(1971 Code § 20-9)
13-2-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submission: After the approval of the tentative plat, a final plat of
subdivision shall be submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals which shall be in
strict accordance with the approved tentative plat and shall meet the following
additional requirements:
      1.   It shall be on tracing cloth accompanied by two (2) blueline prints
and drawn to a scale of not more than one hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100').
      2.   The date of preparation and a proper north sign shall be shown.
      3.   It shall be dated and certified by a registered Illinois land
surveyor to the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him, and that
monuments and markers thereon exist as located, and that all dimensional and
geodetic details are correct.
      4.   A legal description of the property shall be given which includes
reference to the section, township, and range. All lands dedicated to public
use shall be marked “For Public Use” and shall designate the nature of such
use. In the event that easements are granted for a private use, the plat shall
designate the beneficiaries of such use and the nature thereof. Where any
easement is granted to a public utility company, the plat shall show the
approval of the company of the terms of each easement.
      5.   All streets shall be named in conformity with any street naming plan
of the Village now existing or hereafter adopted.
      6.   All lot lines and areas shall be shown, lots and blocks numbered or
lettered and building lines and easements shown and determined by measurement.
      7.   All necessary dimensions, both linear and angular, shall be shown.
Linear dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot, and all
deflection angles, radii, arcs, points of curvature, and central angles of all
corners and curves along the property line of each street shall be shown.
      8.   The description and location of all survey monuments erected in the
subdivision shall be shown. Such monuments shall be either iron pipe not less
than one inch (1") in diameter and thirty inches (30") long, or stone or
concrete not less than four inches (4") in diameter and twenty four inches
(24") long. The monuments shall be erected at all street corners, at all points
where street lines intersect the exterior boundaries of the subdivision, and at
angle points of curve in each street.
      9.   There shall be attached to the plat a certificate of title showing
ownership of all lands to be subdivided. Certification that all taxes and
special assessments have been paid and all other certificates, seals and
signatures as required by law shall also be shown.
(1971 Code § 20-10)
   B.   Approval: When the Zoning Board of Appeals has approved the final plat,
it shall be stamped or lettered upon the final plat, signed by the Chair of the
Zoning Board of Appeals and attested by its secretary. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall then transmit the approved final plat to the Village President
and Board of Trustees, together with a letter of transmittal, conveying to the
President and Board of Trustees such information concerning the final plat as
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall deem necessary.
(1971 Code § 20-11)
   C.   Final Approval By President And Board Of Trustees: When the President
and Board of Trustees are satisfied with the final plat and conditions and
documents pertaining to the subdivision platted thereon, the President and
Board of Trustees shall approve the plat and authorize and direct the
appropriate officers of the Village to approve and sign the plat for and in the
name of the Village. Such approval shall be attested by the Village Clerk and
sealed with the Corporate Seal of the Village.
(1971 Code § 20-14)
   D.   Recording Final Plat: The approved plat of subdivision shall promptly
thereafter be filed by the subdivider with the Recorder of Deeds or the
Registrar of Titles of Cook County, Illinois. A copy thereof, bearing the
certificate of either of such County officers that such plat has been recorded
or registered in his office and that such copy is a true and correct copy of
the plat so recorded or registered shall promptly thereafter be filed with the
Director of Building and Code Enforcement.
(1971 Code § 20-15)
CHAPTER 3: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
Section
13-3-1:   Installation Of Improvements And Deposit Required
13-3-2:   Sewers
13-3-3:   Water Mains And Fire Hydrants
13-3-4:   Streets
13-3-5:   Telephone And Electric Service Lines
13-3-6:   Sidewalks
13-3-7:   Street Lighting
13-3-1: INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS AND DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Prior to the granting of final approval of the plat of subdivision, the
subdivider shall have agreed to install the required improvements listed in
this chapter. Approval shall also be withheld until the subdivider shall have
presented plans and specifications for such improvements, prepared in writing
by the Village Engineer, and until the subdivider shall have deposited with the
Village cash in an amount equal to the estimated cost of construction of the
required improvements as estimated by the Village Engineer.
(1971 Code § 20-13)
13-3-2: SEWERS:
   A.   Sanitary sewers shall be installed to serve all properties within the
subdivision and carried to the limit of the subdivision for extension to
adjacent areas as indicated on the approved plat; provided, however, that
septic tank systems may be substituted for sanitary sewers where authorized by
this Code or by ordinance on lots exceeding one-half (1/2) acre in size.
   B.   Storm sewers or other adequate drainage system shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision to carry off water from all inlets and catch
basins and connected to an adequate outfall, as determined by the Village
Engineer. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of
the sanitary sewer system.
(1971 Code § 20-13)
13-3-3: WATER MAINS AND FIRE HYDRANTS:
Water mains and fire hydrants shall be installed to serve all properties within
the subdivision, carried to the limits of the subdivision for extension to
adjacent areas, and looped or cross connected as determined by the Village
Engineer.
(1971 Code § 20-13)
13-3-4: STREETS:
   A.   Grades of streets shall not be in excess of three percent (3%).
   B.   All streets within the corporate limits of the Village, other than
State and County highways, shall be improved with pavements to an overall width
of not less than twenty eight feet (28') from back to back of curbs, and
extended to the limits of the subdivision for extension into adjacent areas.
   C.   Pavements shall be eight inch (8") waterbound macadam base and surfaced
with bituminous concrete not less than two inches (2") thick and shall
otherwise conform with applicable sections of the "State of Illinois Standard
Specifications for Road & Bridge Construction", adopted January 1952, and
subsequent revisions thereof.
   D.   Curbs and gutters shall be installed when, in the opinion of the
Village Engineer, the contour of land and drainage conditions make it
appropriate; except, that curbs and gutters shall not be required in areas
zoned as A Single-Family District. They shall be portland cement concrete of
the integral rolled type unit, not less than eighteen inches (18") in overall
width, and not less than eight inches (8") thick where the curb abuts the
street pavement.
   E.   Stormwater inlets and catch basins shall be provided within the roadway
improvement at points specified by the Village Engineer.
   F.   All curb return radii shall be twenty five feet (25').
   G.   In subdivisions outside the Village limits, but within one and one-half
(1-1/2) miles thereof, all improvements shall conform to the standards outlined
in this chapter for subdivisions within the corporate area.
(1971 Code § 20-13)
13-3-5: TELEPHONE AND ELECTRIC SERVICE LINES:
   A.   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be placed in
rear line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   B.   Where telephone and electric service lines are placed underground
entirely throughout a subdivided area, the conduits or cables shall be placed
within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which will not conflict
with other underground services.
(1971 Code § 20-13)
13-3-6: SIDEWALKS:
Concrete sidewalks not less than five feet (5') wide, five inches (5") thick,
and offset one foot (1') from the abutting lot lines shall be required where
specified by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(1971 Code § 20-13)
13-3-7: STREET LIGHTING:
Adequate lighting facilities in accordance with requirements of the Village
shall be provided by the subdivider for all public streets in any subdivision.
(1971 Code § 20-13)
TITLE 14: FLOOD CONTROL AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1: DEVELOPMENT IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
14-1-1:   Purpose
14-1-2:   Definitions
14-1-3:   Instructions On Use Of Chapter
14-1-4:   Duties Of Enforcement Officials
14-1-5:   Base Flood Elevation
14-1-6:   Occupation And Use Of Flood Fringe Areas
14-1-7:   Occupation And Use Of Designated Floodways
14-1-8:   Occupation And Use Of SFHA Areas Where Floodways Are Not Identified
14-1-9:   Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Floodplain Areas
14-1-10:   Other Development Requirements
14-1-11:   Variances
14-1-12:   Disclaimer Of Liability
14-1-13:   Violation; Penalties
14-1-14:   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
14-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the Village’s eligibility in the
National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential losses due to periodic
flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic
and natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related
land resources. This chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following
specific purposes:
   A.   To meet the requirements of the Rivers, Lakes and Streams Act (615 ILCS
5/4.9 et seq.);
   B.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   C.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   D.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   E.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   F.   To make Federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the Village by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program;
   G.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified at 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
   H.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources; and
   I.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate floodwater and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
ACT: An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of
the State of Illinois (615 ILCS 5/4.9 et seq.)
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible and
will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are
specified in subsection 14-1-7C of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in section 14-1-5 of this chapter.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured
home, mobile home or prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days, unless fully licensed and ready for highway
use.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline in or into which surface water or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, rip-rapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris, or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form
of channel modification involving a significant change in the channel cross-
section and typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off-site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this chapter, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as-built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that FEMA
will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries
or floodways as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map, once the as-built plans are submitted and approved.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
DOPW: The Director of Public Works of the Village of Rosemont or such other
person or persons as may be designated by the Village President or the Director
of Public Works, including, but not limited to, the Village Engineer.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: 
   A.   The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that portion of the
floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by IDNR/OWR, which
is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year frequency flood discharge
with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to the loss of flood
conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase in
velocities.
   B.   The floodways are designated for Willow-Higgins Creek and the Des
Plaines River on Flood Insurance Rate Map number 17031C and panels 0219, 0357,
and 0376, effective August 19, 2008, of the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map
for Cook County (FIRM), prepared by FEMA.
   C.   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the one and one- half (1-1/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
Village that may be annexed into the Village are designated for Willow-Higgins
Creek and the Des Plaines River on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for Cook
County, effective August 19, 2008, prepared by FEMA.
   D.   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building.
   B.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or
recreational vehicle is on site for less than one hundred eighty (180) days, it
must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   C.   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
or similar projects.
   D.   Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
   E.   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
   F.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials; and
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   G.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of floodwater or surface water, including extensive vegetation
removal.
DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and facilities
such as re- roofing or re-surfacing of roads when there is no increase in
elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) including State, Federal or local units of
government.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-79,
revised as of October 1, 2001. This incorporation does not include any later
editions or amendments.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland waves, or the unusual and rapid
accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within the Village. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
FLOODPLAIN: 
   A.   That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached flood hazard areas, ponding
areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
   B.   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the Village
that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
The SFHAs of the Village are generally identified as such on Flood Insurance
Rate Map number 17031C and panels 0219, 0357 and 0376, effective August 19,
2008, of the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map for Cook County prepared by
FEMA.
   C.   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within
the one and one-half (1-1/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village
that may be annexed into the Village are designated for Willow-Higgins Creek
and the Des Plaines River on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for Cook County,
effective August 19, 2008, prepared by FEMA.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analyses which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water Resources.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on the effective FIRM.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational
vehicle.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects
which floodplain development activities might have on the public health, safety
and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory storage, soil erosion
and sedimentation control, and channel restoration. MITIGATION may also include
those activities taken to reduce a structure's susceptibility to flooding.
NGVD: National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929; reference surface set by the
National Geodetic Survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
NATURAL: When used in reference to channels, means those channels formed by the
existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross-section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is re-
established. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which, in their natural condition, were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within or upon the
borders of the State of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the State of Illinois
under the Illinois Land Surveyor Act (225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.)
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the State of
Illinois under the Illinois Professional Engineering Practice Act (225 ILCS
325/1 et seq.)
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not result
in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five
percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damaged occurred.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A RETENTION FACILITY stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A DETENTION FACILITY provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on- stream lake system or any other identified channel. This
term does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas,
areas of sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel or
ponding and shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A0, A1-30, AE,
A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M, E, D, or X.
STRUCTURE: The results of a manmade change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home; or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days unless it is fully
licensed and ready for highway use.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: A building is considered substantially damaged when it
sustains damage from any cause (fire, flood, earthquake, etc.), whereby the
cost of fully restoring the structure would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
of the pre-damage market value of the structure, regardless of the actual
repair work performed. This term also includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: 
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either: 1) before the improvement or repair is started; or 2) if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
This term also includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss.
   B.   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure regardless of the actual work
performed.
   C.   The term does not, however, include either: 1) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing State or local Health,
Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions; or 2) any alteration of a historic structure; provided,
that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as
a historic structure.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross- section to a wide cross-section or vice versa.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-3: INSTRUCTIONS ON USE OF CHAPTER:
   A.   The DOPW shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the duties listed
in section
14-1-4 of this chapter.
   B.   To fulfill those duties, the DOPW first should use the criteria listed
in section
14-1-5 of this chapter to determine whether the development site is located
within a floodplain.
   C.   1.   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a
floodplain, the DOPW must determine whether the development site is within a
flood fringe, a designated floodway, or an SFHA or floodplain for which no
floodway has been identified.
      2.   If the site is within a flood fringe, the DOPW shall require that
the minimum requirements of section
14-1-6 of this chapter be met.
      3.   If the site is within a floodway, the DOPW shall require that the
minimum requirements of section
14-1-7 of this chapter be met.
      4.   If the site is located within an SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the DOPW shall require that the
minimum requirements of section
14-1-8 of this chapter be met.
   D.   In addition, the general requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of section
14-1-6,
14-1-7 or
14-1-8 of this title.
   E.   The DOPW shall assure that all subdivision proposals shall meet the
requirements of section
14-1-10 of this chapter.
   F.   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the DOPW shall review
the requirements of section
14-1-11 of this chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the DOPW shall
complete all notification requirements.
   G.   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the DOPW may take any and all actions as outlined in section
14-1-13 of this chapter.
   H.   Whenever this chapter refers to or cites a statute or regulation that
has been repealed or superseded or replaced, then this chapter shall be
interpreted as referring to such statute or regulation as may have replaced the
statute or regulation referred to or cited in this chapter. If the repealed
statute or regulation was not replaced by another regulation or statute, then
this chapter shall be interpreted as referring to any equivalent applicable
statute or regulation which deals with the same subject matter as the statute
or regulation that was repealed.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-4: DUTIES OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   DOPW Duties: The DOPW shall be responsible for the general
administration and enforcement of this chapter which shall include the
following:
      1.   Determining the floodplain designation.
      2.   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
      3.   If they are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway,
flood fringe or floodplain for which a detailed study has not been conducted
and which drains more than one square mile.
      4.   Check whether the development is potentially within an extended SFHA
(with a drainage area less than one square mile), indicating that the
development would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance, or
inundation which would be the basis for the applicant being required to
delineate the floodplain and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections
of this chapter.
   B.   Professional Engineer Review:
      1.   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a registered professional engineer
(PE) under the employ or contract of the Village for review to ensure that the
development meets section
14-1-7 or
14-1-8 of this chapter.
      2.   In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
   C.   Dam Safety Requirements: The Village Engineer shall:
      1.   Ensure that an IDNR/OWR permit has been issued or a letter
indicating no permit is required, if the proposed development activity includes
construction of a “dam” as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or
impoundment structures.
   D.   Other Permit Requirements: The Village Engineer shall ensure that any
and all required Federal, State and local permits are received prior to the
issuance of a floodplain development permit.
   E.   Plan Review And Permit Issuance: The Village Engineer shall:
      1.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the Village meet the requirements of this chapter; and
      2.   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of the Village when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   F.   Inspection Review: The Village Engineer shall inspect all development
projects before, during and after construction to assure proper elevation of
the structure and to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Elevation And Floodproofng Certificates: The Village Engineer shall
maintain permit files including:
      1.   Elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building subject to
section
14-1-9 of this chapter; and/or
      2.   The elevation to which a nonresidential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to
section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
   H.   Records For Public Inspection: The Village Engineer shall maintain for
public inspection and furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated
floodway maps, copies of Federal or State permit documents, variance
documentation, conditional letter of map revision, letter of map revision,
letter of map amendment and as-built elevation and floodproofing and/or
elevation certificates for all buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   I.   State Permits: The Village Engineer shall ensure that construction
authorization has been granted by IDNR/OWR for all development projects subject
to sections
14-1-7 and
14-1-8 of this chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to
the Village. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the
Village and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per Illinois
Compiled Statutes;
      2.   Department of Transportation projects, dams or impoundment
structures, as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter, and all other State, Federal or local unit of
government projects, including projects of the Village and County, except for
those projects meeting the requirements of subsection
14-1-7G of this chapter;
      3.   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection
14-1-7C3e of this chapter;
      4.   An engineer’s analysis of the flood profile due to subsection
14-1-7C3d of this chapter;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as subsections
14-1-7C3a, C3b and C3h of this chapter;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within, under, or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
      8.   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
   J.   Cooperation With Other Agencies: The Village Engineer shall:
      1.   Cooperate with State and Federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve
the administration of this chapter;
      2.   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map;
      3.   Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance Program;
and
      4.   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
   K.   Promulgate Regulations: The Village Engineer shall promulgate rules and
regulations as necessary to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter, subject however to the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for
any ordinance changes.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-5: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
   A.   1    This chapter’s protection standard is based on the flood insurance
study for the Village.
      2.   If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available in the Illinois State Water
Survey’s Floodplain Information Repository that has been approved by IDNR/OWR
and FEMA.
      3.   When a party disagrees with the best available data, he/she may
finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
Willow-Higgins Creek and the Des Plaines River shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the Countywide Flood Insurance Study for Cook County
prepared by FEMA, effective August 19, 2008, and such amendments to said study
and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the one and one-half
(1-1/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village or that may be
annexed into the Village shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles
in the Countywide Flood Insurance Study for Cook County prepared by FEMA,
effective August 19, 2008, and such amendments or revisions to said study and
maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an “AH Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the Village.
   E.   1.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of
the remaining SFHAs delineated as an “A Zone” on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
of the Village shall be according to the best existing data available in the
Illinois State Water Survey Floodplain Information Repository.
      2.   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be
determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-2, WSP-2, HEC-RAS, or a dynamic
model such as FEQ.
      3.   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-1, TR-20, HEC-HMS, or FEQ, or by techniques
presented in various publications prepared by the United States Geological
Survey for estimating peak flood discharges.
      4.   Along any watercourses draining more than one square mile, the above
analyses shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for approval. Once approved, it must be
submitted to the Illinois State Water Survey Floodplain Information Repository
for filing.
      5.   For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record, plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study and approved by IDNR/OWR for drainage areas greater than one
square mile.
      6.   For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than one
square mile) which has been identified by the DOPW pursuant to subsection
14-1-4A4 of this chapter, the base flood elevation shall be determined by the
applicant utilizing a method as approved in subsection E of this section, with
concurrence of the DOPW.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-6: OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of
this chapter. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this section, along with the requirements of
section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
   A.   Development Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body
not exempted by State law shall commence any development in the SFHA without
first obtaining a development permit from the Village.
      2.   Application For Permit:
         a.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Village.
         b.   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations in MSL, 1929 adjustment datum or NGVD and all changes
in grade resulting from excavation or filling; and the location and dimensions
of all buildings and additions to buildings.
         c.   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans, and the development will be subject to the requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
      3.   Review Of Application:
         a.   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the DOPW shall
compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation.
         b.   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher
than the base flood elevation of the current Flood Insurance Rate Map and which
has not been filled after the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map
without a permit as required by this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
         c.   The DOPW shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map
identification.
      4.   Soil Erosion And Sediment Control Plan: A soil erosion and sediment
control plan for disturbed areas shall be submitted. This plan shall include a
description of the sequence of grading activities and the temporary sediment
and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate their effects. This
plan shall also include a description of final stabilization and revegetation
measures, and the identification of a responsible party to ensure post-
construction maintenance.
      5.   Other Federal, State And Local Permits: The DOPW shall be
responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other Federal,
State, and local permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be
required for this type of activity. The DOPW shall not issue a permit unless
all other Federal, State, and local permits have been obtained.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages:
      1.   Public Health And Safety Preserved: No development in the flood
fringe shall create a threat to public health and safety.
      2.   Use Of Fill: If fill is being used to elevate the site above the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit
sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the
purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
      3.   Compensatory Storage:
         a.   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         b.   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         c.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         d.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
         e.   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-7: OCCUPATION AND USE OF DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This section applies to proposed
development, redevelopment, site modification or building modification within a
designated floodway. The designated floodway for Willow-Higgins Creek and the
Des Plaines River shall be as delineated on the designated floodway maps
designated by IDNR/OWR according to and referenced in section
14-1-2 of this chapter, definition of “designated floodway”. Only those uses
and structures will be permitted which meet the criteria in this section. All
floodway modifications shall be the minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose
of the project. The development shall also meet the requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
   B.   Development Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by State law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the DOPW and IDNR/OWR.
      2.   Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall
be made on a form provided by the DOPW. The application shall include the
following information:
         a.   Name and address of applicant;
         b.   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
         c.   Name of stream or body of water affected;
         d.   Description of proposed activity;
         e.   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
         f.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
         g.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
         h.   Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
         i.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
         j.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
         k.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
         l.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as
a minimum:
            (1)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow.
            (2)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or NGVD
or North American Vertical Datum, adjacent property lines and ownership,
drainage and flood control easements, location of any channels and any existing
or future access roads, distance between proposed activity and navigation
channel (when the proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body
of water), designated floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and
dimensions of any proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of
cross-sections, north arrow, and a graphic or numerical scale.
            (3)   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study
reach showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions
of the work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal
water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical).
            (4)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
            (5)   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
         m.   Any and all other Federal, State and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
         n.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of subsection C of
this section.
         o.   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
         p.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a
registered professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land
surveyor; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
         q.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
            (1)   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed
work;
            (2)   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative
locations or methods (see subsection C3i(1) of this section) to accomplish the
purpose of the proposed work;
            (3)   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection C3i(1) of this section would have
on the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected; and
            (4)   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project,
considering cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the
body of water affected.
      3.   The DOPW shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other Federal, State, and local permits and approvals that may be
required for this type of activity.
         a.   The DOPW shall not issue the development permit unless all
required Federal and State permits have been obtained.
         b.   A registered professional engineer, under the employ or contract
of the Village, shall review and approve applications reviewed under this
section.
   C.   Preventing Increased Damages; List Of Appropriate Uses:
      1.   The only development in a floodway which will be allowed are
appropriate uses which will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and
which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood
heights or velocity, or be a threat to public health and safety and welfare, or
impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or
channel, or permanently impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this chapter. Only those appropriate uses listed in 17 Illinois
Administrative Code Part 3708 will be allowed. The approved appropriate uses
are as follows:
         a.   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife.
         b.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses.
         c.   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls.
         d.   Underground and overhead utilities.
         e.   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems,
including any related fencing (at least 50 percent) open when viewed from any
one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including
open air pavilions and toilet facilities (4 stall maximum) that will not block
flood flows nor reduce floodway storage.
         f.   Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory
structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage.
         g.   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto.
         h.   Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
            (1)   The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event
will not exceed one foot (1.0'); or
            (2)   The applicant of a short-term recreational use facility
parking lot formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events
and accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all
overbank flooding events.
         i.   Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
nonerosive slope toward a watercourse.
         j.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure.
         k.   The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged building;
provided, that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the building
was damaged to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before the
damage occurred, the building will be protected from flooding to the flood
protection elevation.
         l.   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase the
enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows including, but not limited to,
fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios, and second story additions. If the
building was improved to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before
the modification occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will
be protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation.
      2.   Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, excavation or
channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise nonappropriate uses in the
floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act as a
fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
      3.   Within the designated floodway as identified on the floodway maps
designated by IDNR/OWR, the construction of an appropriate use will be
considered permissible; provided, that the proposed project meets the following
engineering and mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting
plans, calculations and data by a registered professional engineer; and
provided, that any structure meets the protection requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter:
         a.   Preservation Of Flood Conveyance So As Not To Increase Flood
Stages Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on-stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
            (1)   Designated floodway conveyance, “K” = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where
“n” is Manning's roughness factor, “A” is the effective flow area of the cross-
section, and “R” is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See Open
Channel Hydraulics, Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.)
            (2)   The same Manning's “n” value shall be used for both existing
and proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a Federal,
State, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
            (3)   Transition sections shall be provided and used in
calculations of effective designated floodway conveyance. The following
expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant’s engineer
can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more
abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
               (A)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow to a
wider section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate
of one foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's
length.
               (B)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length.
               (C)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet
(10') of stream length shall be used.
               (D)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross-
sections with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated
floodway delineation on adjacent properties.
               (E)   All cross-sections used in the calculations shall be
located perpendicular to flood flows.
         b.   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase Downstream
Flooding:
            (1)   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
            (2)   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to
at least one and one-half (1.5) times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
            (3)   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head
loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
            (4)   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All designated floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
            (5)   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the
location of the proposed construction, the applicant’s engineer shall
demonstrate to IDNR/OWR, through a determination of flood discharges and water
surface elevations, that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
            (6)   There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a
result of a floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to
reduce flooding at existing structures.
         c.   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights:
            (1)   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on-
stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the
average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events
up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
            (2)   In the case of bridges or culverts or on-stream structures
built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood
flows, velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of rip-rap or other design measures.
         d.   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches:
            (1)   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than one-tenth foot (0.1') when compared to the
existing conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
frequency event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within
the channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or
within recorded flood easements.
            (2)   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood
stages greater than one-tenth foot (0.1'), the developer must contact IDNR/OWR
to obtain a permit for a dam or waiver.
               (A)   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in section
14-1-5 of this chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT, FHWA
Hydraulic Chart for the Selection of Highway Culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT/Federal Highway Administration Hydraulics of Bridge
Waterways calculation procedures.
               (B)   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per
subsection C3b of this section.
               (C)   Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection C3c of
this section.
               (D)   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is
used for recreational or commercial navigation, a Department of Transportation
permit must be received.
               (E)   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the
bridge showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this
subsection.
               (F)   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall
be designed per subsection C3h of this section.
         e.   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts And
Approach Roads:
            (1)   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than one-tenth foot (0.1')
increase in backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies
up to and including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a
source of flood damage.
            (2)   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant’s engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
            (3)   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing
is a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with 17 Illinois Administrative Code Part 3708 (Floodway
Construction in Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and
concurrence before a permit is issued.
         f.   On-Stream Structures Built For Purpose Of Backing Up Water:
            (1)   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot
when compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and
including the 100-year frequency event, shall be contained within the channel
banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as
within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within
recorded flood easements.
            (2)   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must
be obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
            (3)   All dams and impoundment structures as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Illinois
Administrative Code Part 3702 (Construction and Maintenance of Dams). If the
proposed activity involves a modification of the channel or floodway to
accommodate an impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
               (A)   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest
by providing flood control, public recreation, or regional stormwater
detention.
               (B)   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of
indigenous fish species which require access to upstream areas as part of their
life cycle, such as for spawning.
               (C)   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded
water quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual
bank slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a pre-sedimentation
basin.
               (D)   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control.
               (E)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of
this section.
         g.   Floodproofing Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures:
            (1)   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of
the existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no farther than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building.
            (2)   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be
required for floodproofing activities.
         h.   Excavation In Floodway:
            (1)   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and
culvert openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing
bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other
appropriate uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
            (2)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR, through engineering
calculations or model tests, that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency:
               (A)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
               (B)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length;
               (C)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet
(10') of stream length shall be used; and
               (D)   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream
and downstream of the transition sections.
         i.   Activity Involving Channel Modification: If the proposed activity
involves a channel modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
            (1)   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which
would accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the
body of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank
stabilization, floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from
the floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel, or the establishment
of a stream side buffer strip or greenbelt. Channel modification is acceptable
if the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and
fish and wildlife habitat;
            (2)   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
            (3)   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
               (A)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross-
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical;
               (B)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at
both the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they
will prevent erosion;
               (C)   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of stream side (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation;
               (D)   Clearing of stabilizing vegetation shall be limited to
that which is essential for construction of the channel;
               (E)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than 3:1 horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable. Native
vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or rip-rap are preferred approaches. Artificial materials such as
concrete, gabions, or construction rubble should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives;
               (F)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall
be seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover;
               (G)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles, and other similar features, such
features shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and
flow characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established,
where appropriate;
               (H)   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end
of the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality;
               (I)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry, and
all items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel;
               (J)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project;
               (K)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification; and
            (4)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
section.
         j.   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
         k.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in
the floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
            (1)   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the
maximum vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the
time soil is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural
vegetation be destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days
prior to the initiation of improvements.
            (2)   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be
applied to denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization
shall be provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any
portion of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may
not be at final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60)
days.
            (3)   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion
ditches, and sediment traps and basins.
            (4)   A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25')
in width shall be preserved and/or re-established, where possible, along
existing channels (see subsection C3p of this section). Construction vehicle
use of channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be
constructed, where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or
along channels shall be restabilized immediately.
            (5)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be
designed and implemented consistent with “Procedures and Standards for Urban
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois” (1988) also known as the
“Green Book” and “The Illinois Urban Manual” (NRCS, 1995).
         l.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right-of-way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
         m.   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
            (1)   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study referenced in section
14-1-5 of this chapter must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the
study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR shall be
contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data
to use.
            (2)   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of
the proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
               (A)   The requirements of this section for the 100-year
frequency flood elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
               (B)   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water
elevations.
            (3)   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or
a private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, or modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
         n.   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision:
            (1)   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the
designated floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the
applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and
documents necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision
and receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
            (2)   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as-built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging,
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
            (3)   In the case of nongovernment projects, the Municipality in
incorporated areas and the County in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
            (4)   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
            (5)   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
         o.   Professional Engineer’s Supervision: All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional
engineer.
         p.   Criteria For Construction In Floodways: For all activities in the
floodway involving construction within twenty five feet (25') of the channel,
the following criteria shall be met:
            (1)   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within
at least twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
            (2)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during
the construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
         q.   Construction Allowed: After receipt of conditional approval of
the designated floodway change and issuance of a permit and a conditional
letter of map revision, construction as necessary to change the floodway
designation may proceed, but no buildings or structures or other construction
that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area until the designated
floodway map is changed and a final letter of map revision is received. The
designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and concurrence by
IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the as-built plans.
   D.   For those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the
following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and
concurrence prior to the issuance of a permit by the Village:
      1.   An engineer’s analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed bridge
pursuant to subsection C3d of this section.
      2.   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection C3e of this section.
      3.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent storage
pursuant to subsections C3a, C3b and C3h of this section.
      4.   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in
section
14-1-2 of this chapter) and all other State, Federal, or local units of
government projects, including projects of the Village or County.
      5.   An engineer’s determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
      6.   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
      7.   Projects in public bodies of water.
   E.   1.   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5 et seq.
      2.   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has delegated
this responsibility to the Village.
   F.   1.   For any work involving the construction, modification or removal
of a “dam”, as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter, per 17 Illinois Administrative Code Part 3702
(Construction and Maintenance of Dams), an IDNR/OWR permit shall be obtained
prior to the start of construction of a dam.
      2.   If the DOPW finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/OWR permit, the
DOPW shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg Office.
      3.   If the DOPW finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe condition,
the DOPW shall immediately notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg
Office, and the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA).
   G.   The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer’s review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
      1.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
         a.   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations;
         b.   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway;
         c.   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe
or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed;
         d.   Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the estimated
100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of an
existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting towers
shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not catch
debris;
         e.   Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
         f.   A utility crossing carrying material which may cause “water
pollution”, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act, 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5 (1992 State Bar Edition), shall be provided with shutoff
valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed; and
         g.   All Illinois Commerce Commission, National Electric Safety Codes,
and Federal requirements for clearance must be met.
      2.   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
         a.   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope;
         b.   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation; and
         c.   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
      3.   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences),
properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
      4.   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
         a.   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length;
         b.   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of the
bank;
         c.   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional area
of the stream channel or bank of the lake; and
         d.   Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side slopes
are the preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high
channel velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or rip-rap are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete,
construction rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
      5.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
         a.   The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade;
         b.   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up
the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert;
         c.   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive material, such as rip-rap or gravel;
         d.   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized
as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction;
and
         e.   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within
one year after authorization.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-8: OCCUPATION AND USE OF SFHA AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED:
   A.   General Conditions Of Development: In SFHA or floodplains, (including
AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A Zones ) where no floodways have been identified and
no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevations have been established by
FEMA, and draining more than a square mile, no development shall be permitted
unless the cumulative effect of the proposals, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated uses and structures, shall not significantly impede or
increase the flow and passage of the floodwaters nor significantly increase the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
   B.   Development Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body,
not exempted by State law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or
floodplain without first obtaining a development permit from the DOPW.
      2.   Application For Permit:
         a.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the DOPW.
         b.   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions; and existing grade
elevations, and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling,
sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations of
the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the
requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter.
         c.   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
            (1)   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose,
and intended use;
            (2)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
            (3)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
            (4)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which
include, as a minimum:
               (A)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of
the waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site,
graphic or numerical scale, and north arrow;
               (B)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water),
floodplain limit, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow, and
a graphical or numerical scale;
               (C)   Cross-section views of the project perpendicular to the
flow of floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed
conditions including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view,
existing and proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10-year frequency
flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood elevation, and graphical or numerical
scales (horizontal and vertical); and
               (D)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for
disturbed areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of
grading activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to
be implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
         d.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection C of this
section.
         e.   Any and all other Federal, State, and local permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
      3.   Review Of Application:
         a.   Based on the best available existing data according to the
Illinois State Water Survey's Floodplain Information Repository, the DOPW shall
compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation.
         b.   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the
developer’s engineer shall calculate the elevation according to subsection
14-1-5E1 of this chapter.
         c.   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation of the current Flood Insurance Rate Map
Identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
         d.   The DOPW shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map
identification.
      4.   Other Federal, State And Local Permits: The DOPW shall be
responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other Federal,
State, and local permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be
required for this type of activity. The DOPW shall not issue the development
permit unless all required Federal, State, and local permits have been
obtained.
   C.   Preventing Increased Damages:
      1.   No development in the SFHA where a floodway has not been determined
shall create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or
velocity, or threat to public health, safety and welfare, or impair the natural
hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or impair
existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter.
      2.   Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway has not been
determined, the following standards shall apply:
         a.   The developer shall have a registered professional engineer state
in writing and show through supporting plans, calculations, and data that the
project meets the engineering requirements of subsections
14-1-7C3a through C3l of this chapter for the entire floodplain as calculated
under the provisions of subsection
14-1-5E1 of this chapter.
            (1)   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering
study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to
IDNR/OWR for acceptance as a designated floodway.
            (2)   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR, the developer
shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of section
14-1-7 of this chapter for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be
defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter, definition of “designated floodway”.
         b.   A development permit shall not be issued unless the applicant
first obtains a permit from IDNR/OWR or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR.
         c.   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has
delegated permit responsibility to the Village per 17 Illinois Administrative
Code Part 3708 for designated floodways.
         d.   (1)   For any work involving the construction, modification or
removal of a “dam”, as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter, per 17 Illinois Administrative Code Part 3702
(Construction and Maintenance of Dams), an IDNR/OWR permit shall be obtained
prior to the start of construction of a dam.
            (2)   If the DOPW finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/OWR
permit, the DOPW shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg Office.
            (3)   If the DOPW finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe
condition, the DOPW shall immediately notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR
Schaumburg Office, and the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA).
      3.   The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review or calculation of a base flood elevation and
designated floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this chapter:
         a.   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            (1)   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations;
            (2)   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway;
            (3)   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed;
            (4)   Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the
estimated 100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of
an existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting
towers shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not
catch debris;
            (5)   Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to
minimum during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation;
            (6)   A utility crossing carrying material which may cause “water
pollution”, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5 (1992
State Bar Edition), shall be provided with shutoff valves on each side of the
body of water to be crossed; and
            (7)   All Illinois Commerce Commission, National Electric Safety
Codes, and Federal requirements for clearance must be met.
         b.   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
            (1)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope;
            (2)   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation; and
            (3)   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
         c.   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
            (1)   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length;
            (2)   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of the
bank;
            (3)   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross-sectional
area of the stream channel by more than ten percent (10%); and
            (4)   Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side
slopes are the preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems.
Where high channel velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use
of alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock, or rip-rap are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as
concrete, construction rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless there are
no practicable alternatives.
         d.   Temporary stream crossings in which:
            (1)   The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade;
            (2)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing
up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile
or outfall invert;
            (3)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least
two feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall
be nonerosive material, such as rip-rap or gravel;
            (4)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction; and
            (5)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed
within one year after authorization.
         e.   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures;
         f.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
         g.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports built at or below
existing grade that would not obstruct the flow of floodwaters;
         h.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size nor ten feet (10') in any one dimension (e.g.,
animal shelters and tool sheds);
         i.   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to the
flow of floodwaters;
         j.   Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
            (1)   The affected length of the stream is less than one thousand
feet (1,000');
            (2)   The work is confined to re-establishing flows in natural
stream channels; or
            (3)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
      4.   The flood carrying capacity within any altered or relocated
watercourse shall be maintained.
      5.   a.   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         b.   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         c.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         d.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-9: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS:
In addition to the requirements found in sections
14-1-6,
14-1-7 and
14-1-8 of this chapter, for development in flood fringes, designated floodways,
and SFHA or floodplains where no floodways have been identified (Zones A, AO,
AH, AE, A1-A30, A99, VO, VI-30, VE, V, M, E, D, or X), the following
requirements shall be met:
   A.   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE).
      2.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on-site waste disposal systems may be permitted, providing all
manholes or other aboveground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
   B.   Carrying Capacity And Notification:
      1.   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
      2.   In addition, the Village shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse.
   C.   Protecting Buildings:
      1.   All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain, also known as an
SFHA, and all buildings located outside the 100-year floodplain but within the
500-year floodplain shall be protected from flood damage below the flood
protection elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the
following situations:
         a.   Construction or placement of a new building;
         b.   “Substantial improvement” to an existing building, as defined in
section
14-1-2 of this chapter, including an increase to the first floor area by more
than twenty percent (20%). This alteration shall be figured cumulatively
beginning with any alteration which has taken place subsequent to April 1,
1990;
         c.   “Substantial damage” to an existing building, as defined in
section
14-1-2 of this chapter;
         d.   “Repetitive loss” to an existing building, as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter;
         e.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This building protection requirement
does not apply to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         f.   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred
eighty days (180) days.
      2.   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods:
         a.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above
the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   Fill requirements are as follows:
               (A)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one
foot (1') deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10')
beyond the foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection
elevation.
               (B)   The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection
elevation. However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural
engineer certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages
due to hydrostatic pressures.
               (C)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour.
               (D)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties.
         b.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
            (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl
space, stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. The permanent openings shall be no more than
one foot (1') above existing grade and consist of a minimum of two (2)
openings. The openings must have a total net area of not less than one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the
base flood elevation.
            (2)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
            (3)   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
               (A)   The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the flood protection elevation.
               (B)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the flood protection elevation.
            (4)   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be
used for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement.
            (5)   Manufactured homes, and travel trailers to be installed on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation; and shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the Rules
and Regulations for the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois Administrative Code Part 870. In addition, all manufactured homes
shall meet the following elevation requirements:
               (A)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved: 1) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; 2) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; 3) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or 4) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage from a flood, the top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation.
               (B)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation or the chassis is at least thirty six inches (36") in
height above grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of
equivalent strength, whichever is less.
            (6)   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection C2b(5) of this
section, unless:
               (A)   They are on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
               (B)   They are fully licensed and ready for highway use. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utility and
service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
         c.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally dry
floodproofed (in lieu of elevation); provided, that:
            (1)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood protection
elevation, and the structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight
and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood.
            (2)   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
            (3)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms,
floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose
of this subsection C2c).
         d.   Tool sheds and detached garages on an existing single-family
platted lot may be constructed with the lowest floor below the flood protection
elevation in accordance with the following:
            (1)   The building is not used for human habitation.
            (2)   All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in
a designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of floodwaters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of section
14-1-7 of this chapter. In addition, all other requirements of sections
14-1-6,
14-1-7 and
14-1-8 of this chapter must be met.
            (3)   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation.
            (4)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
            (5)   The building shall be valued at less than seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500.00) and be less than five hundred (500) square feet in
floor size.
            (6)   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles
or tools and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar
uses.
            (7)   The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of
subsection C2b(1) of this section.
         e.   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall
also meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in section
14-1-7 of this chapter. Nonconforming structures located in a designated
floodway may remain in use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally
altered in accordance with subsection
14-1-7C of this chapter. A nonconforming structure damaged by flood, fire, wind
or other natural or manmade disaster may be restored unless the damage exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of its market value before it was damaged, in which case,
it shall conform to this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-10: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The Village Board of Trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to
the extent that they are known, in all official actions related to land
management, use and development.
   B.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and
planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with sections
14-1-6,
14-1-7,
14-1-8 and
14-1-9 of this chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks, and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   C.   1.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured
home parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations.
      2.   Where this information is not available from an existing study filed
with the Illinois State Water Survey, the applicant's engineer shall be
responsible for calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation per subsection
14-1-5E1 of this chapter and the floodway delineation per section
14-1-2 of this chapter, definition of “designated floodway”.
      3.   The applicant’s engineer shall submit the data to IDNR/OWR for
review and approval as best available regulatory data and then send it to the
State Water Survey.
   D.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   E.   The Village Board of Trustees shall not approve any planned unit
development (PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits
unless such agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
“designated floodway”, as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the DOPW for a
variance. The DOPW shall review the applicant’s request for a variance and
shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees.
   C.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing, or repairs to streambeds and stream banks, roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The provisions of subsections
14-1-6B and
14-1-8C of this chapter shall still be met;
      7.   The activity is not in a designated floodway;
      8.   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem; and
      9.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses.
   D.   The DOPW shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance from the
requirements of section
14-1-9 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
   E.   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or historic structure, as defined in section
14-1-2 of this chapter, definition of “historic structure”, may be granted
using criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsections C and D of
this section, subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   B.   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes.
   C.   This chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
   D.   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the Village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully hereunder.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-13: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a
variance resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due
investigation, the DOPW may determine that a violation of the minimum standards
of this chapter exist. The DOPW shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   B.   If such owner fails, after ten (10) days’ notice, to correct the
violation:
      1.   The Village may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The Village may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   C.   1. The DOPW shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      2.   The DOPW is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension of
the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing, shall
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      3.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the Village President or a hearing officer appointed
by the Village President. Written notice of such hearing shall be served on the
permittee and shall state: a) the grounds for compliance or reasons for
suspension or revocation; and b) the time and place of the hearing. At the
hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence on
his/her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Village President shall
determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked. If the hearing is
conducted by a hearing officer, the hearing officer shall submit a written
report which assesses the credibility of any witnesses and the veracity of any
documentary evidence to the Village President along with a transcript of the
hearing, prior to the Village President making a determination as to whether
the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   D.   Nothing herein shall prevent the Village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
14-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   B.   Where this chapter and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   C.   This chapter hereby repeals ordinance 94-1-5E, “An Ordinance Regulating
Development in Flood Hazard Areas”, adopted January 5, 1994, which was adopted
to meet the National Flood Insurance Program regulations. This chapter is not
intended to repeal the resolution which the Village passed in order to
establish initial eligibility for the program.
(Ord. 2008-7-2D, 7-2-2008)
CHAPTER 2: WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
Section
14-2-1:   County Regulations Adopted
14-2-1: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Corporate Authorities of the Village hereby adopt, by this reference, the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District watershed management ordinance, as well
as any subsequent amendments to said ordinance.
(Ord. 2015-5-20D, 5-20-2015)
 
