VILLAGE CODE
OF
ROXANA, ILLINOIS
Code current through:
Ord. 1126, passed 6-17-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Ste. 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Roxana, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 1126, passed June 17, 2024. Ordinances of the
Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 931
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE ROXANA
   VILLAGE CODE BOOK FOR ROXANA, IL
BE IT ORDAINED by the president and board of trustees of the village of Roxana,
Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the village
code of the village of Roxana, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the village as enacted by the president and board of
trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official village code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the village clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
village code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official village code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the village code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official village code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 06th day of August, 2012.
APPROVED this 06th day of August, 2012.
/s/      
   President
ATTEST:
/s/      
   Village Clerk
Roll Call Vote: 5
AYES: 5
NAYS: 0
ABSENT: 1
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
ROXANA VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Roxana. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ROXANA VILLAGE CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2012 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2012 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   General Method: Any ordinance amending or repealing provisions of this
code shall set forth the title, chapter and section numbers of the section or
sections to be amended or repealed, and this shall constitute sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the amendment, revision
or repeal by ordinance of any part of this code. All such amendments, revisions
or repeals by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and
the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place
in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code. (2012
Code)
   B.   Amendatory Language:
      1.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code should be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language:
That section          of the Village Code of the Village of Roxana, Illinois,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
      2.   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used:
That the Village Code of the Village of Roxana, Illinois, is hereby amended by
adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered as follows:         
which said section shall read as follows:
The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
      3.   When the board desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which said
board desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially the
following language may be made a part of the ordinance:
Section         . It is the intention of the board and it is hereby ordained
that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the
Village Code of the Village of Roxana, Illinois, and the sections of this
ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention.
(1981 Code § 1.04.080; amd. 2012 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in the village to
change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code,
or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with
such code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to
be misrepresented thereby. Any person, firm or corporation violating this
section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (1981 Code § 1.04.100)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the village; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2012 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2012 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Reviving Prior Ordinances: The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive
any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took
effect.
   B.   Offenses: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2012 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Or; And: The word "or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or" if
the sense requires it.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   K.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Roxana".
   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   M.   Corporate Limits: Wherever in this code an act is prohibited, declared
unlawful, required to be performed, directly or by implication, such references
shall imply "within the corporate limits of the village of Roxana, Illinois".
   N.   Oath: The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in
all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and
in such cases, the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words
"affirm" and "affirmed".
   O.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1981 Code §
1.04.020; amd. 2012 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of trustees of
the village of Roxana.
CODE: Unless otherwise indicated, the village code of the village of Roxana.
COUNTY: The county of Madison, state of Illinois.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Roxana, county of Madison, state of Illinois. The term
shall be construed as if the words "of Roxana" followed it and shall extend to
and include its several officers, agents and employees.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2012 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2012
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Violation; Fine: The violation of or failure to comply with any
provision of this code shall constitute an offense against the village, and
where no specific penalty is provided therefor, each offense shall subject the
offender, upon conviction, to a fine per day of, not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), per day,
per offense.
      2.   Public Service: In addition to any other penalty or sanction
available at law, the offender may be required to perform some reasonable
public service work such as, but not limited to, the picking up of litter in
public parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public facilities.
This public service employment may be under the direction of the county
probation department or other appropriate government or private agency that may
be appropriate under the circumstances. Under appropriate circumstances,
determined in an order of court, public service employment may be ordered
instead of a fine or when a person is found to be financially unable to pay a
fine.
      3.   Supervision: The judgment of the court imposing any penalty, fine,
or fine and the cost of prosecution, may also include an order of supervision
of the defendant in compliance with the criminal code of the state of Illinois
including, but not limited to, the provisions of 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5-4.5-75.
      4.   Nuisance Declared: Any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this code or any ordinance of the village
shall be deemed a public nuisance and shall be subject to abatement by the
village.
         5.   Each Act A Separate Violation: Each and every act, action or
thing done in violation of the provisions of this code, or ordinance of the
village, shall be construed, deemed and taken as a separate and distinct
violation of such provisions of this code, and in every event that a violation
of this code, or any of the provisions hereof, shall continue, each day of such
continuance shall be deemed, construed, and taken as a separate and distinct
violation of the provisions of this code.
   B.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (1981 Code §§ 1.16.030, 1.16.040; amd.
Ord. 727, 12-21-1998; Ord. 913, 4-4-2011; 2012 Code; Ord. 1110, 11-20-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2012 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village Seal
1-5-1: VILLAGE SEAL:
The seal of the village shall be a seal in circular form with the words
"Village of Roxana, Illinois" in the outer circle, and in the interior of said
circle shall be an Indian head, and the same is adopted and declared to be the
seal of the village. (1981 Code § 1.08.010)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Terms Of Office
1-6-2: Village Board Meetings
1-6-1: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The term of office for the president of the board of trustees, trustee of the
village and village clerk shall be four (4) years; said four (4) year term to
begin on May 1 next following the date of election to said office and to expire
four (4) years thereafter on April 30. (Ord. 458, 4-6-1981; amd. Ord. 531, 4-
18-1988)
1-6-2: VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS:
Members of the public wishing to address the Village Board in connection with
its special and regular scheduled Village Board meetings shall be afforded the
opportunity to do so in connection with the rules established by the Village
Board herein. Individuals wishing to address the Village Board may do regarding
any item of business listed on the agenda for action by the Village Board
during the meeting for which the individual wishes to address the Board.
Individuals wishing to address the Board shall be included on the agenda listed
under the "Guests" section of the agenda format previously approved and
codified by the Village Board. The presiding officer shall impose a three (3)
minute limit at his/her discretion. Individuals who choose to be placed on the
agenda to address the Village Board shall, prior to the meeting at issue,
complete an informational card which shall include their name, address, phone
number and the item on which they wish to speak. The purpose of filing such
information shall be to assist with completion of the official record of
Village Board proceedings. Individuals shall be granted the opportunity to
address the Village Board to speak on any issue pending before the Board at
that meeting, which participation by the public shall be non-interactive with
the Board, and designed to provide a forum for the individual to address the
Village Board and speak in favor of or against issues of pending business. No
person shall interrupt, disturb or disrupt any regular or special meeting of
the Village Board. Upon direction of the presiding officer, any such person
shall be asked to leave the Board Chambers and the meeting place. If said
individual or groups of individuals persist in disrupting the Board
proceedings, the presiding officer may request that the Police Chief or his
designated representative to escort them from the meeting and building. (Ord.
1122, 5-6-2024)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Certain Appointive Positions
1-7-2: Compensation Of Certain Officials
1-7-3: Personnel Policies, Practices And Procedures Adopted
1-7-4: Employee Benefits
1-7-5: Participation In State Retirement Fund
1-7-6: Funds, Monies And Valuables To Treasurer
1-7-7: Compensation For Licenses And Certificates
1-7-1: CERTAIN APPOINTIVE POSITIONS:
   A.   Established: There are hereby established the following employment
positions in the village:
Administrative assistant.
Public safety director.
Public works director. (Ord. 779, 5-7-2001; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Appointments; Compensation: Appointments to such positions shall be by
the village president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
who shall set the salaries, compensation and benefits of any such employees.
   C.   Term: Unless otherwise stated at time of employment or subject to
written contract, appointment to such employment positions shall be for an
indefinite term. (Ord. 779, 5-7-2001)
1-7-2: COMPENSATION OF CERTAIN OFFICIALS:
   A.   Salaries: The monthly salaries of the following village officials shall
be as follows:
 
Village Official                                        Salary    Effective
President                                               $1,200.00 May 2017
President pro tem, in addition to the salary as trustee 100.00    May 2012
Clerk                                                   600.00    May 2012
Trustee                                                 600.00    May 2012
 
(Ord. 926, 5-2-2012; amd. Ord. 935, 10-15-2012; Ord. 987, 7-20-2015)
   B.   Benefits: The president, the president pro tem, the village clerk, and
the village trustees, referred to in subsection A of this section, shall not
receive village paid medical or life insurance as a part of their compensation.
The village officials stated herein shall be entitled to participate in the
Illinois municipal retirement fund and/or social security as allowed by law.
(Ord. 693, 9-16-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
1-7-3: PERSONNEL POLICIES, PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED:
   A.   The village board of trustees hereby adopts the policies, practices and
procedures as contained in the personnel policy handbook as attached to
ordinance 915.
   B.   To the extent that the matters covered in ordinance 915 differ from
those which may be contained in a collective bargaining agreement for
designated employees, the collective bargaining agreement shall prevail.
   C.   In other continuous and ongoing ordinances and resolutions, the village
addresses other employment related matters such as salaries and benefits.
Ordinance 915 is intended to supplement, but not replace, such ordinances and
resolutions.
   D.   Many of the policies herein are adopted in order to comply with federal
and state employment laws, rules and regulations. To the extent such laws,
rules and regulations are amended from time to time by the appropriate federal
or state government or authorized agency, such new requirements, where
applicable, shall prevail if in conflict with this code.
   E.   Each employee shall receive a copy of these policies.
   F.   Ordinance 915 does not constitute an employment contract. Rather, it
establishes a framework of policies and practices for governing benefits
between the village and its full and part time employees. Unless otherwise
specified in writing pursuant to a contract executed between the village and
the employee or an employee's collective bargaining representative, all
employees are to be considered "at will" employees with no expectation of
continued employment or continuation of established benefits. (2012 Code)
1-7-4: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:
The policies and practices regarding employee benefits as set forth and
approved in ordinance 915 are hereby adopted by reference as if set out at
length in this code. If the policies and practices regarding employee benefits
as set forth in ordinance 915 conflict with any other specific provisions of
this code or with any provisions of the laws of the state of Illinois, the
other specific provisions of this code or the specific provisions of the laws
of the state of Illinois shall prevail. (2012 Code)
1-7-5: PARTICIPATION IN STATE RETIREMENT FUND:
The president and board of trustees elect that the village participate in the
Illinois municipal retirement fund, effective January 1, 1962. (1981 Code §
2.48.010)
1-7-6: FUNDS, MONIES AND VALUABLES TO TREASURER:
   A.   All officers, departments, or agents of the village who receive any
funds or monies by virtue of their office or position shall deliver such funds
to the treasurer's office.
   B.   All officers, departments or agents of the village who receive any
funds, monies, or other things of value, by the virtue of their office or
position, shall keep account of all such receipts by entries on written or
printed form. A breakdown of the source of the funds, monies, or other things
of value received (such as permits, tags, ticket numbers and/or numbers or
descriptions) shall be included with the delivery of monies to the treasurer's
office. (Ord. 672, 4-3-1995; amd. 2012 Code)
1-7-7: COMPENSATION FOR LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certain employees, particularly in the Water and Street Departments,
obtain licenses and certifications for their jobs. Department directors, with
the approval of the President and Board of Trustees, shall, from time to time
determine which licenses or certifications apply. For each of these licenses or
certificates an hourly employee shall receive the bonus for the license or
certificate and for the predicate licenses or certificates as well.
      For example: if an employee is required to have a Class 1 license before
receiving a Class 2 license, the employee shall receive a bonus of twenty cents
($0.20) per hour upon gaining the Class 2 license. Each level of licenses or
certification received by an employee from the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency in Potable Water Supply Operations or Water Pollution Control
Operations will receive an additional ten cents ($0.10)/hour added to their
hourly rate.
      For example: The Class A Potable Water Supply Operation License will pay
an additional forty cents ($0.40) per hour. (The Class A License being the
highest level of certification). The Potable Water Supply License requires
operators to proficiency through three (3) other levels to obtain the A
License; and likewise with the Water Pollution Control Operator License.
   B.   The Class 1 License is the highest level of Certification and will pay
an addition forty cents ($0.40) per hour. All Full and Part time Firefighters
shall also receive additional pay in the amount of twenty-five cents ($0.25)
per hour for holding a valid Emergency Medical Service (EMS) License. (Ord.
1123, 5-6-2024)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Election And Term
1-7A-2: Oath And Bond
1-7A-3: Compensation
1-7A-4: Duties
1-7A-5: Deputy Clerk
1-7A-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The village clerk shall be elected and serve a four (4) year term and until his
successor is elected and qualified according to law. (2012 Code)
7-1A-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the village clerk shall
subscribe to the required oath and shall execute a bond in such amount and with
such sureties as may be required by the board of trustees, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties. (2012 Code)
1-7A-3: COMPENSATION:
The village clerk shall receive such compensation as established by the board
of trustees by ordinance. (2012 Code)
1-7A-4: DUTIES:
The village clerk shall:
   A.   Seal, Attest Documents: Seal and attest all contracts of the village
and all licenses, permits and such other documents as shall require this
formality.
   B.   Records Kept: In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the clerk is required by statute to keep, keep a register of all licenses
and permits issued and the payments thereon, and such other records as may be
required by the board of trustees.
   C.   Custody Of Documents: Be the custodian of all documents belonging to
the village which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
   D.   Personnel Files: Maintain the official personnel file of the employees
of the village. Access to those records shall be restricted as required by law.
   E.   Village Liaison: Act as the liaison on behalf of the village to the
various insurance agents and companies of the village.
   F.   Sign Checks: Sign checks for authorized expenses of the village.
   G.   IMRF Designated Agent: Act as the designated agent for the Illinois
municipal retirement fund and take such steps that are reasonably necessary for
that purpose.
   H.   Administer Tags, Permits, Etc.:
      1.   Administer the various tags and permits issued by the village
including animal tags and garage sale permits.
      2.   Administer and issue the permits for waste haulers and yard waste
bags or permits or stickers.
      3.   Receive applications for building permits and zoning waivers and
amendments; notify the appropriate persons of such applications; serve notices
for hearings for those applications; maintain a record of proceedings related
to those applications.
      4.   Receive applications for permits related to regional pollution
control facilities; notify the appropriate persons of such applications; serve
notices for hearings for those applications; maintain a record of proceedings
related to those applications.
   I.   FOIA Officer: Serve as the freedom of information act officer for the
village and successfully complete all state mandated training required in
connection therewith.
   J.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, perform
such other duties and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance or
otherwise assigned by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 780, 5-7-2001; amd. 2012
Code)
1-7A-5: DEPUTY CLERK:
   A.   Appointment: The Village Clerk, subject to advice and consent of the
Village Board of Trustees, shall be authorized to appoint one Deputy Clerk in
the manner provided and as authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-
30-10.
   B.   Duties: The Deputy Clerk may act in the stead and place of the Village
Clerk pursuant to authority granted by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-
95, and subject to the limitations set forth therein. The Deputy Clerk
appointed may only act in the absence of the Village Clerk from the place where
the Clerk's official office is maintained and only when either: 1) written
direction has been given by the Village Clerk to the Deputy Clerk to exercise a
power of the Office of Clerk; or 2) the Corporate Authorities for the Village
of Roxana have determined by resolution the Village Clerk is temporarily or
permanently incapacitated or otherwise inhibited from performing the duties of
said office. No additional compensation shall be paid by the Village to said
Deputy Clerk as part of the performance of duties as assigned and undertaken in
said capacity. (Ord. 1033, 11-5-2018)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-7B-2: Oath And Bond
1-7B-3: Compensation
1-7B-4: Duties
1-7B-5: May Serve As Collector
1-7B-6: Deputy Treasurer
1-7B-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the Office of Village Treasurer, an executive office of
the Village. The Treasurer shall be appointed by the President, with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees. (2012 Code)
1-7B-2: OATH AND BOND:
The Village Treasurer shall subscribe to the required oath of office and shall
give bond in such sum as may be required by the Board of Trustees; however, the
bond shall be in the amount of money that is not less than three (3) times the
latest Federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for Motor
Fuel Tax purposes. (2012 Code)
1-7B-3: COMPENSATION:
The Village Treasurer shall receive such compensation as may be set from time
to time by the Village Board of Trustees. (2012 Code)
1-7B-4: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The Village Treasurer shall perform such duties as may
be prescribed for him by statute or ordinance. He shall receive all money paid
to the Village either directly from the person paying the money or from the
hands of such other officer as may receive the money, and he shall pay out only
on vouchers or orders properly signed by the Village Clerk and the Village
President.
   B.   Deposit Of Funds: The Village Treasurer shall deposit the Village funds
in such depositories as may be selected from time to time as is provided by
statute, and he shall keep the Village money separate and distinct from his
own, and shall not intermingle his own money therewith or make private or
personal use of the Village funds.
   C.   Records Kept: The Village Treasurer shall keep such records showing all
money received by him, the source from which it was received, the purpose for
which it was received, and the purpose for which it was paid out; and he shall
keep a record showing at all times the financial status of the Village.
   D.   Books And Accounts: The Village Treasurer shall keep such books and
accounts as may be required by the Village Board of Trustees and shall keep
them in a manner required by law.
   E.   Reports Required: The Village Treasurer shall make monthly reports to
the Board of Trustees showing the state of the finances of the Village and the
amounts received and spent during the month, which reports shall be filed, and
he shall make an annual report at the close of the fiscal year with the total
amount of all receipts and expenditures of the Village and his transactions
during the preceding year. (2012 Code)
1-7B-5: MAY SERVE AS COLLECTOR:
The Village Treasurer shall act as and perform all the duties of Collector
unless a separate Collector is appointed and qualified to serve. (2012 Code)
1-7B-6: DEPUTY TREASURER:
The Village Treasurer may appoint, by and with the approval of the Board of
Trustees, a Deputy Village Treasurer who shall, in the absence of the Village
Treasurer, perform the duties of the Village Treasurer, and he shall hold
office for and during the term of Office of the Village Treasurer. (2012 Code)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Retaining Village Attorney; Compensation
1-7C-2: Powers And Duties
1-7C-3: Defendant Fee
1-7C-1: RETAINING VILLAGE ATTORNEY; COMPENSATION:
   A.   The president, with the consent of the board of trustees, may, from
time to time, retain one or more attorneys to represent or advise the village
on legal matters. The village attorney may likewise, with the consent of the
board of trustees, retain special counsel to advise or represent the village on
special matters or to assist the village attorney. (Ord. 575, 4-16-1990)
   B.   The village attorney shall receive a salary or retainer, plus
reasonable compensation for extra services that may be rendered. (Ord. 575, 4-
16-1990; amd. 2012 Code)
1-7C-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The village attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or
actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party, or in which it
may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the
village on behalf of the village or in the capacity of such person as an
officer of the village.
   B.   It is the duty of the village attorney to see to the full enforcement
of all judgments or decrees entered in favor of the village, and of all similar
interlocutory orders.
   C.   The village attorney shall be the legal adviser of the village and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting it, whenever requested to
do so by any village official. Upon request by the president or the board, the
village attorney shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
   D.   When two (2) or more attorneys have been appointed, they shall perform
such duties and responsibilities as may be directed from time to time by the
president and board of trustees. (Ord. 575, 4-16-1990)
1-7C-3: DEFENDANT FEE:
In all suits for the enforcement of any ordinance of the village or for the
enforcement of any statute or law of the state of Illinois or the United States
within the village limits which shall be prosecuted by the village attorney,
the defendant shall be assessed a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) which shall
be payable to the village. A separate fee shall be assessed for each offense
upon which a conviction or order of supervision is entered. (Ord. 521, 10-19-
1987, eff. 11-1-1987)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-7D-2: Oath And Bond
1-7D-3: Compensation
1-7D-4: Duties
1-7D-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of village collector, an executive office of
the village. The village collector shall be appointed by the president, with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The person appointed, approved
and qualified to serve as collector shall continue to serve until his or her
successor is appointed, approved and qualified to serve or until the office of
the collector is abolished by action of the board of trustees. (Ord. 1076, 5-3-
2021)
1-7D-2: OATH AND BOND:
The village collector shall subscribe to the required oath of office and shall
give bond in such sum as may be required by the board of trustees; however, the
bond shall be in the amount of money that is not less than three (3) times the
latest federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor
fuel tax purposes. (Ord. 1076, 5-3-2021)
1-7D-3: COMPENSATION:
The village collector shall receive such compensation as may be set from time
to time by the village board of trustees. (Ord. 1076, 5-3-2021)
1-7D-4: DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties: The village collector shall preserve all warrants
returned to the collector and shall keep books and accounts in the manner
prescribed by the board of trustees. All of the collector’s warrants, books,
and vouchers, and all papers pertaining to the office, may be examined at any
time by the president, village clerk, village treasurer, or any member of the
board of trustees. At least weekly, the collector shall pay over to the
treasurer all monies collected by the collector from any source, obtaining
adequate verification in the form of a treasurer’s receipt, and the collector
shall file a copy of the treasurer’s receipt immediately thereafter with the
village clerk.
   B.   Reports: When required by the corporate authorities or by ordinance,
the collector shall make a written report to the corporate authorities (or to
any officer designated by the corporate authorities) of all monies collected by
the collector, the account on which collected, or of any other official matter.
At least annually, between April 1 and 10 of each year, the collector shall
file with the village clerk a statement of: 1) all the monies collected by the
collector during the year; 2) the particular warrant, special assessment, or
account on which collected; 3) the balance of the monies collected on all
warrants in the collector’s possession; and 4) the balance remaining
uncollected at the time of return of all warrants that the collector returned
to the village clerk during the proceeding fiscal year. The clerk shall publish
the statement at least once, within ten (10) days, in one or more newspapers
published in the village or, if no newspaper is published in the village, then
one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the village.
   C.   Deposit Of Funds: The collector is prohibited from keeping the monies
of the village in his or her possession or in the possession of any person for
his or her use beyond the time prescribed for its payment to the treasurer.
   D.   Clerk As Collector: The village clerk may, by appointment of the
president, by and with the approval of the board of trustees, simultaneously
serve as the village collector. (Ord. 1076, 5-3-2021)
CHAPTER 8
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Department Created; Composition
1-8-2: Director Of Public Works
1-8-3: Division Of Streets And Refuse
1-8-4: Division Of Water Treatment
1-8-5: Division Of Wastewater
1-8-6: Division Of Building And Zoning Administration
1-8-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created an executive branch of the village government to be
known as the department of public works. The department shall be composed of
the director and such personnel as authorized by the village board of trustees.
(2012 Code)
1-8-2: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
director of public works, an executive office of the village. The director of
public works shall be appointed by the village president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees.
   B.   Bond And Oath: The director of public works shall execute, acknowledge
and deliver to the village a bond with good and sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the board of trustees, in such form, manner and sum as is or shall
hereafter be provided by law or by resolution of the board of trustees, and he
shall take the customary oath of office before entering upon the duties of such
office.
   C.   Duties:
      1.   The director of public works shall direct and supervise the public
works programs and projects, including the planning, funding, design and
administration of public improvements; review subdivision and development site
plans; investigate and resolve various organizational, citizen request/
complaint, and public infrastructure problems; and advise the president,
village board of trustees, and zoning board of appeals on all engineering
matters.
      2.   The director of public works shall further be responsible for the
overall administration of the public works, water, wastewater, utility, street,
refuse collection, maintenance and engineering departments; shall supervise all
public works office staff and monitor employee relations; and shall further
perform such other duties and functions as designated by the village board of
trustees from time to time. (2012 Code)
1-8-3: DIVISION OF STREETS AND REFUSE:
   A.   Division Created: There is hereby created a division of the public
works department to be known as the streets and refuse division. The streets
and refuse division shall be responsible for the daily operations of
maintenance of the streets, sidewalks, and rights of way within the village.
The division of streets and refuse shall further be responsible for the daily
operation of refuse collection and removal, nuisance abatement, animal control,
sanitary storm sewer collection system maintenance, and snow removal.
   B.   Street Superintendent: There is hereby created the office of street
superintendent. The office of street superintendent shall be filled by an
appointment by the village president, with the advice and consent of the board
of trustees. The person appointed as street superintendent shall be qualified
by education, training, and experience to supervise and direct the public works
employees assigned to the streets and refuse division in the performance of
their duties. The person appointed to the office of street superintendent shall
be a licensed water pollution control operator, properly registered with the
state of Illinois, and shall maintain his qualifications as such throughout his
tenure as street superintendent. The street superintendent shall be under the
direct supervision of and shall report to the director of public works.
   C.   Assistant Street Superintendent: There is hereby created the position
of Assistant Street Superintendent for the Village of Roxana. This position
will be filled by the concurrence of the Department Superintendent and the
Village President and may be modified as the needs of the Village require. The
Assistant Superintendent will be supervised by and report to the Department
Superintendent and Village Administration as required. The Assistant shall
perform all routine duties of the department on a daily basis, in addition to
helping the Department Superintendent with managerial duties or administrative
tasks as assigned. The Assistant Superintendent will be required and able to
assume all operational duties of the department in absence of the Department
Superintendent and available to direct any or all department operations as
required daily or on an emergency basis. Any compensation associated with the
position will be established by the Village Board through adoption of the
annual salary schedule. (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 1066, 7-20-2020)
1-8-4: DIVISION OF WATER TREATMENT:
   A.   Division Created: There is hereby created a division of the public
works department to be known as the water treatment division. The water
treatment division shall be responsible for the daily operations of the water
treatment plant, the distribution system and maintenance of the water furnished
by the village, and the water meter reading, billing and collection of fees for
all water provided by the village.
   B.   Water Treatment Superintendent: There is hereby created the office of
water treatment superintendent. The office of water treatment superintendent
shall be filled by an appointment by the village president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees. The person appointed as water treatment
superintendent shall be qualified by education, training, and experience to
supervise and direct the public works employees assigned to the water treatment
division in the performance of their duties. The person appointed to the office
of water treatment superintendent shall be a licensed potable water supply
operator registered with the state of Illinois and he shall maintain that
license in good standing at all times. The license held by the water treatment
superintendent shall be equivalent to the level as required by the Illinois
environmental protection agency to operate the municipal water treatment
facility. In the course and performance of his duties, the water treatment
superintendent shall operate and maintain all aspects of the village water
treatment system, including the distribution system, to the fullest extent
possible to ensure compliance with all applicable Illinois environmental
protection agency regulations as established from time to time. The water
treatment superintendent shall be under the direct supervision of and shall
report to the director of public works.
   C.   Assistant Water Superintendent: There is hereby created the position of
Assistant Water Superintendent for the Village of Roxana. This position will be
filled by the concurrence of the Department Superintendent and the Village
President and may be modified as the needs of the Village require. The
Assistant Superintendent will be supervised by and report to the Department
Superintendent and Village Administration as required. The Assistant shall
perform all routine duties of the department on a daily basis, in addition to
helping the Department Superintendent with managerial duties or administrative
tasks as assigned. The Assistant Superintendent will be required and able to
assume all operational duties of the department in absence of the Department
Superintendent and available to direct any or all department operations as
required daily or on an emergency basis. Any compensation associated with the
position will be established by the Village Board through adoption of the
annual salary schedule. (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 1066, 7-20-2020)
1-8-5: DIVISION OF WASTEWATER:
   A.   Division Created: There is hereby created a division of the public
works department to be known as the wastewater division. The wastewater
division shall be responsible for the daily operations and maintenance of the
wastewater treatment plant and the wastewater collection system, including all
pumping stations.
   B.   Wastewater Superintendent: There is hereby created the office of
wastewater superintendent. The office of wastewater superintendent shall be
filled by an appointment by the village president, with the advice and consent
of the board of trustees. The person appointed as wastewater superintendent
shall be qualified by education, training, and experience to supervise the
public works employees assigned to the wastewater division in the performance
of their duties. The person appointed to the office of wastewater
superintendent shall be a licensed water pollution control operator, properly
registered with the state of Illinois and shall maintain his qualifications as
such throughout his tenure as wastewater superintendent which shall be
equivalent to the level as required by the Illinois environmental protection
agency to operate the village wastewater treatment facility and collections
systems as may be required from time to time. The wastewater superintendent
shall operate and maintain all aspects of the wastewater systems of the village
to the fullest extent possible to ensure compliance with all applicable
Illinois environmental protection agency regulations as established from time
to time. The wastewater superintendent shall be under the direct supervision of
and shall report to the director of public works.
   C.   Assistant Wastewater Superintendent: There is hereby created the
position of Assistant Wastewater Superintendent for the Village of Roxana. This
position will be filled by the concurrence of the Department Superintendent and
the Village President and may be modified as the needs of the Village require.
The Assistant Superintendent will be supervised by and report to the Department
Superintendent and Village Administration as required. The Assistant shall
perform all routine duties of the department on a daily basis, in addition to
helping the Department Superintendent with managerial duties or administrative
tasks as assigned. The Assistant Superintendent will be required and able to
assume all operational duties of the department in absence of the Department
Superintendent and available to direct any or all department operations as
required daily or on an emergency basis. Any compensation associated with the
position will be established by the Village Board through adoption of the
annual salary schedule. (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 1066, 7-20-2020)
1-8-6: DIVISION OF BUILDING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Division Created: There is hereby created a division of building and
zoning administration. The division of building and zoning administration shall
be responsible for the enforcement of the building codes and zoning ordinances
adopted by the village, including the administration of applications and
issuance of permits required by building codes or zoning ordinances of the
village and all inspections related thereto.
   B.   Building And Zoning Administrator:
      1.   Office Created; Duties: There is hereby created the office of
building and zoning administrator. The building and zoning administrator shall
be responsible for the administration of the building and zoning ordinances of
the village including the establishment of procedures related to the
application for and issuance of permits required by the building codes and
zoning ordinances of the village. The building and zoning administrator shall
work with and assist the zoning board of appeals and the planning commission.
The building and zoning administrator shall be under the direct supervision of
and shall report to the director of public works.
      2.   Qualifications: The person appointed as building and zoning
administrator shall be qualified by education, training, and experience to
fulfill the duties of the office.
      3.   Assistants: The building and zoning administrator may recommend
individuals to be retained by the village to perform specific duties, such as a
plumbing inspector and an electrical inspector, necessary in the performance of
the duties of the building and zoning administrator. Any persons so recommended
must be appointed by the village president, by and with the consent of the
board of trustees, and before assuming office, the terms of their respective
compensation shall be presented to the president and board of trustees for
approval. All such inspectors or other persons retained to assist the building
and zoning administrator shall be under his direct supervision and control and
shall report to him. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Interpretation
1-9-4: Ethics Officer
1-9-5: Prohibited Acts
1-9-6: Penalties
1-9-7: Amendments
1-9-8: Severability
1-9-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2 of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the "act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to the extent
required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 922, 8-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 922, 8-
1-2011)
1-9-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 922, 8-1-2011)
1-9-4: ETHICS OFFICER:
The president shall appoint an official of the village, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, as ethics officer to fulfill those duties as
assigned to him or her by the statutes of the state of Illinois. The ethics
officer shall receive no additional compensation for his or her service as
ethics officer. (Ord. 922, 8-1-2011)
1-9-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
The following acts are specifically prohibited:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the village is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 922, 8-1-2011)
1-9-6: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 922, 8-1-2011)
1-9-7: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 922, 8-1-2011)
1-9-8: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act, as adopted by
this chapter, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 922, 8-1-2011)
CHAPTER 10
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-10-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-10-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-10-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-10-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-10-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-10-7: Superseding Policy
1-10-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the Village of Roxana, IL (Village) to prohibit
harassment of any person by any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal
employee or Municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All
Municipal officials, Municipal agents, Municipal employees and Municipal
agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person,
regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 1034, 11-5-
2018)
1-10-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   A.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person". (Ord. 1034, 11-5-2018)
1-10-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/himself
to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as
directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual harassment,
including the following:
   A.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing behavior
in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly express
her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the offending
behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent messages are
needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
   B.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
   C.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with
the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the Municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 1034, 11-5-2018)
1-10-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal
agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal
employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection
from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate
against an employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative
hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other
proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation 3 .
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights
violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate
against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in
good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has
made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within three hundred (300) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 1034, 11-5-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 3. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 4. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-10-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Ord. 1034, 11-5-2018)
1-10-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 1034, 11-5-2018)
1-10-7: SUPERSEDING POLICY:
This policy replaces all prior sexual harassment policies adopted by the
Village.
The provisions of this policy will apply only insofar as they do not conflict
with any State or Federal law. (Ord. 1034, 11-5-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created
2-1-2: Membership; Appointment
2-1-3: Term Of Office; Vacancies; Compensation
2-1-4: Organization; Records
2-1-5: Powers And Duties
2-1-6: Public Improvements
2-1-7: Land Subdivision Or Resubdivision; Official Map
2-1-8: Technical Advice
2-1-9: Powers Of Zoning Board Of Appeals
2-1-1: CREATED:
In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive village plan for the guidance, direction and control of the
growth and development or redevelopment of the village, a planning commission
is created. (1981 Code § 2.28.010)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) members, citizens of the
village, appointed by the village president, subject to confirmation by the
board of trustees, on the basis of their particular fitness for their duty on
the planning commission and subject to the approval of the board of trustees.
(1981 Code § 2.28.020; amd. 2012 Code)
2-1-3: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION:
In the event that a planning commission is established separate from and in
addition to the zoning board of appeals, the members of such planning
commission shall serve for a period of two (2) years. Vacancies shall be filled
by appointment for unexpired terms only. All members of the commission shall
serve without compensation; except, that if the board of trustees deems it
advisable, they may receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to time
by the board of trustees and provided for in the appropriation ordinance. (Ord.
571, 4-2-1990)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION; RECORDS:
Immediately following their appointment, the members of the planning commission
shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt
and later change or alter rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with village ordinances and state laws. The commission shall keep
written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times to public
inspection. (1981 Code § 2.28.040)
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees a comprehensive plan
for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village. The
plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts,
each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part
thereof, of Roxana. Such plan shall be advisory except as to such part thereof
as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the board of trustees.
There shall be compliance with all requirements for public hearing, filing of
notice of adoption with the county recorder of deeds and filing of the plan and
ordinances with the village clerk as provided by law. To provide for the
health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the village, such
plan or plans shall establish reasonable standards of design for subdivisions
and for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment
in respect to public improvements as defined in this chapter; and shall
establish reasonable requirements governing the location, width, course, and
surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service
facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, school
grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes, stormwater drainage,
water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and
treatment. The requirements specified herein shall become regulatory only when
adopted by ordinance.
   B.   To designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   C.   To recommend to the board of trustees, from time to time, such changes
in the comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary.
   D.   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees, from time to time,
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the
official comprehensive plan.
   E.   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, or parts
thereof, to further the making of such improvements and generally to promote
the realization of the official comprehensive plan.
   F.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public understanding.
   G.   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area. (1981 Code § 2.28.050)
2-1-6: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
The village clerk shall furnish the planning commission, for its consideration,
a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The planning commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the board of trustees.
(1981 Code § 2.28.060)
2-1-7: LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION; OFFICIAL MAP:
At any time or times, before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan, or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate
limits of the village. There shall be compliance with all requirements for
public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the county recorder of deeds,
and filing of the plan and ordinances, including the official map, with the
village clerk as provided by law. No map or plat of any subdivision or
resubdivision presented for the record affecting land within the corporate
limits of the village or within contiguous territory which is not more than one
and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits shall be entitled to
record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon provides for
standards of design, and standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways
for public service facilities, streetlights, public grounds, size of lots to be
used for residential purposes, stormwater and floodwater runoff channels and
basins, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection
and treatment in conformity with the applicable requirements of the ordinances,
including the official map. (1981 Code § 2.28.080)
2-1-8: TECHNICAL ADVICE:
If the planning commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice
or services, it may be done upon authority from the board of trustees and
appropriations by the board of trustees therefor. (1981 Code § 2.28.070)
2-1-9: POWERS OF ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
The zoning board of appeals is authorized and directed to exercise the same
powers, duties and responsibilities which this chapter grants to the planning
commission. In the event the zoning board of appeals is acting pursuant to this
chapter, the references to the powers, duties and responsibilities of the
planning commission shall be applicable to the zoning board of appeals. (Ord.
571, 4-2-1990)
CHAPTER 2
RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Created
2-2-2: Membership; Appointment; Terms; Vacancies
2-2-3: Qualifications; Compensation
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-5: Permit Use Of Village Facilities; Fees
2-2-6: Equipment And Furnishings
2-2-1: CREATED:
There is created a recreation board of the village to establish, conduct and
maintain a recreation system. (Ord. 505, 3-2-1987)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   The recreation board shall consist of five (5) members to be appointed
by the president, with the consent of the board of trustees.
   B.   The members of the recreation board shall be appointed for terms of
five (5) years or until their successors are appointed and have qualified;
except, that the members of the recreation board first appointed shall be
appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually
thereafter.
   C.   Upon a vacancy occurring on the recreation board, the village
president, with the approval of the board of trustees, shall appoint a
successor to serve for the unexpired term. (Ord. 505, 3-2-1987)
2-2-3: QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION:
Each member of the board shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age, a
citizen of the United States and a bona fide resident of the village. The
member shall receive no remuneration or pay for his services nor shall the
member be interested directly or indirectly in any contract in which the
recreation board shall be a party. (Ord. 505, 3-2-1987)
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The powers and duties of the recreation board are as
follows:
      1.   They shall, as soon as practical after the first Monday in May each
year, organize and choose a chair, secretary and treasurer from their number.
      2.   They shall originate a scheme of supervised playground activities in
and for the village.
      3.   They shall examine all suitable sites for playgrounds and recommend
the acquisition of such sites to the board of trustees that they deem in the
best interest of the village, to serve as a playground either by purchase or
lease.
      4.   They shall provide, maintain and conduct playgrounds and recreation
centers and the buildings thereon, which include the power to maintain, equip
and operate swimming pools. Should the recreation board maintain, equip or
operate swimming pools, they shall further provide for the sanitation of the
swimming pools and shall provide proper protection for the public in the use
thereof. They may charge and collect reasonable fees for the use of the
swimming pools to cover the cost of operation thereof.
      5.   The fiscal year of the recreation board shall correspond to that
established by the village board of trustees. The recreation board shall
prepare a proposed budget of their expenditures and submit that proposed budget
to the board of trustees who shall have the final power of approval of that
budget.
      6.   They shall be empowered to employ recreation leaders, center
directors, supervisors, recreation superintendents, or such other officers or
employees as they may deem proper.
      7.   They shall have the power to enter into agreements with any school
board, park district, park board or other governmental body, corporation or
individual to perform the duties and responsibilities which are otherwise
within the authority granted to the recreation board.
   B.   Reports:
      1.   Monthly Report: The recreation board shall, on the first Wednesday
of each month, submit to the village board a report of finances and activities
of the preceding month.
      2.   Annual Report: The recreation board shall annually, at the last
regular meeting of the recreation board during the fiscal year, and as often as
they may be required by the board of trustees, submit a report to the board of
trustees of their acts and doings throughout the year in which they shall set
out in detail their budget, all expenditures which they have made, and the
condition of the equipment, paraphernalia, etc., in their possession.
   C.   Additional Duties: The recreation board shall have such other and
further duties that may be delegated to them from time to time by the president
and board of trustees by ordinance, resolution or otherwise.
   D.   Powers And Duties Are Additional: The powers and duties authorized in
this section shall not be deemed to abrogate any powers and duties heretofore
given the recreation board, but are additional powers and duties conferred upon
the board. The recreation board shall further possess those powers and duties
authorized in division 95 of the Illinois municipal code, as presently enacted
or hereafter amended; provided, however, that the power to tax, issue bonds,
and merge or relinquish functions is specifically reserved to the president and
the board of trustees. (Ord. 505, 3-2-1987)
2-2-5: PERMIT USE OF VILLAGE FACILITIES; FEES:
The recreation board is authorized to permit village civic bodies, such as
churches, societies and other like organizations, to use the gymnasium and
auditorium when the same is not required by the activities of the board. The
recreation board may authorize and determine any fees to be charged for the use
of the gymnasium and auditorium. The village board is empowered to determine
from time to time what fees and expenses may be charged by the recreation board
for the operation of the gymnasium, auditorium and other village properties,
those funds being used to help defray the expense and operation of the village
facilities. (Ord. 505, 3-2-1987)
2-2-6: EQUIPMENT AND FURNISHINGS:
The recreation board is authorized and empowered to purchase out of available
funds suitable equipment and furniture to equip the gymnasium and auditorium.
The recreation board shall, as part of its annual report to the president and
board of trustees, submit an inventory of such items. (Ord. 505, 3-2-1987)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Fiscal Year
3-1-2: Dishonored Payments
3-1-3: Contracts And Purchases
3-1-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the Village shall begin on May 1 of each year and shall end
on April 30 of the following year. (1981 Code § 3.04.010)
3-1-2: DISHONORED PAYMENTS:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, the term "Village of Roxana"
includes the Village of Roxana and each of its subdivisions, departments or
commissions. (Ord. 764, 7-10-2000)
   B.   Fee:
      1.   Established: For each check, draft, money order, or similar form of
payment which is returned to the Village as unpaid for the reason that the
account is closed, insufficient funds, stopped payment or any other reason,
there shall be assessed a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each such financial
instrument. This charge shall also apply to other invalid offers of payment to
the Village, including, but not limited to, forged documents, unauthorized
credit charges or invalid wire charges. (Ord. 764, 7-10-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Fee Is Additional: The fee set forth in subsection B1 of this
section is cumulative to any other rates, fees, penalties and sanctions which
are otherwise permitted by law. The fee is also in addition to any actual
damages that may have been incurred by the Village arising from the financial
transactions described in subsection C of this section. If a higher fee is
allowed by State or Federal law, such higher fee shall, at the election of the
Village, apply.
   C.   Penalties, Interest And Fees Apply: Any financial instrument which is
returned as set forth in subsection B1 of this section shall be considered as
if no payment had been made to the Village. Thus, any penalties, interest or
fees which would have otherwise accrued shall continue to be calculated and
added to the outstanding balance of such account. The Village may revoke any
license or permit or discontinue any service that was paid by the returned
check or other financial instrument. (Ord. 764, 7-10-2000)
3-1-3: CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES:
   A.   Compliance With State Requirements; Emergencies: The Village shall at
all times comply with the requirements of the Illinois Municipal Code regarding
the amounts (presently $25,000.00) and the process of letting, bidding and
awarding contracts for any and all construction or public improvement projects,
and Municipal supplies. The Village may purchase supplies, personal property,
and services through a joint purchasing agreement as authorized by law and the
Illinois Governmental Joint Purchasing Act 1 . The Village shall comply with
the Local Government Professional Services Selection Act 2 . These provisions
may be waived in the event of a true emergency or where bidding is impractical.
(Ord. 1018, 12-4-2017)
   B.   Project Labor Agreement: The Village and its committees, departments
and agents shall henceforth, with respect to any project exceeding the amount
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), regarding the construction, alteration,
painting, or repair of its property, as a part of the specifications in regard
to such construction, alteration, painting, or repair of its property, require
that any successful bidder enter into the "Village of Roxana Project Labor
Agreement for Development and Construction" (or as hereafter amended) (attached
to the ordinance codified herein and marked as attachment 1), covering such
construction, alteration, painting or repair projects, unless the Village or
its committees, departments or agents make a written determination that,
because of the circumstances of a project in question, the benefits of not
requiring a project labor agreement substantially exceed the benefits of
requiring such a project labor agreement. (Ord. 836, 4-17-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 525/0.01 et seq.
2 2. 50 ILCS 510/0.01, et seq.
CHAPTER 2
INVESTMENT POLICY
SECTION:
3-2-1: Village Policy
3-2-2: Scope And Funds
3-2-3: Prudence
3-2-4: Objectives; Treasurer's Bond
3-2-5: Management Of Investment Program
3-2-6: Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest
3-2-7: Authorized Financial Dealers And Institutions
3-2-8: Authorized And Suitable Investments
3-2-9: Collateralization And Other Security
3-2-10: Safekeeping And Custody
3-2-11: Diversification
3-2-12: Maximum Maturities
3-2-13: Internal Control
3-2-14: Performance Standards
3-2-15: Reports Required
3-2-16: Annual Review Of Policy; Modifications
3-2-1: VILLAGE POLICY:
It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which will
provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while meeting
the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming to all state and local
statutes governing the investment of public funds. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff.
retroactive to 5-1-1999)
3-2-2: SCOPE AND FUNDS:
This investment policy applies to all financial assets of the village. These
funds are accounted for in the village's annual report and financial
statements.
   A.   Funds Enumerated: Funds include:
      1.   General fund (and accounts):
         a.   Executive and legislative.
         b.   Clerk.
         c.   Treasurer.
         d.   Street.
         e.   Police.
         f.   Public building.
         g.   Street lighting.
      2.   Special revenue funds:
         a.   Public improvement fund.
         b.   Recreation fund.
         c.   Motor fuel tax fund.
         d.   Refuse fund.
         e.   Municipal retirement and social security fund (these accounts may
be combined if permitted by the auditor):
            (1)   Illinois municipal retirement.
            (2)   Social security.
            (3)   Medicare.
         f.   Fire protection fund.
         g.   Audit fund.
         h.   Workers' compensation fund.
         i.   Unemployment and workers' compensation insurance fund.
         j.   Landfill special use fund.
      3.   Agency fund; payroll clearing account.
      4.   Water funds:
         a.   Water operation and maintenance fund.
         b.   Water special projects funds.
         c.   Water meter fund.
      5.   Component units:
         a.   Volunteer fire department.
         b.   Homecoming committee.
         c.   DARE fund.
         d.   Beautification fund.
   B.   Changing Funds: The funds described in subsection A of this section may
be amended by ordinance, including the ordinance approving a tax levy or an
ordinance approving the budget or appropriation.
   C.   Separate Accounts Not Required: The village treasurer is not required
to maintain a separate checking or banking account for each fund. One or more
funds may be combined in an account, with the balance of each fund being
identifiable, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. If
funds are combined, interest or other earnings on the account shall be
apportioned among the respective funds.
   D.   Investments May Be Designated For Certain Funds Or Accounts: Certain
funds or investments may be "earmarked" or designated as being reserved for a
particular fund, account or purpose. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to
5-1-1999)
3-2-3: PRUDENCE:
Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances then
prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in
the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment,
considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the probable income
to be derived.
   A.   Prudent Person: The standard of prudence to be used by investment
officials shall be the "prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the
context of managing an overall portfolio. The village treasurer (and other
investment officers, if any) who follows written procedures and the investment
policy and exercises due diligence shall not be personally responsible for an
individual security's credit risk or market price changes. In order to receive
this protection, the village treasurer (and other investment officers, if any)
shall: 1) report in a timely manner to the village president and board of
trustees when the return on investments or a change in the security of
investment from prior expectations has occurred; and 2) take appropriate action
to control adverse developments. If the treasurer proposes any written
procedures for the investment of funds that are different than described in
this policy, the village treasurer shall first present those policies to the
village president and board of trustees for approval.
   B.   Investments In The Name Of Village: All investments of the village
shall be in the name of the village. No investments shall be made in the name
of any individual person. If the name of the village treasurer (or other
investment officers, if any) is listed on any investment, the official status,
e.g., treasurer, shall be noted on the face of the investment.
   C.   Personal Accounts Kept Separate: The village treasurer shall not
combine his personal accounts or obligations with that of the village. (Ord.
747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1999)
3-2-4: OBJECTIVES; TREASURER'S BOND:
   A.   Objectives: The primary objectives, in priority order, of the village
investment activities shall be:
      1.   Safety: Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments of the village shall be undertaken in a manner
that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To
attain this objective, diversification is required in order that potential
losses on individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the
remainder of the portfolio. Also, in the interest of safety, depository
insurance or collateral shall be required where appropriate, and investments
shall be limited as set forth in this investment policy.
      2.   Liquidity: The village investment portfolio will remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the village to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
      3.   Return On Investments: The village investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a rate of return throughout budgetary
and economic cycles, commensurate with the village investment risk constraints
and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
         a.   Prompt Deposits 1 : When deposited funds are deemed collectible,
they shall be deposited within two (2) working days at prevailing rates or
better.
         b.   Interest Bearing Accounts Required: Unless waived by the village
president and board of trustees, all funds of the village shall be deposited in
interest bearing accounts. Waiving interest shall be done in very limited
circumstances, e.g., bank fees for an interest bearing account exceeding the
interest earned.
   B.   Bond Required: The village treasurer and any other person authorized to
deposit or withdraw the funds of the village shall be bonded. The amount of the
bond shall be at least one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the total
funds and revenue that the village is likely to receive or control within the
fiscal year. The village shall pay the cost of the bond. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000,
eff. retroactive to 5-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. Public funds deposit act, 30 ILCS 225/0.01 et seq.
3-2-5: MANAGEMENT OF INVESTMENT PROGRAM:
   A.   Authority: Authority to manage the village investment program is
derived from the following:
      1.   Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-1 et
seq. This includes, but is not limited to, 5/3.1-35-40 through 5/3.1-35-80.
      2.   Public funds deposit act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 225/0.01 et
seq.
      3.   Public funds investment act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 235/0.01
et seq.
      4.   Ordinances and resolutions of the village.
      5.   Motions that have been adopted by the village president and board of
trustees that are reflected in the minutes of the village.
   B.   Management Responsibility: Management responsibility for the investment
program is hereby delegated to the village treasurer, who shall establish
written procedures for the operation of the investment program consistent with
this investment policy. Procedures should include reference to safekeeping, PSA
repurchase agreements, wire transfer agreements, banking service contracts and
collateral/depository agreements. Such procedures shall include explicit
delegation of authority to persons responsible for investment transactions
consistent with this policy. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this policy and the procedures
established by the village treasurer. The village treasurer shall be
responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of
controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials. All of these
policies shall be consistent with this investment policy and shall be available
for inspection by the village president, board of trustees, village clerk,
village attorney, the auditor of the village and as otherwise provided in the
freedom of information act. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1999)
3-2-6: ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with proper execution of the
investment program, or which could impair their ability to make impartial
investment decisions. The village treasurer and investment officials shall
disclose to the village president and board of trustees any material financial
interests in financial institutions that conduct business within the village,
and they shall further disclose any large personal financial/investment
positions that could be related to the performance of the village, particularly
with regard to the time of purchases and sales. See also the public funds
investment act, 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 235/2(d) and the public officers
prohibited activities act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/3.2. These
statutes generally prohibit the investment of public funds where the corporate
authorities have a direct or indirect interest at the financial institution.
Also see the ethics code of the village. All investment decisions of the
village (including the village treasurer and other investment officers, if any)
shall comply with those acts, the ethics code and all other applicable laws.
(Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
3-2-7: AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS:
   A.   Approved Depositories: The list of approved depositories shall be
determined from time to time by ordinance. These institutions shall have the
appropriate insurance for their accounts, e.g., FDIC. Prior to approving these
depositories, the village shall receive the information required by law, e.g.,
financial reports and minority owner status as required by sections 6 and 7 of
the public funds investment act 1 .
   B.   Depositories And Agents To Provide Information: All financial
institutions and brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified bidders for
investment transactions must supply the village treasurer with relevant
financial information. This request may include, but is not limited to, the
following: audited financial statements, proof of National Association Of
Security Dealers certification, trading resolution, proof of state
registration, completed broker/dealer questionnaire, certification of having
read this investment policy and depository contracts.
   C.   Periodic Review Of Status: An annual review of the financial condition
and registrations of qualified bidders and depositories will be conducted by
the village treasurer. The depositories are required by law to provide the
village treasurer with copies of reports that are submitted to various federal
and state regulatory authorities 2 . The village treasurer shall report to the
village president and board of trustees any material information that may be
apparent in those reports that may affect the village's continued use of that
institution.
   D.   Financial Reports: The village treasurer may require a current audited
financial statement to be on file for each financial institution and broker/
dealer in which the village invests. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to
5-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 235/6, 235/7.
2 2. See, e.g., section 6 of the public funds investment act, 30 ILCS 235/6.
3-2-8: AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS:
   A.   Money Invested With Approved Depositories: The village treasurer may
deposit funds with the approved depositories. Money may also be invested with
the Illinois public treasurers investment pool 1  (IPTIP). Money may be
deposited with these institutions without prior notice to other village
officials.
   B.   Other Automatically Approved Investments: Money can also be invested in
United States treasury securities and bonds, notes, debentures or similar
instruments of the United States Of America without prior notice to other
village officials.
   C.   Conditionally Approved Investments: Prior to investing funds with the
following institutions or types of investments, the village treasurer shall
receive the approval of the village president and board of trustees: agencies
of the United States, investments as direct obligations of a bank as defined by
the Illinois banking act 2  (other than deposits to insured or accounts with
proper collateral as described in the ordinance approving depositories), short
term commercial paper obligations or money market mutual funds.
   D.   Changes In Depositories: The village treasurer shall periodically
report to the village president and board of trustees any changes in the
depositories being used. The report shall also include the amounts held by each
depository or entity holding an investment of the village. These reports shall
be given within twenty one (21) days of the change in depositories or the
transfer of funds between depositories. When a new depository is designated,
the village treasurer shall notify the sureties on its bond of that fact within
five (5) days before the transfer of funds 3 . (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff.
retroactive to 5-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 3. 15 ILCS 505/17.
2 1. 205 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
3 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50.
3-2-9: COLLATERALIZATION AND OTHER SECURITY:
   A.   Deposit Insurance: The village treasurer shall secure the maximum
available depository insurance for the accounts of the village. For example, if
different funds or accounts of the village can be viewed as separate insurable
entities, insurance shall be sought for each such entity.
   B.   Collateral Required For Excess Deposits: The village treasurer shall
obtain and maintain sufficient collateral for the value of the accounts that
exceed the limits of the deposit insurance. The written agreement for
collateral shall require that the institution provide securities, mortgages or
other approved means in an amount equal to at least the market value of the
funds exceeding the deposit insurance limitation. See section 6(d) of the
public funds investment act 1 ; see also the public funds deposit act 4 and
section 5/3.1-35-60(b) of the Illinois municipal code. In no event may the
investments of the village exceed the limits provided by law (e.g., 75 percent
of the capital stock and surplus of a bank, 75 percent of the net worth of a
savings bank or savings and loan association or 50 percent of the unimpaired
capital and surplus of a credit union, pursuant to subsections (a), (b) and (c)
of section 6 of the public funds investment act 1 ).
   C.   Collateral Or Security In Other Investments: If the village invests in
other types of investments, appropriate security or other collateral may be
required. The nature and type of security may vary depending upon the type of
investment.
   D.   Report Of Changes In Collateral: The village treasurer shall promptly
notify the village president and board of trustees of any changes in the nature
or type of collateral or changes in the amounts covered by deposit insurance.
(Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 3. 30 ILCS 225/0.01 et seq.
4 4. 30 ILCS 235/6(d).
1 1. 30 ILCS 235/6(a), (b), (c).
3-2-10: SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY:
All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village shall be conducted on a delivery versus payment
(DVP) basis. The village treasurer shall maintain safekeeping receipts for any
securities that are held by a third party custodian designated by the
treasurer. Certificates of deposit, securities, safekeeping receipts and other
original evidence of ownership of investments of the village shall be
maintained in a safety deposit box owned by the village or another secure place
such as the village safe. The village treasurer shall file with the village
clerk a current inventory of the safety deposit box, safe or other secure
place. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1999)
3-2-11: DIVERSIFICATION:
The village will diversify its investments by secured type and institution. The
approval of the village president and the board of trustees shall be required
if more than fifty percent (50%) of the village's total investment portfolio
will be invested in a single security type or with a single financial
institution. Such approval shall not be required for U.S. treasury securities
or authorized pools, e.g., IPTIP. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to 5-1-
1999)
3-2-12: MAXIMUM MATURITIES:
   A.   To the extent possible, the village will attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than twenty seven (27) months from the date of purchase. However, the
village may collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer dated
investments not to exceed five (5) years to maturity.
   B.   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding five (5) years if
the maturity of such investments is made to coincide as nearly as practicable
with the expected use of the funds. The records of the village shall indicate
the general or specific purpose for these types of reserves. (Ord. 747, 1-3-
2000, eff. retroactive to 5-1-1999)
3-2-13: INTERNAL CONTROL:
All funds, accounts, investments and procedures shall be subject to an annual
audit. In addition, the books and accounts of the village treasurer shall
always be available for inspection by the village president, any member of the
board of trustees, the village clerk, the village attorney, the auditor and as
otherwise required by the freedom of information act 1 . (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000,
eff. retroactive to 5-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40(a).
3-2-14: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   The investment portfolio shall be designed with the objective of
obtaining a rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles,
commensurate with the investment risk constraints and the cash flow needs.
   B.   The village has a passive investment strategy. Given this strategy, the
basis used by the village treasurer to determine whether market yields are
being achieved shall be the rates for certificates of deposits, money markets
and interest bearing accounts at the approved depositories. The village
treasurer shall periodically monitor these rates of return and compare them to
the current returns received by the village. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff.
retroactive to 5-1-1999)
3-2-15: REPORTS REQUIRED:
The village treasurer shall give, at least quarterly, to the village president
and board of trustees a market report on investment activity and returns, e.g.,
the rate of interest or other return on investment. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff.
retroactive to 5-1-1999)
3-2-16: ANNUAL REVIEW OF POLICY; MODIFICATIONS:
This investment policy shall be reviewed annually by the finance committee of
the board of trustees in consultation with the village treasurer and the
village president. The village president and board of trustees must approve any
modifications made to this policy. (Ord. 747, 1-3-2000, eff. retroactive to 5-
1-1999; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TAX REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE TAXES
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3-3A-2: Foreign Fire Insurance Tax And Board
3-3A-3: Electric Utility Tax
3-3A-1: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
   A.   Definitions: The definitions of those terms defined at 35 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 636/5-7 (as such statute may be modified, amended or updated)
are adopted by reference as if restated in full herein. Any future amendment to
that section shall be considered to have been adopted in full by reference.
"Municipality" shall refer to the village of Roxana, Madison County, Illinois.
   B.   Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions:
      1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or
privileges:
         a.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving
in the village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
         b.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving
in the village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection B1b, any taxpayer,
upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event,
shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by
this section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in
such other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
      2.   The tax imposed by this section is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
village.
   C.   Collection Of Tax By Retailer:
      1.   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
department in the manner provided by the department.
      2.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
   D.   Tax Returns: On or before May 31, 2010, and on or before the last day
of every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this section on
telecommunications retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to section 5-50 of the
Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax act 1  and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement the
act.
   E.   Resales:
      1.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to
be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. The applicant shall state facts which will show
the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by this
section on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional information
as the department may reasonably require.
      2.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication
tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the person's having discontinued the making of resales.
      3.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-50.
3-3A-2: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE TAX AND BOARD:
   A.   Tax Regulations:
      1.   Rate Of Tax: The rate of the tax to be paid as authorized by the
foreign fire insurance act shall be two percent (2%) of the gross receipts
received from fire insurance upon property situated in the village.
      2.   Payment And Use Of Tax: Such funds are to be paid to the foreign
fire insurance board and shall only be spent for the maintenance, use and
benefit of the fire department.
   B.   Fire Department Foreign Fire Insurance Board:
      1.   Established: There is hereby established a village fire department
foreign fire insurance board (department board), pursuant to sections 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-1 and 5/11-10-2.
      2.   Composition: The department board shall be composed of such officers
as the department board determines are necessary, but shall include a chair and
a treasurer. Each of the officers shall be elected annually by the members of
the fire department. All members of the fire department shall be eligible to be
elected as officers of the department board.
      3.   Rules And Regulations: The trustees of the department board shall
make all needful rules and regulations with respect to the department board and
the management of the monies to be appropriated to that board.
      4.   Secretary/Treasurer:
         a.   Bond: The secretary/treasurer of the department board shall give
a sufficient bond to the village board of trustees, which shall be approved by
the president, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties
as treasurer pursuant to law, this section and regulations to be established by
the department board.
         b.   Duties; Annual Audit: The department board treasurer shall
receive the appropriated monies and shall pay out the monies upon the order of
the department board for the maintenance, use and benefit of the fire
department. As part of the annual village audit, these funds shall be audited
to verify that the funds have been expended by that board only.
      5.   Records; Open Meetings: As a board established by the Illinois
municipal code and this section, the department board shall keep all of its
records with the village clerk and shall comply with the Illinois open meetings
act 1  in the scheduling of its meetings and the conduct of its affairs. (Ord.
876, 8-18-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-3A-3: ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rates: A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the
privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail
and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the village at the
following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Amount Of Electricity Used Price Per Kilowatt Hour
Or Consumed Per Month      (Cents)
Amount Of Electricity Used                         Price Per Kilowatt Hour
Or Consumed Per Month                              (Cents)
For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours                 0.3050
For the next  48,000 kilowatt hours                0.2000
For the next  50,000 kilowatt hours                0.1800
For the next  400,000 kilowatt hours               0.1750
For the next  500,000 kilowatt hours               0.1700
For the next  2,000,000 kilowatt hours             0.1600
For the next  2,000,000 kilowatt hours             0.1575
For the next  5,000,000 kilowatt hours             0.1550
For the next  10,000,000 kilowatt hours            0.1525
Electricity in excess of 20,000,000 kilowatt hours 0.1500
 
   B.   Effective Date Of Tax: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-2, the rates set forth in subsection A of this section shall be effective on
May 1, 2011, for residential and nonresidential customers. (Ord. 911, 2-21-
2011, eff. 5-1-2011)
   C.   Exemptions: None of the taxes authorized by this section may be imposed
with response to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the
extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the village;
nor shall any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, selling or transmitting or using or consuming electricity acquired
in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for those transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the municipal retailers' occupation tax act as authorized by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this
section be imposed upon any person engaged in business or on any privilege
unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in businesses of the same class in the village, whether privately owned
or operated or exercising the same privilege within the village. (Ord. 911, 2-
21-2011, eff. 5-1-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Tax Is Additional: The tax authorized by this section shall be in
addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its business.
   E.   Collection Of Tax:
      1.   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser.
      2.   This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is recoverable in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity. Any tax
required to be collected pursuant to this section and any such tax collected by
a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed to the village by
such person delivering the electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall
collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the village upon request.
      3.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser, the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
village in the manner prescribed by the village. On or before the last day of
each month, persons delivering electricity shall make a return to the village
for the preceding month and shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
village the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
   F.   Tax Remittance And Return:
      1.   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not
paid the tax imposed by this section to a person delivering electricity as set
forth in subsection A of this section and who is not otherwise exempted from
paying such tax shall make a return to the village treasurer for the preceding
month stating:
         a.   His name.
         b.   His principal place of business.
         c.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during the month
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of businesses
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed), with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   G.   Credits For Erroneous Payments: If it shall appear that an amount of
tax has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section,
whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount
shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section
from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts
erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited. No action to recover any amount of tax due under
the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three (3) years
after the due date of such amount. (Ord. 911, 2-21-2011, eff. 5-1-2011)
   H.   Violation; Penalties: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who
makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due 1 . (Ord. 911, 2-21-2011, eff. 5-1-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
ARTICLE B. TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Title
3-3B-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
3-3B-3: Definitions
3-3B-4: Notice Requirements
3-3B-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
3-3B-6: Application Of Tax Payments
3-3B-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-3B-8: Audit Procedure
3-3B-9: Appeals
3-3B-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
3-3B-11: Installment Contracts
3-3B-12: Statute Of Limitations
3-3B-13: Voluntary Disclosure
3-3B-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
3-3B-15: Review Of Liens
3-3B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES ORDINANCE and is mandated by the
legislature of Illinois as codified in 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et
seq. (2012 Code)
3-3B-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this article shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This article shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this article, this article shall be controlling. (2012 Code)
3-3B-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1  .
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village president or his designee who is charged
with the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the "local tax administrator" to act in the "local tax administrator's"
stead. The "local tax administrator" shall have the authority to implement the
terms of this article to give full effect to this article. The exercise of such
authority by the "local tax administrator" shall not be inconsistent with this
article and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village and not an agency or
department of the state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real
property under the property tax code or fees collected by the village.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Roxana, Madison County, Illinois. (2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
3-3B-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing and mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the
local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the person
concerned at the person's last known address; or
   B.   U.S. registered or certified mail. (2012 Code)
3-3B-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (2012 Code)
3-3B-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (2012 Code)
3-3B-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be one year after the end of the calendar year in which
payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of
locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who
has not paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear no interest. (2012 Code)
3-3B-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this article.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
forty five (45) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than forty five (45) days from the date the notice is given, unless the
taxpayer and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time.
In the event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in
question, the taxpayer may request another date (within the 45 days), approved
in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer (within 45 days) of
the village's determination of the amount given to the overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (2012 Code)
3-3B-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within thirty (30) days of receipt of the written protest
and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient
to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (2012 Code)
3-3B-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: Unless specifically provided in another duly enacted
ordinance, the village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to a specific rate percentage not to
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax due for the applicable
reporting period for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing
or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by
the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (2012 Code)
3-3B-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is ten (10) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have ten (10) days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer
fails to cure the delinquency within the ten (10) day period or fails to
demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
tax administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer. (2012 Code)
3-3B-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (2012 Code)
3-3B-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (2012 Code)
3-3B-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (2012 Code)
3-3B-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (2012
Code)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
SECTION:
3-4-1: State Regulations Adopted
3-4-2: Reimbursement Of Costs And Fees
3-4-3: Immediate Hazards; Authority Of Fire Chief
3-4-4: Costs And Fees A Lien
3-4-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Illinois hazardous material emergency response reimbursement act, currently
430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 55/1 et seq., is hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference, including the definitions contained within the act, currently in
section 3. (Ord. 01-794, 12-17-2001)
3-4-2: REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS AND FEES:
   A.   The "responsible party", as defined in the act, shall have the duty to
reimburse the village in a timely and reasonable manner for an emergency
response to a hazardous materials emergency incident on the part of the village
and any of its supporting agencies and other local governments, and for any
private contractor responding to the incident at the request of the village for
the costs incurred in the course of providing such emergency action.
   B.   Such costs and fees shall include replacement costs of materials, use
of materials, and reimbursement of salaries expended by the village, and shall
further include mutual aid departments used to assist in the handling or
mitigation of hazards. (Ord. 01-794, 12-17-2001)
3-4-3: IMMEDIATE HAZARDS; AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF:
The fire chief, or his designated representative, shall further have the right
to take immediate action to mitigate or abate immediate hazards, including the
seizure of property, the expenses of which shall be the responsibility of the
property owner. (Ord. 01-794, 12-17-2001)
3-4-4: COSTS AND FEES A LIEN:
If the costs associated with the aforementioned emergency response are not paid
to the village in a timely manner, the response, mitigation, and abatement
costs shall become a lien on the affected property. Affected persons and
property owners shall be notified of such lien as soon as possible. (Ord. 01-
794, 12-17-2001)
CHAPTER 5
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-5-3: Applicable Principles
3-5-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-5-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-5-6: Late Fees; Payments
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1. Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2. Event based charges for cable service or video service, including, but
not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3. Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4. Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5. Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6. Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7. A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8. Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service with respect
to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network, such as a "home
shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this definition.
      9. In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10. The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1. Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2. Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount
of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued authorization to
the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is attributable to cable
service or video service.
      3. Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4. The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5. Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6. Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7. Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 959, 11-18-2013)
3-5-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village of Roxana.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village Of Roxana: The holder shall notify the village of
Roxana at least ten (10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to
offer cable service or video service in the village of Roxana.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village of Roxana. The holder's liability for the fee shall
commence on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days
after receipt of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The
ordinance adopting this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the
address listed on the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401(b)(6) to the village of Roxana.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village of Roxana in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under section
2(b). (Ord. 959, 11-18-2013)
3-5-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 959, 11-18-2013)
3-5-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village of Roxana, including any
tax that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with
respect to cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
village's simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it
applies to any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued
authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to
payment of the local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
(Ord. 959, 11-18-2013)
3-5-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village of Roxana will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. 959, 11-18-2013)
3-5-6: LATE FEES; PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 959, 11-18-
2013)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: No Sale In Dry Areas
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
4-1-4: License And Compliance Required
4-1-5: Sale Of Liquor To Be Less Than Fifty Percent Of Business
4-1-6: Ineligibility For License
4-1-7: Application For License; Review
4-1-8: Examination Of Applicant
4-1-9: Insurance Requirements
4-1-10: Classification Of Licenses
4-1-11: License Fees And Number
4-1-12: Special Event Permit
4-1-13: Expiration Of License
4-1-14: Renewal Of License
4-1-15: Display Of License
4-1-16: Location Restrictions
4-1-17: Building And Premises
4-1-18: Hours Of Sales
4-1-19: Minors
4-1-20: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
4-1-21: Additional Restrictions And Prohibitions
4-1-22: Emergency Closures
4-1-23: Records Kept; Officials Notified
4-1-24: Enforcement And Penalties
4-1-1: NO SALE IN DRY AREAS:
No liquor license may be issued to any person or establishment located within
any area of the village that has voted to prohibit the sale of alcohol pursuant
to article IX of the liquor control act of 1934 1 . (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
This chapter shall be liberally construed, to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the people of the village shall be protected and temperance in
the consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered or promoted by sound and
careful control. The following words and phrases shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. The term does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%) or less of alcohol by volume.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A patriotic or veterans society organized under the laws of the United
States or the state of Illinois; or a corporation organized under the laws of
the United States or the state of Illinois but not for pecuniary profit, solely
for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of
alcoholic liquors kept, used and maintained by its members through the payment
of annual dues and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space in a building
of such extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable
and comfortable use and accommodation for its members and their guests and
provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and dining room space and equipment
and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking,
preparing and serving food and meals for its members and guests; provided, that
such club"files with the village president at the time of its application for a
license under this chapter two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of
its members and similarly files, within ten (10) days of the election of any
additional member, his name and address; and provided further, that its affairs
and management are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or
similar body chosen by the members at their annual meeting and that no member
or any officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or
indirectly receives in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits
from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of
the club or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club
which:
   A.   Is affiliated with a national club or organization and/or clubs or
organizations in all fifty (50) states; or
   B.   Maintains eating, golf and swimming facilities on club premises for the
use of members and their guests; or
   C.   Was chartered as a not for profit corporation prior to December 3,
1933, and regularly and routinely restricts admittance to the premises to
members of the club and their guests.
CONTINUOUS OPERATION: Operation of the licensed business for at least five (5)
hours a day for a period of at least five (5) days a week.
DISTRIBUTOR: Any person, other than a manufacturer, who is engaged in the
village in purchasing, storing, possessing or warehousing any alcoholic liquors
for resale.
HIM OR HE: Unless specifically required by the context of the language, shall
also refer to her or she. Further, the reference to he, him, her or she shall,
unless specifically required by the context of the language, include a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other applicable entity.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for sleeping accommodations of such guests and having
one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests; such
sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building
or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure
or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT: An act passed by the 58th Illinois general
assembly previously entitled "an act relating to alcoholic liquors, approved
January 31, 1934", as amended, see 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1.
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION; STATE COMMISSION: The commission created by
article III, section 1 of the Illinois liquor act 1 .
INTOXICATING LIQUORS: See definition of Alcoholic Liquor.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises described in the application for the license or
in the license as the place where the business is to be conducted.
LICENSEES: All persons who are owners or are in control of any place where the
sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on, whether they be
individuals, partners, corporations, joint stock companies, fiduciaries or
officers, directors, stockholders or employees, managers or bartenders.
MANAGER: A person employed by a licensee for the purpose of overseeing the
operation of a licensed business and exercising discretionary authority on
behalf of the licensee during the hours that the manager is on duty.
MINOR: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: A bottle, flask, jug, can, barrel, keg, hogshead or other
receptacle or container whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and labeled
by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any alcoholic
liquor.
PACKAGE SALES: The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, in
the original package, and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or in
part on the premises where sold.
RENTAL HALL BUSINESS: A business organized in such a way that it provides a
place available for rental by members of the general public. The building
housing the business must be designed to accommodate a minimum of two hundred
fifty (250) persons safely. Such a business is typified by wedding
celebrations, parties or dances by private clubs or individuals. In this type
of business, the lessor/licensee is paid a fee by the lessee for the use of the
hall and for providing alcoholic liquor.
RESTAURANT: Any public place having regular menus which is kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are
served, and where meals are actually and regularly served, such space being
provided with adequate and separate sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment
and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of
employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. In addition,
any business claiming to be a restaurant must document, upon demand, that fifty
percent (50%) or more of its gross receipts is derived from the sale of food as
distinguished from alcoholic liquor.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT WHERE THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS NOT THE PRINCIPAL
BUSINESS: Any establishment holding a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor
wherein more than fifty percent (50%) of its gross sales or revenues for any
calendar month in the preceding twelve (12) months is for items or services
other than alcoholic liquors.
RETAILER: A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: A transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means whatsoever,
for a consideration, and includes all sales made by a person, whether principal
proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
SELL AT RETAIL; SALE AT RETAIL: Sales for use or consumption and not for resale
in any form.
SPECIAL THEATER SITE: A theater, sports complex, or racetrack that has at least
one thousand (1,000) permanent seats.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
TO SELL: To solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for sale and to
keep with intent to sell.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as defined in this
section. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/3-1 et seq.
4-1-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Village President Serve As: The village president shall serve as the
local liquor control commissioner of the village and shall be charged with the
administration of the provisions of the liquor control act, of this chapter and
of such ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted by the village. The village president, with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees, may appoint a person or persons to assist him or her in
the exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties provided for such
local liquor control commissioner.
   B.   Compensation: The village president and village board of trustees may
establish and pay compensation to the local liquor control commissioner. If the
local liquor control commissioner is an elected official of the village, such
compensation shall be considered as the compensation of that elected official
and thus must be established prior to the term of that elected official as
otherwise provided by law. The village president and village board of trustees
may from time to time fix and pay compensation to the deputies, assistants or
employees of the local liquor control commissioner as may be deemed necessary
for the proper performance of the duties vested in them.
   C.   Powers, Duties And Functions: The local liquor control commissioner
shall have the following powers, duties and functions with respect to local
liquor licenses: (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
      1.   To impose a fine, assess costs, suspend for not more than thirty
(30) days or revoke for cause, all local licenses issued to persons or entities
for premises within his jurisdiction if he determines that the licensee has
violated any provision of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes or any valid village
ordinance, rule or regulation established by him or the state liquor
commission. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   To adopt rules and regulations for the conduct and operation of a
licensee's business which are not inconsistent with state law or this code.
      3.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of state law, this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by
him or by the state commission have been or are being violated, and at such
time, to examine the premises of the licensee in connection therewith.
      4.   To receive complaints from any citizen within his jurisdiction that
any of the provisions of state law, this chapter or any rules or regulations
adopted by him have been or are being violated and to act upon such complaint
in the manner provided by law.
      5.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
village treasurer.
      6.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, and to examine, or cause to be
examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee or
respondent; and to hear testimony and take proof for his information in the
performance of his duties and, for such purposes, to issue subpoenas which
shall be effective in any part of the state. For the purpose of obtaining any
of the information desired by the local liquor control commissioner under this
subsection C6, he may authorize his agent to act on his behalf.
      7.   Without notice or hearing, to order, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such conclusion, cause a licensed premises to be
closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to
be heard during that period, if the local liquor control commissioner has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community; except, that
if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or
businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such
other business or businesses. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
      8.   To notify the secretary of state where a club incorporated under the
general not for profit corporation act of 1986 1  or a foreign corporation
functioning as a club in the village under a certificate of authority issued
under that act has violated this chapter by selling or offering for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer's license.
      9.   To notify the secretary of state of any convictions or dispositions
of court supervision for a violation of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-20.
(2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq.
4-1-4: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either by himself or his agent, or any
person acting as agent, barkeeper, clerk or servant of another, to sell or
offer for sale at retail in the village any alcoholic liquor without first
having obtained a license so to do as provided in this chapter. It shall
likewise be unlawful for any such person to sell or offer for sale any
intoxicating liquors, alcoholic or malt or vinous beverages in violation of the
terms and conditions of such license. Each licensee shall comply with the
provisions of the Illinois liquor control act of 1934 1 . (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
4-1-5: SALE OF LIQUOR TO BE LESS THAN FIFTY PERCENT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   The total sale at retail of alcoholic beverages of a licensee shall be
less than fifty percent (50%) of the applicant's total sales at retail of all
products and services per calendar year at that site. This shall also apply to
applications for special events permits. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   The licensee shall have the burden of proof to show that it has
complied with this fifty percent (50%) rule. The licensee shall produce such
books and records required by the local liquor control commissioner for this
purpose, see 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-10.
   C.   The local liquor control commissioner may issue a new license to an
applicant if the commissioner determines that, given the type of business, the
applicant is likely to comply with this fifty percent (50%) rule during the
license period. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-6: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No license authorized by this chapter shall be issued to or maintained by:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the village, unless a person has been
designated to receive process and mail, as set forth herein.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the village.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen or legal resident of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the local liquor control commissioner determines that such person
has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering matters set forth in such person's application and any
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the village.
   J.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residency within the village.
   K.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or
organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign limited
liability company which is qualified under the business corporation act of 1983
1  or the limited liability company act 2 to transact business in Illinois. The
local liquor control commissioner shall permit and accept from an applicant for
a license under this chapter proof prepared from the secretary of state's
website that the corporation or limited liability company is in good standing
and is qualified under the business corporation act of 1983 or the limited
liability company act to transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A limited liability company, unless it is formed in Illinois, or unless
it is a foreign limited liability company which is qualified to transact
business in Illinois.
   M.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
   N.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of the liquor control act, or has forfeited his bond
to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   O.   A person who, individually or through agents or employees, has failed
to maintain order at the premises by the owner, staff or patrons, including,
but not limited to: 1) violations of the law relating to the manufacture, sale
and possession of alcohol; 2) incidents of physical violence or peace
disturbance; 3) sale or possession of controlled substances or cannabis; or 4)
violations of other laws and ordinances related to the health, peace, morals
and well being of the community.
   P.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   Q.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderman, or member of the city council or
commission, any president of the village board of trustees, or any member of a
village board of trustees having a direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor; except, that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that is not located within the village if the
issuance of such license is approved by the state liquor control commission.
   R.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   S.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
by, section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of the Illinois criminal code 3 , or as proscribed
by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   T.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles act 4  or the Illinois pull-tabs and jar games act 2
.
   U.   A person who is delinquent in the payment of any indebtedness or
obligation to the village. This includes any owner, shareholder, partner or
member of five percent (5%) or more of the enterprise, or any manager, officer
or director.
   V.   A person who has not complied with each and every business licensing
provision set forth in the ordinances of the village or the laws of the state
of Illinois or the United States.
   W.   A person who has not complied with and maintained a license or permit
for the sale or preparation of food as required by the county department of
public health or comparable agency.
   X.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21(a).
(Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 2. 805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.
3 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11), 5/28-1.1, 5/28-3.
4 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
4-1-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; REVIEW:
   A.   All applications for the license required by this chapter shall be made
in writing to the village president, or to the person designated by the village
president, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following information and statements:
      1.   The applicant's name and mailing address.
      2.   The name and address of the applicant's business.
      3.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the "assumed name" of the
business with the county clerk, and a copy thereof.
      4.   In case of a copartnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of an Illinois corporation, the date of its
incorporation; or in the case of a foreign corporation, the state where it was
incorporated and the date of its becoming qualified under the business
corporation act to transact business in the state of Illinois.
      5.   The name and address of the landlord if the premises is leased, and
the landowner if the premises is subject to a contract for deed; a copy of that
lease or contract shall be provided.
      6.   The date of the applicant's first request for a state liquor license
and whether it was granted, denied or withdrawn.
      7.   The address of the applicant when the first application for a state
liquor license was made.
      8.   The applicant's current state liquor license number.
      9.   The date the applicant began liquor sales at the place of business.
      10.   The address of the applicant's warehouse if the applicant
warehouses liquor.
      11.   The applicant's retailers' occupation tax registration number.
      12.   The applicant's document locator number on his federal special tax
stamp.
      13.   Whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of the
retailers' occupational tax, and if so, the reasons therefor.
      14.   Whether the applicant is delinquent under the cash beer law, and if
so, the reasons therefor.
      15.   In the case of a retailer, whether he is delinquent under the
thirty (30) day credit law, and if so, the reasons therefor.
      16.   Whether the applicant has ever had any previous liquor license
suspended or revoked, and if so, the reasons therefor.
      17.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a gambling offense
or felony, and if so, the particulars thereof.
      18.   Whether the applicant possesses a current federal wagering stamp,
and if so, the reasons therefor.
      19.   Whether the applicant, or any other person directly in his place of
business, is a public official, and if so, the particulars thereof.
      20.   The applicant's name, residence address, sex, date of birth, social
security number, position and percentage of ownership in the business; and the
name, sex, date of birth, social security number, residence address, position
and percentage of ownership in the business of every sole owner, partner,
corporate officer, director, manager and any person who owns five percent (5%)
or more of the shares of the applicant's business entity or parent corporations
of the applicant's business entity.
      21.   That the applicant has not received or borrowed money or anything
else of value, and that he or she will not receive or borrow money or anything
else of value (other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of
business for a period not to exceed 90 days as expressly permitted by state
law), directly or indirectly, from any manufacturer, importing distributor or
distributor, or from any representative of any such manufacturer, importing
distributor or distributor, nor be a party in any way, directly or indirectly,
to any violation by a manufacturer, distributor or importing distributor of
section 6-6 of the Illinois liquor control act 1 .
      22.   Proof that the applicant is insured for all losses under the
dramshop act, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21, and that the village will
be notified by the agent, broker or insurance company of any termination or
suspension of that coverage.
      23.   The name and address of the owner or agent that shall accept
notices and other service of processes by regular mail (or at the discretion of
the village, certified mail with return receipt requested or other method of
serving process as if it were a summons) as required by this chapter.
   B.   An application shall be filed at least eighty four (84) hours prior to
a regularly scheduled meeting of the board of trustees and shall not be granted
until at least one regularly scheduled meeting of the board of trustees has
occurred. Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, the local liquor
control commissioner shall promptly notify the board of trustees so that the
board of trustees may review and comment upon the application prior to the
local liquor control commissioner giving his final ruling. (Ord. 774, 12-4-
2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-6.
4-1-8: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
At any time during the pendency of an application, the local liquor control
commissioner shall have the right to compel the applicant to submit to any
examination and to produce any book or record that, in the judgment of the
local liquor control commissioner, is material to the determination of whether
the applicant is qualified to receive a license under the provisions of this
chapter, or whether the premises is suitable for such purposes. The local
liquor control commissioner shall also have the right to require the applicant
to answer any charges made in any objection to the issuance of the license or
made by the chief of police, prosecuting official or other elected official or
officer of the village. The failure of the applicant to appear at the time and
place fixed by the local liquor control commissioner for the examination or to
produce the books and records requested shall, unless for good cause shown, be
deemed to be an admission that the applicant is not qualified to receive a
license. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-9: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All persons or corporations issued a liquor license hereunder shall
provide evidence of dramshop insurance in an amount approved by the liquor
control commissioner. Said insurance shall be evidenced by a certificate of
insurance acceptable to the liquor control commissioner and delivered prior to
the opening of the establishment. The policy shall provide that the village
shall receive, from the insurance agent, broker or insurance company, written
notice of any cancellation or nonrenewal of such policy. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
   B.   No liquor license which includes as any part of the licensed premises
any public property shall be issued or renewed unless the applicant or licensee
shall provide a certificate of insurance showing dramshop coverage naming the
village as an additional insured with the licensee, in such amounts as may be
reasonably required by the village president. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012
Code)
4-1-10: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall be the following classes:
   A.   Class C-1: Class C-1 entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor in
the original package only, for consumption off of the premises of a retail
establishment where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business,
but shall not authorize consumption on the premises.
   B.   Class C-2: Class C-2 entitles the licensee to sell beer and wine only,
in the original package only, for consumption off of the premises of a retail
establishment where the sale of beer and wine only is not the principal
business, but shall not authorize consumption on the premises.
   C.   Class D-1: Class D-1 entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor, by
the drink or pitcher, as part of a restaurant business, for consumption on the
premises only.
   D.   Class D-2: Class D-2 entitles the licensee to sell beer and wine only,
by the drink or pitcher, as part of a restaurant business, for consumption on
the premises only.
   E.   Class G: Class G entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail for consumption on the premises by the drink or pitcher. A class G
license shall only issue to a golf course. Any business claiming to be a golf
course for purposes of this subsection must document, upon demand, that more
than fifty percent (50%) of its gross receipts is derived from golf related
activities, as distinguished from alcoholic liquor.
   F.   Class H: Class H entitles the licensee to sell, at a hotel, alcoholic
liquor at retail for consumption on the premises.
   G.   Class S-1: Class S-1 entitles the licensee to sell, at a "special
theater site", as defined in section
4-1-2 of this chapter, alcoholic liquor, by the drink or pitcher, at retail for
consumption on the premises.
   H.   Class S-2: Class S-2 entitles the licensee to sell, at a "special
theater site", as defined in section
4-1-2 of this chapter, beer and wine only, by the drink or pitcher, at retail
for consumption on the premises. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-11: LICENSE FEES AND NUMBER:
   A.   Annual Fees; Number Issued: The annual license fees and the number of
specific licenses authorized to be issued shall be as follows:
Class Of License Annual Fee Number Issued
Class Of License Annual Fee Number Issued
C-1              $1,200.00  1
C-2              600.00     0
D-1              1,200.00   0
D-2              600.00     0
G                1,200.00   0
H                1,200.00   0
S-1              1,200.00   0
S-2              600.00     0
 
(Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. Ord. 1026, 7-2-2018; Ord. 1032, 9-17-2018)
   B.   Proration Of Fees: The license fee for initial application shall be
prorated for each month or part thereof remaining within the calendar year.
   C.   Payment Of Fee; Refunds: The fees for licenses issued as provided in
subsection A of this section shall be payable in advance. All liquor license
fees, including renewals, shall be paid to the Village Treasurer and a receipt
therefor showing payment of such license fee shall be attached to every
application for a license or for the renewal of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor at retail. No application shall be considered, acted upon or granted
until and unless such application for such license has been filed with the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, or a person designated by the Commissioner,
and a receipt showing payment to the Village Treasurer of the license fee
required by this section to be paid therefor is attached to such application.
In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be refunded to
the applicant.
   D.   Authority To Limit Number: By separate ordinance, the Village may set a
limitation upon the number of licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail to be
issued for each classification of license. This restriction upon the number of
licenses shall not limit the right to the renewal of any existing licenses nor
to the issuance of a license to the purchaser of an established licensed
business as a going concern, but as licenses are revoked, expire without
renewal or for any reason cease to exist, then the total number of licenses for
each classification shall be reduced until the total of each such class shall
not exceed the number authorized by the Village.
   E.   Annexed Property: In the event that any establishment selling alcoholic
liquor is hereby annexed to and becomes a part of the Village, then the various
alcoholic liquor licenses as enumerated in this section shall be increased in
number only in the class which the annexed establishment(s) qualifies; and
provided further, that the annexed establishment holds a current valid liquor
license from the governmental entity from which said establishment was annexed
and from the State. If the liquor license of such an establishment selling
alcoholic liquor does not correspond to one of the classifications herein, the
establishment may continue only during the remainder of that calendar year of
the annexation. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-12: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit For Current License Holders: Upon application in form prescribed
by the Commissioner and investigation and payment of a permit fee of five
hundred dollars ($500.00), the holder of a Class D-1 or D-2 license may be
issued a permit to sell liquor as authorized by his classification outside of
the permanent structure of his premises under the following conditions: (Ord.
774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
      1.   Sales must be made on the licensed premises as defined in original
license application.
      2.   No sales will be permitted or consumption be allowed on any public
property.
      3.   Notification must be given at least fourteen (14) days prior to the
first day of the scheduled event.
      4.   The area used for special events must be enclosed or designated in
some manner to mark the boundaries for special events use.
      5.   No liquor of any nature may be removed from the enclosed or
designated boundaries for the special event.
      6.   The special events permit shall not exceed ten (10) days per
calendar year for any one licensed premises.
   B.   Nonlicense Holders: Upon application in form prescribed by the local
liquor control commissioner and investigation and meeting all requirements for
said event, a special events permit may be issued to the following nonlicense
holders: 1) village of Roxana (village sponsored event); 2) a not for profit
corporation or other not for profit organization; 3) religious organization; 4)
charitable organization; provided, however, that approval of a special events
permit to any of the foregoing nonlicense holders shall be approved as follows:
      1.   Use of public parks or other public property is prohibited.
      2.   Fees for nonlicensed holder special events permits shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per day.
      3.   The total number of such event shall not exceed ten (10) days per
calendar year. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
   C.   Costs Of Peace Officers: The local liquor control commissioner shall,
after consulting the chief of police, determine the extra costs of providing
peace officers at the special event. As a condition of receiving the permit,
the applicant shall pay an amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent
(125%) of such estimated costs. If such costs, as determined by the chief of
police, are less than the deposit, such excess shall be refunded to the
applicant within thirty (30) days following the event. A refund shall not be
required if the refund would be twenty five dollars ($25.00) or less. The chief
of police may consider written agreements that the applicant has for security
in reducing this required security fee. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-13: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
Each license required by this chapter shall terminate at the end of the
calendar year next following its issuance, except as otherwise provided, unless
sooner revoked as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-14: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for the renewal of a license shall be made in writing to the
village president at least fifteen (15) days prior to December 31 of each year.
The application shall also contain satisfactory proof, as determined by the
local liquor control commissioner, of the fifty percent (50%) alcoholic liquor
sales ratio. The renewal applicant shall file a new application each year.
(Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-15: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause his license issued under this chapter to be framed
and kept in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord.
774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-16: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Zoning: A license may only be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
at retail on premises zoned B-3 highway business district pursuant to the
village zoning ordinance. (Ord. 865, 5-5-2008)
   B.   Proximity To Other Uses:
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school other than an
institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or
for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station,
provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried
on, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor
on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where the
church or school has been established within such one hundred feet (100') since
the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the distance of
one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the nearest part of any building
used for worship services or educational programs and not to property
boundaries.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a retail
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor to a restaurant, the primary
business of which is the sale of goods baked on the premises, if: a) the
restaurant is newly constructed and located on a lot of not less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet; b) the restaurant costs at least one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) to construct; c) the licensee is the titleholder to the
premises and resides on the premises; and d) the construction of the restaurant
is completed within eighteen (18) months of the effective date of 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-11.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a retail
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if:
a) the primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food where
the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the applicant is a
completely new owner of the restaurant; b) the immediately prior owner or
operator of the premises where the restaurant is located operated the premises
as a restaurant and held a valid retail license authorizing the sale of
alcoholic liquor at the restaurant for at least part of the twenty four (24)
months before the change of ownership; and c) the restaurant is located seventy
five feet (75') or more from a school.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a license
to a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such
sales are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely
for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of
alcoholic liquors.
      5.   Notwithstanding any provision in this subsection to the contrary,
nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the issuance of a retail license
authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at a theater that is within one
hundred feet (100') of a church if: a) the church owns the theater; b) the
church leases the theater to one or more entities; and c) the theater is used
by at least five (5) different not for profit theater groups.
   C.   Change Of Location: Any license issued hereunder shall permit the sale
of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the local liquor control commissioner. No change of location
shall be permitted unless the proposed site for the new location is a proper
one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012
Code)
4-1-17: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
   A.   Sanitary Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor, or for the storage of such liquor for retail sale, shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with the
provisions regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of
food for human consumption.
   B.   Unobstructed View Of Premises: In premises upon which the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the premises is licensed, other than a
restaurant or hotel, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or other
thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed
premises, nor inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the
interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all
times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction nor any arrangement
of lights shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk, and said premises must be so located that there shall
be a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or
artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required
by the foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee, or by
him wilfully suffered to be obscured, or in any manner obstructed, then his
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order
to enforce the provisions of this subsection, the village president shall have
the right to require the filing with him of plans, drawings and photographs
showing the clearance of the view as required herein. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-18: HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   Prohibited Hours Generally: Except as provided in this section, it
shall be unlawful for any liquor licensee, or employee of such licensee, to
sell or offer for sale at retail, on the premises, any alcoholic liquor during
the following hours:
Monday through Saturday, 12:01 A.M. to 10:59 A.M. (i.e., open 11:00 A.M. to 12:
00 midnight).
Sunday, 12:01 A.M. to 11:59 A.M. (i.e., open 12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight).
   B.   Closed Hours:
      1.   The periods of time the sale of liquor is prohibited until the time
that liquor may again be sold shall be known as the "closed hours".
      2.   No patron shall remain or be permitted to remain or be admitted to
any licensed premises more than thirty (30) minutes after the sale of alcoholic
liquors is prohibited hereinabove for the remainder of the "closed hours"
described herein.
      3.   Consumption of liquor is prohibited, with exception, more than
thirty (30) minutes after the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this
section for the remainder of the "closed hours" described herein.
      4.   The doors of each licensed premises shall be locked, and no person
not in the employ of the licensee shall be admitted to or upon the premises
during the times when patrons are prohibited from being on the licensed
premises.
   C.   Businesses Offering Other Sales: Any licensed premises where the sale
of alcoholic beverages is not the principal business, which fact is certified
by the local liquor control commissioner in the manner provided in this
chapter, may remain open to the public during the hours that the public would
otherwise be prohibited from being on the premises, provided the following
conditions are observed:
      1.   All alcoholic beverages must be either removed from view or placed
behind doors, slides, screens, counters, shades, or other apparatus clearly
indicating that such beverages are not presently offered for sale.
      2.   A sign shall be displayed prominently and shall read: "Closed hours,
no alcoholic liquors sold or served".
      3.   No alcoholic liquors shall be sold, donated, bartered, exchanged,
served or consumed therein during said closed hours.
      4.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting any licensee
the privilege to sell alcoholic liquor during the aforesaid closed hours, and
any licensee not certified by the village president to be in fact a retail
establishment where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business
must keep its doors locked and the public barred therefrom during said closed
hours.
      5.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as requiring any adult
clerk in a licensed premises where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the
principal business to be limited in duties solely relating to the sale of
alcoholic liquor.
   D.   Election Days: On any election day, the hours of sale for liquor shall
be the same as those of the day as provided in subsection A of this section,
notwithstanding the scheduling of the election.
   E.   New Year's Eve: Any provisions herein to the contrary notwithstanding,
sales of alcoholic liquor, pursuant to class D-1, D-2, G, H, S-1 or S-2 village
liquor licenses, which are otherwise lawful under this chapter and state law,
shall, on each January 1, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. hereafter be authorized and shall not be a
violation of subsection A of this section. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-19: MINORS:
   A.   Employment: It shall be unlawful for any minor to draw, pour or mix any
alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises, and it shall be unlawful for
any minor to sell, serve or deliver alcoholic liquor in a licensed retail
premises, except under the following conditions:
      1.   The minor has attained the age of eighteen (18) years.
      2.   The minor is a bona fide employee of the licensed retail premises.
      3.   The licensee of the licensed retail premises or the manager or
another employee of the licensed premises who is over twenty one (21) years of
age is present on the licensed retail premises with the minor.
      4.   The license of the licensed retail premises is a class D-1, class D-
2 or class H, as said classifications are defined in section
4-1-10 of this chapter.
   B.   Presence On Premises:
      1.   No minor shall patronize, frequent or loiter in any establishment
deriving its principal business from the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises.
      2.   No licensee under this chapter, or his agent or employee, shall
suffer or permit any minor to remain in any room or compartment adjoining or
adjacent to or situated in the room or place where such licensed premises is
located; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to any minor
who is accompanied by his parent or guardian, or to any licensed premises which
derives its principal business from the sale of service or of commodities other
than alcoholic liquor.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a minor who is
a lawful employee of a licensed retail premises under the provisions of
subsection A of this section during the time such a minor is actually engaged
in such employment and to the extent necessary in connection therewith.
   C.   Misrepresenting Age: It is unlawful for any minor to misrepresent his
or her age for the purpose of purchasing or receiving alcoholic liquor in any
place in the village where liquor is sold, or to make an attempt in any manner
to purchase alcoholic liquor in the village.
   D.   Possession: No minor shall at any time have any alcoholic liquor in his
possession. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a minor who is
a lawful employee of a licensed retail premises under the provisions of
subsection A of this section during the time such minor is actually engaged in
such employment and to the extent necessary in connection therewith.
   E.   Notice Of "Sting Operations": The minimum notice for "sting
operations", as defined by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1, shall be
twenty four (24) hours. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-20: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No licensee under this chapter shall sell, give away or deliver, or allow the
same to be done, any alcoholic liquor or malt or vinous beverage to any minor
or to any intoxicated person, except as provided in 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/16.1. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-21: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Sales In Certain Retail Establishments Prohibited: No class D-1, D-2,
G, H, S-1 or S-2 license shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor at
retail, for consumption on the premises, in any confectionery, grocery store or
drugstore, or in any establishment commonly known as a "self-service" store
where patrons are permitted physically to select and reduce to possession goods
for purchase from open shelves or displays, making payment therefor upon
leaving the premises, or in any establishment where the patronage of persons
for the purchase of raw or unprepared food or medicines is solicited by signs,
newspaper advertising or other public announcement. A licensee may sell
prepared food upon the premises, but only when all food sold is consumed on the
premises by the purchaser thereof. Nothing in this subsection contained shall
be held or construed to forbid the sale by a registered pharmacist of alcoholic
liquor for medicinal purposes upon the prescription of a licensed physician or
surgeon.
   B.   Size Of Containers: It is hereby declared unlawful for any licensee, as
defined in section
4-1-10 of this chapter, holding any license to sell alcoholic liquor as therein
defined, to hereafter offer for sale at retail at any licensed premises, as
therein defined, any packaged goods container of beer or alcoholic liquor of
the size of thirty two (32) ounces or larger, which has been chilled or
refrigerated below the room temperature of the licensed premises.
   C.   Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   D.   Lewd Entertainment: No person licensed under this chapter shall permit
any employee, entertainer or patron to engage in any live act, demonstration,
dance, or exhibition on the licensed premises which:
      1.   Exposes his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
      2.   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance
of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or
pubic hair region; or
      3.   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
   E.   Curb Service: No curb service for the sale of alcoholic liquors shall
be permitted on or in connection with premises for which a license has been
granted for the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises,
either upon the public street or private property contiguous to such premises
so licensed. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-22: EMERGENCY CLOSURES:
In all cases where, in the opinion of the village president, or if the village
president is unavailable, the acting village president, the public peace or the
safety of any person is likely to be endangered by the keeping open of places
where intoxicating liquor is sold at retail or dispensed, it shall be lawful
for the village president or acting village president, without a hearing, to
close such place or places. Such proclamation shall state the reasons for such
closing, commanding and enjoining any or all persons so licensed by the
village, and their servants and agents, to neither sell, give away nor suffer
to be drunk any alcoholic liquors in or about their premises during the time
mentioned in said proclamation or order. In any event, no such emergency order
shall be valid beyond seven (7) days without a hearing granted to any affected
licensee. The chief of police may, at his discretion, order a licensed premises
to be closed without hearing for a period of twenty four (24) hours if the
premises constitutes a crime scene, and such closing could prevent the loss or
destruction of evidence and facilitate a police investigation, or if the
premises was the scene of a violent disturbance involving injury or threat to
citizens or the use of firearms. Such closing, and the reasons therefor, will
be documented by the chief of police and a report submitted to the village
president. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
4-1-23: RECORDS KEPT; OFFICIALS NOTIFIED:
The local liquor control commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all licenses issued hereunder and shall furnish the village clerk,
village treasurer and chief of police each with a copy thereof. Upon the
issuance of any new license or the revocation of any old license, the local
liquor control commissioner shall give written notice of such action to each of
these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action. (Ord. 774, 12-4-
2000)
4-1-24: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Revocation Or Suspension Of License: The local liquor control
commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued under this chapter for
any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or for any violation of
any state or federal law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor. Upon
revocation or suspension of a license, the licensee shall not be entitled to
any refund of any prepaid portion of the license fee. The local liquor control
commissioner may also impose a fine and assess costs incurred by the village in
connection with any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or for
any violation of any state or federal law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquor including proceedings related thereto.
   B.   Appeals: Whenever any order or action of the local liquor control
commissioner granting or refusing to grant a license, imposing a fine or costs,
revoking or suspending or refusing to revoke or suspend a license or refusing
for more than thirty (30) days to grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or
suspend a license is appealed, the appeal shall be limited to a review of the
official record of the proceedings of the local liquor control commissioner.
(Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Hearings: Any hearing by the local liquor control commissioner or
otherwise required by this chapter shall comply with the Illinois liquor
control act of 1934; see, e.g., 235 Illinois Compiled Statues 5/7-5.
   D.   Violations: It is unlawful to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter. In addition to any other remedy or penalty provided by law, the
offender shall be subject to fine, costs and other penalties that may be
provided for violation of the ordinances of the village. In the case of a
continuing violation, each day's continuance thereof shall be a separate and
distinct offense. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
   E.   Penalties And Costs:
      1.   In the event that the local liquor control commissioner shall find a
licensee guilty of violating any provision of this chapter, in addition to
license suspension, he may order the licensee to pay to the village any one or
more of the following: (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
         a.   A fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a first
violation within a twelve (12) month period, one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for a second violation within a twelve (12) month period and two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent violation
within a twelve (12) month period. Each day on which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense 1 ;
         b.   Reasonable attorney fees incurred by the village and/or the
liquor control commission; and
         c.   Reasonable costs, including court reporter fees incurred at the
hearing.
      2.   The aforesaid remedies shall be in addition to all other remedies
and penalties available to the village or the local liquor control
commissioner, both at law or in equity and not in lieu thereof. Any penalties,
costs or fees assessed under this subsection shall be payable upon the order of
the commissioner unless notice of appeal has been filed by the licensee, in
which case, payment is stayed until the final decision of a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000)
   F.   Public Nuisance Declared: In addition to any other remedy or penalty,
every lot, parcel or tract of land, and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment or place whatsoever, together
with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein
there shall be conducted any unlawful manufacture, distribution or sale of any
alcoholic liquor, or whereon or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed
or allowed any alcoholic liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold,
disposed of or in any manner used in violation of this chapter, is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided by the laws of
the state of Illinois. (Ord. 774, 12-4-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/7-5.
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
4-2-1: License Required; Application; Fees
4-2-2: Issuance Or Denial Of License; Nontransferability
4-2-3: Restrictions On License Holder
4-2-4: Revocation Of License
4-2-5: Exemptions From Provisions
4-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEES:
Each and every individual proposing to canvass, peddle or solicit from door to
door or on any public thoroughfare for the purpose of soliciting money or
support for any cause, or taking orders for merchandise, or advertising, shall
apply for a license with the village clerk during the clerk's regularly
scheduled business hours. All applicants shall apply for licenses at least ten
(10) days prior to the date set for the proposed activity, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays or holidays. Said application shall be accompanied by the payment of a
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each person acting or proposing to
canvass, peddle or solicit and an additional five dollars ($5.00) for each day
of intended solicitation. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988; 2012
Code)
4-2-2: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Upon receipt of application for a license, such investigation as shall be
deemed necessary in regard thereto shall be made, and if the chief of police is
satisfied that such canvassing or peddling is for a legitimate purpose and is
to be conducted lawfully by responsible and reliable persons, he shall so
certify to the village clerk, who shall then issue a license, which shall be
nontransferable. If the application is rejected, the applicant may appeal the
rejection to the village board of trustees. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord.
531, 4-18-1988; 2012 Code)
4-2-3: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE HOLDER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, organization, society, association
or corporation holding a license to advertise, represent, or hold out in any
manner that said license is an endorsement of said holder by the village;
provided, that it shall be lawful for a licensee to use, advertise and hold out
the fact of its license in the following words and no others:
   License No.      , Village of Roxana.
   B.   In the case where a residence or place of business exhibits a written
notice to the effect that peddlers, solicitors or canvassers are unwelcome, any
and all solicitors, peddlers and canvassers shall immediately and peacefully
depart from the premises. In the event that such notice is not observed and
there is no compliance therewith, any license holder shall have his or her
license revoked immediately.
   C.   No soliciting, peddling or canvassing shall take place prior to nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (local time) of any
weekday, or at any time on Sundays, national holidays or Illinois state
holidays. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
4-2-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The village president and/or the chief of police (or designated
officer) shall have the power to revoke any license that may have been granted
as herein provided.
   B.   If, upon the receipt of information or upon its own investigation, the
police department shall find that any license holder is misrepresenting or
making untrue statements with regard to the solicitation or the purpose
thereof, or has made untrue statements in the application, or that in any other
way the solicitation has been conducted or is being conducted in violation of
any part of this chapter, or in a manner inimical to the public welfare of the
community, then the chief of police, or his designated officer, or the village
president shall immediately revoke and cancel such license. (Ord. 462, 3-15-
1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
4-2-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to the sale or soliciting of orders for the sale
of milk, dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs, and other farm and garden
produce. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
CHAPTER 3
YARD SALES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Permit Required; Application
4-3-2: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit; Nontransferability; Display Required
4-3-3: Records Kept
4-3-4: Number And Duration Of Sales
4-3-5: Revocation Of Permit; Appeal
4-3-6: Penalty
4-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct a yard or garage sale without
first obtaining a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made
in writing to the police department and shall state the date, time, and address
of the proposed sale and the name of the person, firm, or corporation
responsible for the sale activity and for such other information as may be
required. (Ord. 667, 1-17-1995)
4-3-2: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; NONTRANSFERABILITY; DISPLAY REQUIRED:
If the police department is satisfied that the proposed sale is within the
provisions of this chapter, a permit shall be issued. The permit shall be
nontransferable and displayed in a prominent place at the premises of the sale.
If an application is rejected, it may be appealed to the village board of
trustees. (Ord. 667, 1-17-1995)
4-3-3: RECORDS KEPT:
A copy of all applications and permits issued by the police department shall be
forwarded to the village clerk for official record retention. (Ord. 667, 1-17-
1995)
4-3-4: NUMBER AND DURATION OF SALES:
No person, firm, or corporation shall sponsor or conduct any yard or garage
sale at a property zoned residential more than three (3) times per year. No
single residential location shall be the site for more than three (3) such
sales in any calendar year. The duration of any residential yard or garage sale
shall not be more than seventy two (72) continuous hours. (Ord. 667, 1-17-1995)
4-3-5: REVOCATION OF PERMIT; APPEAL:
The village president or the chief of police shall have the power to revoke any
permit that may have been granted as herein provided. The revocation of a
permit may be appealed to the village board of trustees. (Ord. 667, 1-17-1995)
4-3-6: PENALTY:
The penalty or penalties for violation of this chapter shall be in accordance
with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 667, 1-17-1995)
CHAPTER 4
ADULT BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: License Required
4-4-3: Application For License; Fees; Recommendations And Issuance
4-4-4: Contents Of Application
4-4-5: Renewal Of License
4-4-6: Location Restrictions
4-4-7: Premises Requirements
4-4-8: Prohibited Conduct
4-4-9: Sales Prohibitions And Restrictions
4-4-10: Hours Of Operation
4-4-11: Signs And Display Of Items
4-4-12: Inspections
4-4-13: Liability For Violations
4-4-14: Penalties
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words and
phrases used in this chapter which are not defined herein shall have the
meanings ascribed to such words and phrases in common usage.
ADULT BUSINESS: Any establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade or business activity in a use such as, but not
limited to, the following: adults only bookstores, adults only motion picture
theaters, adult entertainment centers, rap parlors, adults only cabarets or
adults only saunas, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual
activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: See definition of Adult Business.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER: An enclosed building, or part of an enclosed
building, which contains one or more coin operated mechanisms which, when
activated, permit a customer to view a live person nude or in such attire,
costume or clothing as to expose to view the human male or female genitalia;
pubic hair; buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; or female breast, at or
below the areola thereof. In addition, the viewing of a live person, in the
above described manner, after paying of any admission or fee for the viewing of
such activity.
ADULTS ONLY: Any items or activities emphasizing, depicting, describing or
relating to nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity.
ADULTS ONLY BOOKSTORE: A. An adults only establishment having, as a substantial
or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale
or viewing on the premises by use of motion picture devices or other coin
operated means, and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized
by their principal emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to
nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual
or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity.
ADULTS ONLY CABARETS: An establishment or place primarily in the business of
featuring topless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or
female impersonators or similar entertainers, where explicit sexual conduct is
depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or
tolerated.
ADULTS ONLY MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building used regularly and
routinely for presenting adults only material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to nudity, explicit
sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual or otherwise),
bestiality or sadomasochistic activity, for observation by patrons therein.
   B.   An establishment having adults only items as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock that sells or displays adult only items for
sale to patrons therein.
BOOTH: Any enclosure that is specifically offered to patrons of an adult
business for the private viewing of any adults only item or movie. This
definition does not include enclosures that are used as private offices by any
operator, employee or agent for attending to the tasks of their employment and
are not offered for use by the public.
CUBICLE: See definition of Booth.
DOOR: Full, complete, nontransparent closure device that obscures the view or
activity taking place within the enclosure.
NUDITY: The display of the human male or female genitalia; pubic hair;
buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; female breast, at or below the
areola thereof, with no covering or with less than fully opaque covering; or
male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, with or without covering.
OBSCENE 1 : Any material or performance is obscene if:
   A.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and
   B.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate
sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the
genitals; and
   C.   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
OPERATOR: Any person (whether said person is an individual, partner,
corporation, joint stock company, fiduciary, officer, director, stockholder,
employee, or manager) that conducts, maintains or owns any adult business.
PATRON: Any customer, patron or visitor to an adult business who is not
employed by any operator of said establishment.
RAP PARLOR: An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing
nonprofessional conversation or similar services for adults, where explicit
sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly
encouraged or tolerated.
ROOM: See definition of Booth.
SADOMASOCHISTIC ACTIVITY: Flagellation or torture by or upon a nude person; or
a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume; in addition, the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained with the
intent to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the recipient.
SAUNA: An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing a steam
bath and/or massage services, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or
sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
SELL: Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for sale
and to keep with intent to sell.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Ultimate sex acts (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual
or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity; in addition, physical
contact, intended to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the
recipient, with a person's unclothed genitalia, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic regions, or female breast.
UNDERAGE 2 : Any person under eighteen (18) years of age, the legally minimum
age at which one can purchase or view adults only items.
WALL SIGN: Any flat sign which is placed against a building or other structure
and attached thereto in such manner that only one side is visible. (Ord. 792,
12-3-2001; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
2 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
4-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to open, maintain, operate, conduct or
permit to be operated on, in or upon any premises in the village an adult
business without having first obtained a license from the village. (Ord. 792,
12-3-2001)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES; RECOMMENDATIONS AND ISSUANCE:
Every applicant for a license to open, maintain, operate or conduct an adult
business shall file an application in duplicate with the village clerk and pay
a nonrefundable filing fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The annual
license renewal fee shall be two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). The
village clerk shall refer copies of such application to the building
department, building and zoning administrator, police department and fire
department, all of whom shall inspect the premises and make written
recommendations to the village president within thirty (30) days of the
application date. The village clerk shall also forward a copy of the
application to the village president and to members of the board of trustees.
The village president shall either deny or approve said application within
sixty (60) days of the application date. (Ord. 792, 12-3-2001)
4-4-4: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
   A.   The applicant for an adult business license shall complete a verified
application. The information within this application shall apply to the
applicant and each of the following: any partner or limited partner of a
partnership applicant; any member or manager of a limited partnership; each
officer or director of a corporate applicant; and any stockholder owning more
than five percent (5%) of the stock of a corporate applicant.
      1.   Correct name, residential address and, if different, mailing
address.
      2.   Correct name and address of the business.
      3.   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
      4.   The applicant's name, residential address, sex, date of birth,
social security number, position and percentage of ownership in the business;
and the name, sex, date of birth, social security number, residential address,
position and percentage of ownership in the business of every sole owner,
partner, corporate officer, director, member, manager and any person who owns
five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the applicant's business entity or
parent corporation of the applicant's business entity.
      5.   All residential addresses for the five (5) years immediately
preceding the date of application.
      6.   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the five
(5) years immediately preceding the date of application.
      7.   All criminal or village ordinance violation convictions, orders of
supervision, forfeiture of bond and pleadings of nolo contendere on all
charges, except minor traffic violations.
      8.   The fingerprints and photograph of the applicant.
      9.   A statement of all similar businesses ever owned or participated in
by the applicant including a statement as to whether the applicant has ever
held a similar license or permit from any other county or municipality and
details of any revocation, suspension or official sanction of any such license
or permit.
      10.   The applicant's retailers' occupation tax registration number.
      11.   If applicable, a copy of the proof of filing with the county clerk
or the Illinois secretary of state of the "assumed name" of the business.
      12.   In case of a partnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of a corporation or limited liability company, a copy
of the articles of incorporation or certificate; in the case of a foreign
corporation or limited liability company, proof of authority to do business in
the state of Illinois.
      13.   The name and address of the owner or agent that shall accept
notices and other service of process by regular mail (or at the discretion of
the village, certified mail with return receipt requested or other method of
serving process as if it were a summons) as required by this chapter.
      14.   The name and address of the landlord if the premises is leased and
the landowner if the premises is subject to a contract for deed; a copy of that
lease or contract shall be provided.
      15.   A verification under oath of the truth and accuracy of the
application by an applicant or officer of a corporate applicant.
   B.   In addition to subsection A of this section, the applicant shall obtain
the information in said subsection A for each employee, manager or officer of
the applicant who will work on the premises. This information shall be given
under oath subject to the penalties provided for perjury. This information
shall be maintained at the site of the adult business within the village. This
information shall be available for inspection by law enforcement officials or
the village president (or his representative) upon demand during regular
business hours. (Ord. 792, 12-3-2001)
4-4-5: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for the renewal of a license shall be made in writing to the
village clerk at least sixty (60) days prior to December 31 of each year. (Ord.
792, 12-3-2001)
4-4-6: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
The use of property for an adult business can have a potentially harmful
secondary effect on surrounding areas and may have a deleterious effect upon
the use and enjoyment of adjoining properties. Such secondary effects can
include, but are not limited to, a tendency to attract an undesirable quantity
and quality of transients, to adversely affect property values, to cause an
increase in crime, especially prostitution, to contribute to the blighting or
downgrading of the surrounding neighborhoods and other areas, and to encourage
residents and businesses to move elsewhere.
   A.   Prohibited Locations:
      1.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated an adult business
within one thousand feet (1,000') of any of the following preexisting uses,
including preexisting uses located within or without the corporate limits of
the village:
         a.   Public or private elementary or secondary school.
         b.   Nursery school, preschool, or daycare center.
         c.   Cemetery.
         d.   Park, playground, or forest preserve.
         e.   Public housing.
         f.   Religious institution.
         g.   Adult business.
         h.   Any parcel or district that is zoned residential.
      2.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated an adult business
outside of the I-1 industrial district.
      3.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated an adult business in
any premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquor in the village.
For the purpose of this subsection, measurement shall be made from property
line to property line.
   B.   Amortization Of Existing Businesses: Any adult business lawfully
operating on the effective date hereof and that is in violation of subsection A
of this section shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use
shall be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed three (3) years,
unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a
period of thirty (30) days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be
increased, enlarged, extended or altered; except, that the use may be changed
to a conforming use. If two (2) or more adult businesses are within one
thousand feet (1,000') of one another and otherwise in a permissible location,
and the adult business which was first established and continually operating at
a particular location is the conforming use and the later established business
(es) is nonconforming.
   C.   Special Use Permit: Any person desiring to locate an adult business at
a location not prohibited under subsection A of this section or any other
provision shall be required to seek a special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of the village zoning ordinance. In addition to the general criteria
that must be established for a special use permit, the person seeking it shall
also establish he has complied with this chapter. (Ord. 792, 12-3-2001)
4-4-7: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
The use of booths, rooms or cubicles in an adult business can, by reason or
their design and intended use, facilitate the spread of sexually transmitted
diseases (both fatal and nonfatal). Insofar as the village has a substantial
governmental interest in protecting the public health, safety and welfare of
its citizens and all persons within the village, the following standards have
been propounded to eliminate the possibility of infection by contagious
sexually transmitted diseases:
   A.   All booths, rooms or cubicles for the private viewing of any adults
only items or movies shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   They must be totally accessible both to and from lighted aisles and
public areas of the adult business.
      2.   The bottom surfaces of any doors must measure at least forty two
inches (42") from the floor surfaces.
      3.   No surfaces intended for seating may be located therein.
      4.   No doors may be fitted with or obstructed by any lock mechanism or
other control type device.
      5.   They must be separated from adjacent booths, rooms or cubicles and
any nonpublic areas by a solid wall without any opening and extending from the
floor to a height of at least six feet (6').
      6.   They must be lit by light bulbs at least twenty five (25) watts when
the adult business is open for business.
      7.   All doors or openings must be sufficiently unobstructed such that an
operator, employee or agent may determine the number of persons within any
booth, room or cubicle.
   B.   Only one person shall occupy a booth, room or cubicle at any time, and
at no time shall the occupant therein engage in any type of sexual conduct
resulting in the discharge of any bodily fluids while within a booth or
cubicle.
   C.   All wall and floor surfaces must be of a light colored, nonabsorbent,
smooth texture that is easily cleaned.
   D.   All public areas of an adult business must be lit by light bulbs of at
least sixty (60) watts when the adult business is open for business.
   E.   All premises operated as an adult business shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with regulations issued
by the county health department or the Illinois department of public health.
   F.   Any adult business shall keep and maintain the premises equipped with
running hot and cold water, shall provide separate and adequate toilet
facilities for both males and females, and shall comply with all health,
sanitation, zoning, and inspection requirements of the village and the state of
Illinois. (Ord. 792, 12-3-2001)
4-4-8: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
The operator of any adult business shall neither participate in nor suffer or
permit any of the following prohibited acts to occur on the premises:
   A.   Sexual conduct, including, but not limited to, any demonstration,
dance, performance or exhibition on the licensed premises by any employee,
agent, entertainer or patron, where said person engages in any of the following
conduct:
      1.   Exposure of the genitalia, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic region; or
      2.   Exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitalia, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
or pubic region; or
      3.   Exposure of any portion of the female breast area below the areola
thereof; or
      4.   Performance or simulated performance of ultimate sexual acts or
explicit sexual conduct (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual or
otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity; or
      5.   Fondling of his or her own genitals or the genitalia of another
person.
   B.   Employment or use of the services of any person in or upon the premises
of the adult business while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume
or clothing so as to result in conduct prohibited in subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Admission of any underage patron into or upon the premises of the adult
business.
   D.   Patronage, frequenting or loitering of any underage person in any adult
business.
   E.   Allowance of any underage person to view, accept or otherwise possess
any adults only item on the licensed premises.
   F.   Employment or use of the services of any underage person in or upon the
premises of the adult business.
   G.   Drunkenness, fighting, unlawful games, riotous or disorderly conduct
whatsoever, in any premises kept or occupied as an adult business. (Ord. 792,
12-3-2001)
4-4-9: SALES PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obscene, Pornographic Materials 1 :
      1.   No operator, agent or employee shall knowingly sell, deliver or
provide, or offer or agree to sell, deliver or provide, any obscene writing,
picture, record or other representation or embodiment of the obscene.
      2.   No operator, agent or employee shall sell, deliver or provide, or
offer or agree to sell, deliver or provide, any obscene writing, picture,
record or other representation or embodiment of the obscene after recklessly
failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature
or content thereof.
      3.   No operator, agent or employee shall create, buy, procure or possess
obscene matter or material with intent to disseminate it in violation of the
ordinances of the village or state or federal statutes.
      4.   No operator, agent or employee shall advertise or otherwise promote
the sale of material represented or held out by him to be obscene, whether or
not it is obscene.
      5.   No operator, agent or employee shall knowingly sell, deliver or
provide, or offer or agree to sell, deliver or provide, any child pornography,
as defined by state or federal statute.
      6.   No operator, agent or employee shall create, buy, procure or possess
any child pornography with intent to disseminate it in violation of this
chapter or state or federal statute.
      7.   No operator, agent or employee shall advertise or otherwise promote
the sale of material represented or held out by him to be child pornography,
whether or not it is child pornography.
   B.   Minors:
      1.   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining an adults only
item, shall sell, deliver or allow any underage person to view said item.
      2.   If an operator, agent or employee believes or has reason to believe
that a sale, delivery or viewing of any adults only item is prohibited because
the prospective recipient is underage, said operator, agent or employees shall
(before making or allowing such sale, gift, delivery or viewing) demand
presentation of some form of positive identification containing proof of age,
issued by a public officer in the performance of his official duties.
      3.   An operator, agent or employee may refuse to sell, deliver or allow
any person to view any adults only item, where said person is unable to produce
adequate written evidence of identity and age by production of a document
issued by the federal, state or county government, or subdivision or agent
thereof, including, but not limited to, the following documents:
         a.   A motor vehicle operator's license;
         b.   An identification card issued by the Illinois secretary of state;
or
         c.   An identification card issued to a member of the armed forces.
      4.   Proof that the operator, employee or agent demanded, examined and
reasonably relied upon such written evidence listed in subsection B3 of this
section in any transaction forbidden by this chapter is competent evidence that
may be offered as an affirmative defense to a violation of this chapter. In
order to reasonably rely upon written evidence regarding a patron's identity
and age, an operator, agent or employee shall use the prudent judgment of a
reasonable and informed person, and shall scrutinize said written evidence of
age and identity by doing the following:
         a.   Determine if the physical description and photograph (if any) on
the document presented matches that of the presenting person;
         b.   Determine whether the plastic seal on the identification card is
intact or broken; and
         c.   In the case of an Illinois driver's license (or Illinois
identification card), determine whether the seventh and eighth digits in the
driver's license number (excluding the beginning initial) match the stated date
of birth located elsewhere on the driver's license.
If, from the foregoing, a reasonable person would or should doubt the
authenticity of the identification card, then the person offering the
identification must not be sold, delivered or allowed to view any adults only
items.
   C.   Unlawful Selling:
      1.   Any operator, agent or employee who shall give away or otherwise
make available any adults only item or viewing of any adults only item for the
purpose of evading any provision of this chapter, when the sale or viewing of
said adults only item is prohibited shall constitute unlawful selling.
      2.   Offers or agreements to sell, deliver, provide or allow the viewing
of any adults only item at or within any premises when the sale or viewing of
said adults only item is prohibited shall constitute unlawful selling.
      3.   The use of any other shift or device to evade any provision of this
chapter is prohibited and shall constitute unlawful selling. (Ord. 792, 12-3-
2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
4-4-10: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The unlimited operation of an adult business can, by reason of its intended
use, facilitate secondary effects including, but not limited to, prostitution,
disorderly conduct, performance of sexual acts or conduct in public, traffic
congestion and parking problems. Insofar as the village has a substantial
government interest in preserving the character and preventing the
deterioration of its neighborhoods and minimizing the disruptive effect of such
adult businesses on neighborhoods, the following limitations on operation times
have been propounded:
   A.   No operator, employee or agent of an adult business shall sell, deliver
or allow any person to view any adults only item except between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Mondays through
Saturdays, and on Sundays or recognized federal holidays from twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. The times referred to shall be either
Central Standard Time or daylight saving time, whichever is in effect at the
time in the state.
   B.   No operator, employee or agent of an adult business shall permit any
person to remain on the premises during the hours specified herein, and all
patrons shall vacate the licensed premises during the hours specified herein.
(Ord. 792, 12-3-2001)
4-4-11: SIGNS AND DISPLAY OF ITEMS:
The unregulated use of signs can result in secondary effects that create
dangers to the public in periods of high winds or inclement weather, defeat the
sign's informational or advertising functions as competitors escalate sign size
and expense to attract patrons, reduce the ability of the public to interpret
the intended message safely and quickly, and destroy the aesthetic quality of
the community. Insofar as the village has a substantial governmental interest
in these matters, all signs advertising or promoting the sale of adults only
items must meet the following restrictions:
   A.   All signs must be flat wall signs.
   B.   The amount of allowable sign area shall be as stated in the sign
regulations of the village.
   C.   No merchandise or depictions of adults only items shall be displayed in
window areas or any other area that may be viewed from a public street, alley,
public way or sidewalk located in front of the building.
   D.   A one square foot sign may be placed on the door to state the hours of
operation and adults only admittance.
   E.   All provisions of the sign regulations of the village shall control
except as clearly contradicted by this section. In the event the provisions
conflict, this section shall prevail. (Ord. 792, 12-3-2001)
4-4-12: INSPECTIONS:
Any adult business shall permit representatives of the police department,
health department (county or state), fire department, building and zoning
administrator or his designees to inspect the premises of an adult business for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter and with state statutes at
any time the adult business is open for business. (Ord. 792, 12-3-2001; amd.
2012 Code)
4-4-13: LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter by any employee or agent of any operator
shall be deemed and held to be the act of said operator if such act or omission
occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the operator.
(Ord. 792, 12-3-2001; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter by any employee or agent of any operator
shall be deemed and held to be the act of said operator if such act or omission
occurs as a result of the operator's negligent failure to supervise the conduct
of the employee or agent.
   C.   Such an offense shall be punishable in the same manner as if said act
or omission had been done or omitted by the operator personally. (Ord. 792, 12-
3-2001)
4-4-14: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fine: In the event that an operator, agent or employee of an adult
business is guilty of violating any provision of this chapter, said person may
be subject to a fine not to exceed the maximum permitted by law.
   B.   Each Day A Separate Offense: Any person violating the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to an offense for each and every day on which
such violation continues, and each day that the offense continues shall be
regarded as constituting a separate offense.
   C.   Injunctive Relief: Any prosecution for violations of this chapter does
not prohibit the village from pursuing injunctive relief or the state
attorney's office from pursuing criminal charges.
   D.   Public Nuisance Declared: Any premises, structure or site that is used
in violation of any of the terms and conditions of this chapter is declared to
be a public nuisance. Abatement of such nuisance may be done according to law
and shall be in addition to any other remedy. (Ord. 792, 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 5
PROHIBITED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Pawnshops And Pawnbrokers
4-5-1: PAWNSHOPS AND PAWNBROKERS:
Pursuant to the authority vested by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-42-5, no
person shall exercise or carry on the business of pawnbroker or operate a
pawnshop within the village. (Ord. 854, 7-16-2007)
CHAPTER 6
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
4-6-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
4-6-2: Enforcement
4-6-3: Penalties
4-6-4: Customer Credits
4-6-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the village's boundaries.
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 958, 11-18-
2013)
4-6-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village. (Ord. 958, 11-18-2013)
4-6-3: PENALTIES:
The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer.
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   B.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 958, 11-18-2013)
4-6-4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the
customer for the next billing cycle following the violation or following the
discovery of the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for
providing the credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the
credit. (Ord. 958, 11-18-2013)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES GENERALLY
SECTION:
5-1-1: Prohibited
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Specific Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-4: Nuisances Prohibited
5-1-5: Citizen Affidavit
5-1-6: Investigation; Complaint Upon Failure To Abate
5-1-7: Notice To Abate
5-1-8: Failure To Comply With Notice To Abate
5-1-9: Abatement By Village; Costs A Lien
5-1-10: Penalty
5-1-1: PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to create or cause any public nuisance within the
Village, and to permit any public nuisance to exist on any property that the
person owns, occupies, possesses or controls. Nothing in this Title 5 is
intended to interfere with the lawful reasonable business activities within
properly zoned areas or special business or residential activities specifically
permitted or granted a special use by the Village. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Title, the word public nuisance (“nuisance”) is hereby
defined as any activity, inactivity, neglect, omission, commission,
abandonment, inadvertent or otherwise, or the like, which does, or tends to,
permits, or results in a condition or conditions or circumstances which
deleteriously affects the public health, public safety, public welfare, public
sensibilities, public rights and enjoyment of residence or property, panders to
vicious tastes, creates attractive nuisances for minors, results in
dilapidated, abandoned and dangerous buildings or improvements or unfinished or
uncompleted improvements on real property, permits the growth of noxious or
poisonous weeds or growth and accumulation of trash dumps or the like or
suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
   A.   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, safety, general
welfare and/or economic welfare of others;
   B.   Offends decency;
   C.   Is offensive to the senses;
   D.   Interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, encroaches upon or
renders dangerous to the passage of motorized and non-motorized vehicles and
conveyances or pedestrian traffic on or in any street or highway right-of-way,
sidewalk, alley, stream, ditch, drainage way, commons, or other public
property;
   E.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   F.   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others. (Ord.
1068, 8-17-2020)
5-1-3: SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health, peace and
comfort of the public, for any person, firm, business, or corporation within
the limits of the Village to permit the following; but the enumeration of the
following nuisances shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   A.   Filth. To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth
or noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place, to
the prejudice of others.
   B.   Deposit of offensive materials. To throw or deposit any offal or other
offensive matter, or the carcass of any dead animal in any water course, lake,
pond, spring, well or common sewer, street or public highway.
   C.   Corruption of water. To corrupt or render unwholesome, or impure, the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake, well, public or private, to
the injury or prejudice of others.
   D.   Highway encroachment. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying
places.
   E.   Noxious odors. To erect, continue or use any building, residential,
commercial or otherwise, or other place for the exercise of any trade,
employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive
smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the health of individuals, or
of the public.
   F.   Unlawful advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on, or affixing them to fences or other private property,
or on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner, or if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities.
   G.   Harassment. To harass, intimidate or threaten any person who is about
to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property, or
is about to buy or lease, or has bought or leased a residence or other real
property, when the harassment, intimidation, or threat relates to a person’s
attempt to sell, buy or lease a residence, or other real property, or refers to
a person’s sale, purchase or lease of a residence or other real property.
   H.   Expectorate. To expectorate on any public sidewalk or street, or other
public building or floor or walk of any public vehicle or hall.
   I.   Litter on streets. To deposit or allow trash, paper, cardboard, wire,
dirt, rock, stone, glass, brick, lumber, wood or litter of material objects of
any size or description to fall upon the streets or right-of-way of the Village
from any moving vehicle, or to be thrown from a moving vehicle, or to throw
from a moving vehicle and to remain thereon.
   J.   Accumulation of junk and trash. To deposit or pile up any rags, old
rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, used lumber, derelict truck
trailers, camping trailers, or boats, appliances, construction materials,
demolition debris, ashes, garbage, refuse, plastic, brush, litter, weeds,
slush, lead, glass bottles, broken glass or any other junk and trash upon any
residential home lot, piece or parcel of land or upon any public or private
alley, street or public way within the Village.
   K.   Rodents, flies, mosquitoes, and/or other insects. To cause or permit
any condition or situation to exist that shall attract, harbor, or encourage
the infestation of rodents, flies, mosquitoes, and/or other insects, including
but not limited to, stagnant water present in bottles, cans, buckets, swimming
pools, tires, clogged gutters, etc.
   L.   Bringing nuisances into the Village. To bring into the Village or keep
therein for sale or otherwise, either for food or for any other purpose, any
dead or live animal or any matter, substance, or thing which shall be a
nuisance or which shall occasion a nuisance in the Village, or which may or
shall be dangerous or detrimental to health.
   M.   Offensive liquids. To keep nauseous, foul or putrid liquid or substance
or any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive, or
putrid, or permit any such liquid to be discharged, placed, thrown, or to flow
from or out of any premise into or upon any adjacent premises or any public
street or alley, or permit the same to be done by any person connected with the
premises.
   N.   Dense or offensive smoke. To cause or permit the emission of dense
smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other means so as to
cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof.
   O.   Scrap tires, both mounted and dismounted. To keep any scrap tires,
either mounted or dismounted, in open view, or so as to allow such tires to
accumulate stagnant water so as to provide a breeding ground for rodents,
mosquitoes, flies and other pests.
   P.   Accumulation of debris. To store, dump or permit the accumulation of
debris, refuse, garbage, trash, tires, buckets, cans, wheelbarrows, garbage
cans or other containers in a manner that may harbor mosquitoes, flies,
insects, rodents, nuisance birds or other animal pests that are offensive,
injurious or dangerous to the health of individuals or the public.
   Q.   Carcasses. To allow carcasses of animals to remain exposed for twelve
(12) hours after death, or to throw, or cause to be thrown, into any
watercourse, lake, pond, cistern, well, or common sewer, any dead animal or
animal matter.
   R.   Noise. To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or
private property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet
of any person residing in the vicinity.
   S.   Storing building and/or construction materials. To place, deposit or
store dirt, rock, brick, rubble or other similar used building materials on a
residential lot unless used for legitimate site development or landscaping.
   T.   Wrecked, salvaged or used materials, machinery, etc. To permit,
maintain, deposit, dump, abandon, burn, accumulate or store any type of any
wrecked, salvaged or used building materials; wrecked, salvaged or used
machinery, scrap and old iron, steel, chain, brass, copper, magnesium,
aluminum, tin, lead or other base metals, scraps of woolens, clips, bagging,
rubber and glass and empty bottles of different kinds and sizes unless said
material is used as part of the business operation at the location in a
properly zoned commercial or industrial site.
   U.   Appliances. To permit, maintain, deposit, dump, abandon, burn,
accumulate or store any type of appliances, including but not limited to,
refrigerators, bath tubs, stoves, air conditioners, dishwashers, hot water
heaters, wash machines, dryers, etc.
   V.   Upholstered furniture. To permit any upholstered furniture manufactured
primarily for indoor use, including mattresses, on any exterior property area
not fully enclosed within a structure.
   W.   Diseased vegetation. To keep or allow to remain on any premises any
trees, shrubs or other vegetation deemed by the Village arborist to be infected
with fungus or other diseases that will or might spread to other non-infected
trees, shrubs, or other vegetation.
   X.   Graffiti. To keep or allow in public view on personal or real property
any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word, diagram, sketch,
picture or letter, which incites violence by reference to gang or criminal
activity, depicts or expresses obscenity by referring to sexual activity or
contains defamatory material about a public or private person.
   Y.   Generally. To keep or allow on any premises any articles or things
whatsoever resulting in the injury, inconvenience, danger, detriment, or
annoyance of the public health, safety, or welfare. To commit any act which is
a nuisance, according to the criminal law of the State, this Code, common law
of the land, and/or made such by statute of the State. Nothing in this Title
shall be construed to prevent the corporate authorities of this Village from
declaring what shall be nuisances, and abating them within the Village limits.
(Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-1-4: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premise, or part
thereof shall be made, used, kept, maintained or operated in the Village if
such use, keeping or maintaining shall be dangerous or detrimental to the
health, safety, general welfare, and/or economic welfare of the citizens of
Village. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-1-5: CITIZEN AFFIDAVIT:
Any citizen of the Village may set forth in detail the violation, its location
and the name of the owner and occupant of the property in which such nuisance
is alleged, and may file the affidavit either with the police department or the
Village Building and Zoning Administrator. The police department or the
Building and Zoning Administrator shall then assign an individual to
investigate such charge and, if such nuisance exists, to issue a notice to the
owner(s) or occupant(s), or both, of the property, as provided in subsection
5-1-7 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-1-6: INVESTIGATION; COMPLAINT UPON FAILURE TO ABATE:
   A.   If a notice to abate is issued, pursuant to Section
5-1-5 above, immediately upon the termination of the time allowed in any notice
for the abatement of a nuisance, a peace officer of the Village or the Village
Building and Zoning Administrator shall investigate the property to determine
whether or not such nuisance has be abated.
   B.   In the event the owner or occupant of the property where such nuisance
exists has failed within the prescribed time to abate such nuisance, such owner
or occupant, or both, shall be subject to a fine for each day following the
date on which such nuisance was to be abated and continuing through the date on
which the nuisance was actually abated.
   C.   If the owner or occupant of the property already received its notice of
abatement for said nuisance during this calendar-year, as set forth in
subsection
5-1-7C, the owner or occupant of the property shall be immediately subject to a
fine for each day following the date on which such nuisance was observed and
continuing through the date on which the nuisance is actually abated. (Ord.
1068, 8-17-2020)
5-1-7: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection C herein, a peace officer of the
Village or the Village Building and Zoning Administrator, upon observing any
violation of this Chapter, shall issue a notice directed to the owner(s) of
record of the property or to the occupant(s) of the property, or to both, which
notice shall describe the violation and shall establish a reasonable time limit
for the abatement thereof by such owner or occupant, which time shall not be
less than two (2) days nor more than ten (10) days after service of such
notice.
   The notice to abate shall contain:
      1.   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      2.   Reasonable identification of the property where the nuisance exists;
      3.   A statement of what must be achieved in order for the nuisance to be
deemed abated;
      4.   The date by which abatement must be completed; and
      5.   A statement indicating that if the nuisance is not abated by the
date prescribed, the Village will abate the nuisance and assess the costs
against the property and/or impose a fine.
   B.   Any peace officer of the Village or the Village Building and Zoning
Administrator shall serve the notices provided in this Section upon the owner
(s) or occupant(s) of the property where the nuisance exists, or upon both of
them. The notices may be served either by United States mail, with postage
prepaid, addressed to the person at his last known address or by service in
compliance with the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure and the rules of the
Illinois Supreme Court. The person serving such notices shall make a return
showing the details of such service. The service date of the notices shall be:
      1.   Date of mailing;
      2.   Date of personal or abode service;
      3.   Date of receipt of certified or registered mail; or
      4.   Date of publication of the notice.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Village shall not be required to
send more than one (1) notice to abate per violation, per calendar year, to any
owner(s) or occupant(s) of the property, or to both, on which such nuisance
occurs. Any notice sent by the Village pursuant to this Chapter shall
constitute valid notice to the recipient for the remainder of the calendar year
to abate any and all of the aforementioned nuisances at the property. (Ord.
1068, 8-17-2020)
5-1-8: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE TO ABATE:
In the event the owner(s) or occupant(s) of the property where such nuisance
exists fails within the prescribed time to abate such nuisance, such owner(s)
or occupant(s), or both, shall be subject to a fine for each day following the
date on which the nuisance was to be abated and continuing through the date on
which the nuisance was actually abated. The Village shall not be required to
issue another notice where the condition or violation is at first abated, but
later resumed and/or repeated. Said notice shall constitute valid notice to the
owner(s) or occupant(s) at which it is directed to abate any and all identified
nuisances at the identified property for the remainder of the calendar year. If
any subsequent violations are observed at the property thereafter, the owner(s)
or occupant(s) of the property shall be immediately subject to a fine for each
day following the date on which such nuisance was observed and continuing
through the date on which the nuisance is actually abated. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-
2020)
5-1-9: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS A LIEN:
   A.   In addition to the power to levy a fine as set forth in Section
5-1-10, the Village police department, or someone acting under its direction,
shall be entitled to abate the nuisance in question after expiration of the
period given for the owner or occupant, or both, of the property containing
such nuisance to abate that nuisance. If no additional notice to abate is
required to be served, as set forth in Section
5-1-7C above, the Village shall immediately be entitled to abate the nuisance.
   B.   The costs of the removal, towing or storage of the nuisance shall be
assessed against the owner(s) or occupant(s) of the property, or both; these
costs being in addition to any fines, costs or fees which may be levied by the
Court.
   C.   Should the owner(s) or occupant(s), or both, of the property fail to
pay the costs incurred by the Village for the abatement of such nuisance within
fifteen (15) days after being presented with a statement for such costs, the
Village shall be entitled to file a lien against the real estate for such
costs. Such lien shall identify the real estate in a reasonably certain manner,
the amount of the lien and the owner(s) of the real estate. Further, the costs
of any towing, removal or storage for the abatement of any nuisance shall be
subject to such other liens on behalf of the persons who actually removed such
nuisances thereof as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-1-10: PENALTY:
In addition to the other remedies provided in this Chapter, any person who
owns, occupies or controls the parcel of real estate which maintains a nuisance
in violation of this Chapter commits an ordinance violation and shall be fined
a sum of not less than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Seven
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) for each offense; each and every day that the
property remains in violation of this Chapter constitutes a separate and
continuing offense for which an additional fine may be assessed for each day
that the nuisance continues to exist. The fines authorized in this Section
5-1-10 are in addition to any other penalties or remedies set forth in this
Chapter. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Container Requirements
5-2-2: Supervisory Authority For Collection
5-2-3: Rules And Regulations
5-2-4: Prohibited Acts
5-2-1: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
Each and every householder, business operator, or individual shall keep all
garbage, trash, rubbish, refuse and other material packaged and under control
so that the elements of nature or animals or people may not scatter the same,
and the containers for same shall be those approved by the Street Department.
The containers shall not be placed or kept on any public property, alley,
street, or other property of the Village. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-2-2: SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY FOR COLLECTION:
All hauling of trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, or other material similarly
constituted shall be done under the supervision and direction of the Village,
and all other types of collection and hauling of garbage, refuse, trash,
rubbish and other material shall be prohibited. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-2-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Village Board shall have the authority to make rules and regulations, and
to provide for the collection and disposition of refuse, trash, rubbish,
garbage and other material. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-2-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Removal Or Tampering With Solid Waste; Unlawful Disposal:
      1.   No person shall remove, obtain, collect, go through, take or tamper
with any waste, garbage, junk or property of another placed for collection in
any street or alley, along the curb or in the right of way of a residence,
business or government building.
      2.   No person who is not a resident of the Village shall dump, deposit,
place or bring into the Village any waste, garbage, junk or personal property
for collection by the Village or its agents at any location, whether at a
residence, Village collection point or any other location in the Village. This
Subsection shall not apply to persons bringing items to a landfill approved by
the Village and when all applicable fees have been paid.
      3.   Persons or corporations guilty of violating this Subsection shall be
subject to a fine of not less than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) and not more
than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Prohibited Burning
5-3-3: Permitted Burning
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS 1 :
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter unless the context of
this chapter clearly applies to the contrary. If possible, the following
definitions shall be used to supplement the definitions given in other parts of
this code:
AGRICULTURAL WASTE: Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated on a
farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices including such items
as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and crop residues but
excluding landscape wastes.
CLEAN WOOD BUILDING DEBRIS: The wooden remains of a building. The term excludes
rubber, asphalt and nonwooden materials.
DISASTER: A major disaster declared by the president of the United States or
the governor of Illinois.
DISASTER AREA: An area in which a major disaster has been declared by the
president of the United States or the governor of Illinois.
DOMICILE WASTE: Any refuse generated on single-family domiciliary property as a
result of domiciliary activities. The term excludes landscape waste, garbage
and trade waste.
GARBAGE: Waste resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking,
and consumption of food, and wastes from the handling, processing, storage, and
sale of produce.
HOUSEHOLD WASTE: Any solid waste (including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste
in septic tanks) derived from households (including single and multiple
residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters,
campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas).
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
MUNICIPAL WASTE: Garbage, general household and commercial waste, industrial
lunchroom or office waste, landscape waste, and construction or demolition
debris.
OPEN BURNING: A. The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
   B.   The term is also the combustion of any matter in such a way that the
products of the combustion are permitted to the open air without originating in
or passing through equipment for which a permit could be issued under section 9
(b) of the Illinois environmental protection act 2 .
REFUSE: Waste.
RESTRICTED AREA: The area within the boundaries of the village, plus a zone
extending one mile beyond the boundaries of the village.
SOLID WASTE: Waste.
TRADE WASTE: Any refuse resulting from the prosecution of any trade, business,
industry, commercial venture, utility or service activity, and any governmental
or institutional activity, whether or not for profit. The term includes
landscape waste but excludes agricultural waste.
WASTE: Any garbage, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility; or other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting
from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations, and from
community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved materials in
domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows, or
"coal combustion byproducts" as defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
3.135, or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits
under section 402 of the federal water pollution control act, as now or
hereafter amended, or source, special nuclear, or byproduct materials as
defined by the atomic energy act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 921) or any
solid or dissolved material from any facility subject to the federal surface
mining control and reclamation act of 1977 (Pub.L. 95-87), or the rules and
regulations thereunder, or any law or rule or regulation adopted by the state
of Illinois pursuant thereto. (Ord. 726, 12-21-1998; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 Ill. adm. code 237.101; 415 ILCS 5/3.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5/9(b).
5-3-2: PROHIBITED BURNING:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow open burning, except as
provided in this chapter. This prohibition on open burning includes, but is not
limited to, the open burning of agricultural waste, clean wood building debris,
domicile waste, garbage, household waste, landscape waste, municipal waste,
refuse, solid waste, trade waste and waste.
   B.   The Illinois environmental protection agency has issued many
regulations governing open burning (see, e.g., 35 Ill. adm. code part 237).
These regulations prohibit open burning of agricultural wastes within the
corporate limits of any municipality. The regulations also prohibit the burning
of landscape waste within the St. Louis metropolitan area, including the
village of Roxana. This chapter shall not permit any burning which is
prohibited by the Illinois environmental agency with properly adopted rules.
(Ord. 726, 12-21-1998)
5-3-3: PERMITTED BURNING:
The prohibition against open burning described in section
5-3-2 of this chapter shall not apply to the following (the person claiming the
exemption shall have the burden of demonstrating that an exception is
applicable):
   A.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when reasonably
necessary in the judgment of the responsible firefighter in charge of the
scene.
   B.   The setting of fires for training purposes, under the direct
supervision of the village fire department or when on the grounds of the Wood
River Refining Company under the direct supervision of a qualified member of
that company's fire department. These fires shall be subject to the permit
process of the Illinois environmental protection agency or other agency or
department as otherwise required by law.
   C.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational and cooking
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces; provided, that no garbage shall be burned
in such cases.
   D.   The burning of waste gases; provided, that in the case of refineries,
all such flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
   E.   A permit shall be issued by the fire chief to allow bonfires for
recreational purposes. The application for a permit shall include information
reasonably demanded by the fire chief including: date, location, sponsor,
volume of the materials to be burned, type of materials to be burned, degree of
adult supervision, and plans to extinguish the fire. The application shall be
filed at least two (2) weeks prior to the event. The maximum number of bonfires
shall not exceed two (2) per calendar year for each sponsor or each location.
The fire chief may impose reasonable conditions upon the bonfire for safety or
environmental purposes.
   F.   A permit shall be issued by the fire chief to allow bonfires for
commercial purposes. The application for a permit shall include information
reasonably demanded by the fire chief including: date, location, sponsor,
volume of the materials to be burned, type of materials to be burned, degree of
adult supervision and plans to extinguish the fire. The application shall be
filed at least two (2) weeks prior to the event. The maximum number of bonfires
shall not exceed ten (10) per calendar year for each sponsor or each location.
The fire chief may impose reasonable conditions upon the bonfire for safety or
environmental purposes. Bonfires for commercial purposes shall be permitted:
      1.   Only on land that is subject to an annexation agreement approved
after January 1, 1982;
      2.   The land is actually used primarily for agricultural purposes; and
      3.   That the agreement provides that agricultural activities existing on
that date of the agreement shall be permitted to continue until the actual
conversion of the land into a different use.
   G.   Burning for which a permit has been issued by the Illinois
environmental protection agency (see, e.g., 35 Ill. adm. code section 237.201).
   H.   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares and the like. (Ord. 726, 12-21-1998)
CHAPTER 4
NUISANCE GREENERY
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Height Restriction; Cutting Required
5-4-3: Notice To Abate
5-4-4: Abatement By Village; Responsibility For Costs
5-4-5: Lien Provisions
5-4-6: Liability Of Property Owner
5-4-7: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
          Shall mean and include all weeds, grass, plants, trees, bushes, and/or other
          vegetation present within the Village that is detrimental to the health,
          safety, general welfare, or economic welfare of the Village. This definition
          is intended specifically to include : (1) Any dead or dying tree, shrub, or
          other plant, whether located on Village owned property or private property;
          (2) Any otherwise healthy tree, shrub, or other plant, whether located on
          Village owned property or on private property, which harbors insects or
          diseases which reasonably may be expected to injure or harm any other tree,
          shrub, or plant; (3) Any tree, shrub, or other plant or portion thereof,
NUISANCE  whether located on Village owned property or private property, which by
GREENERY: reason of location or condition constitutes an imminent danger to the health,
          safety, or welfare of the general public; (4) Any tree, shrub or other plant
          or portion thereof, whether located on Village owned property or on private
          property, which obstructs the free passage of pedestrian or vehicular traffic
          or which obstructs a street sign, streetlight or regulatory sign on Village
          owned property; and (5) Any tree, shrub or other plant or portion thereof,
          whether located on Village owned property or on private property, which
          dangerously obstructs the safe and plain view of pedestrian or vehicular
          traffic as such may be determined by the Director of Public Safety,
          specifically including any such vegetation planted within 5 feet parallel or
          perpendicular to any intersection along village right of way.
          Includes, but is not limited to, the following: burdock, ragweed (giant),
          ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain, common milkweed,
          wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed, lamb’s quarters, wild
WEEDS:    lettuce, curled dock, smart weeds (all varieties), poison hemlock, wild hemp,
          grasses which have reached a height in excess of eight inches (8"), and any
          noxious weeds as defined by the Illinois noxious weed law, 505 ILCS 100/1 et
          al., as presently enacted or hereafter amended. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
 
5-4-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTION; CUTTING REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass, or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the Village. Any such weeds, grass, or
plants exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance and nuisance
greenery. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-4-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Upon the Village determining that any parcel of real estate within the
Village has weeds or grass which exceeds a height of eight inches (8") in
violation of this Chapter or otherwise is the subject of Nuisance Greenery, a
notice shall be served upon the owner of record or controlling persons of such
parcel of real estate demanding that such weeds or grass be cut or other
nuisance abated within five (5) days of the date of the notice. However, in no
case shall the Village be required to send more than one (1) notice to abate
per calendar year to any owner of record or controlling persons of such parcel
of real estate, including but not limited to any lessee(s) or occupant(s), in
violation of this Chapter. Any notice sent by the Village pursuant to this
Chapter shall constitute valid notice to the recipient for the remainder of the
calendar year to abate any and all of the aforementioned nuisances at the
property.
   B.   The person serving such notice shall make a return showing the details
of such service. The date of the notice shall be:
      1.   Date of mailing;
      2.   Date of personal or abode service;
      3.   Date of receipt of certified or registered mail; or
      4.   Date of publication of the notice. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-4-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   Abatement By Village: Should the owner or controlling person of any
parcel of real estate which has been the subject of a notice and demand to cut
weeds or grass or otherwise abate a nuisance as set forth in Section
5-4-3 refuse or neglect to cut the grass or weeds as demanded, or abate
Nuisance Greenery, the Village, or a person acting on its behalf, shall cut or
remove such weeds or grass or otherwise abate said nuisance. If notice to abate
has already been served on the owner or controlling person of any parcel of
real estate during the calendar year, as set forth in Section
5-4-3, the Village may immediately remove or cut weeds or grass at the property
that remains in violation of the Code.
   B.   Responsibility For Costs:
      1.   For each parcel of real estate which is subject to the terms and
conditions of this Chapter and for which the Village, or a person acting on its
behalf, has cut or removed the weeds or grass upon the real estate, or
otherwise abated Nuisance Greenery, the owner and each controlling person of
that real estate shall be jointly and severally liable to the Village for the
costs and expenses incurred in cutting and removing such weeds, grass or
Nuisance Greenery. The minimum fee to be charged by the Village for each parcel
of real estate shall be the actual cost of cutting, plus an administrative fee
of Seventy Five Dollars ($75.00). Where the weeds and grass are cut and
removed, or Nuisance Greenery abated by the Village rather than by contractor
acting on its behalf, the minimum cost of removal shall be presumed to be
Seventy Five Dollars ($75.00). It shall not be a defense to a determination of
the cost of removal that the work was performed by individuals who are
participating in “workfare programs” or performing public service employment
which is imposed as a condition of a criminal or ordinance violation sentence.
      The Village may enter into contracts with persons to cut or remove the
weeds or grass or abate Nuisance Greenery as set forth herein. Such persons
shall be paid by the Village.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
5-4-4B(1), any owner or controlling person may settle and compromise the claim
against him for such weed or grass cutting or removal or Nuisance Greenery
abatement by paying to the Village a sum which equals the actual cost of
cutting or removal, plus an administrative charge of Ten Dollars ($10.00);
provided, that said sum is paid to the Village within seven (7) days of a
demand for payment being made. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-4-5: LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the Village or someone acting on its
behalf, has cut or removed weeds or grass, or abated Nuisance Greenery pursuant
to this Chapter, and the costs and expenses have not been paid, a lien may be
filed against such parcel of real estate, as set forth in 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7, as
presently enacted or hereinafter amended. The lien may be filed on behalf of
the Village, or on behalf of the person performing the cutting or removal of
the weeds or grass on behalf of the Village. Such notice of lien shall be filed
in the office of the County Recorder and shall consist of a sworn statement
setting out: (a) a description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof; (b) the amount of the money representing the costs and expenses
incurred or payable for the service; and (c) the date or dates when such costs
and expenses were incurred by the Village, or person acting on behalf of the
Village. Upon payment of the costs and expenses, plus the cost of recording the
release of lien, by the owner of or persons interested in such property after
such notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the Village,
or person in whose name the lien has been filed, and the release may be filed
of record as in the case of filing the notice of lien.
   B.   Real property subject to a lien for removal of nuisance greenery, grass
or weeds and removal costs associated therewith, shall be sold for non-payment
of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
(Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-4-6: LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   Each and every person who owns or controls any real estate which is
subject to the provisions of this Chapter shall be jointly and severally liable
for the abatement of grass, weeds and Nuisance Greenery, and for the costs,
fees, expenses and penalties imposed by this Chapter.
   B.   The records maintained by the County Assessor shall serve as prima
facie evidence that a person is an owner or controls a parcel of real estate
subject to this Chapter; further prima facie evidence of a person owning or
controlling a parcel of real estate subject to this Chapter shall be determined
by the identity of the person who receives or pays the real estate taxes
imposed upon such parcel of real estate. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-4-7: PENALTY:
In addition to the other remedies provided in this Chapter, any person who owns
or controls the parcel of real estate who neglects or refuses to cut or remove
the weeds, grasses or Nuisance Greenery in violation of this Chapter commits an
ordinance violation and shall be filed a sum of not less than One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) for each
offense; any separate offense shall be deemed committed for each occasion for
which notice is sent and the Village, or someone acting on its behalf, has
refused or neglected to cut or remove the weeds or grass thereafter. The fines
authorized in this Section
5-4-7 are in addition to any other penalties or remedies set forth in this
Chapter. The Village may contract mowing or Nuisance Greenery abatement service
to any contractor or individual selected and approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE OR HAZARDOUS VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Storage Of Abandoned And Inoperable Motor Vehicles Prohibited
5-5-3: Abandoned, Inoperable And Hazardous Vehicles Declared To Be Nuisance
5-5-4: Removal Of Abandoned Or Hazardous Vehicles From Public Property
5-5-5: Removal Of Abandoned, Hazardous Or Inoperable Vehicles From Private
Property
5-5-6: Notification To Law Enforcement Agencies Of Abandoned, Lost Or Unclaimed
Motor Vehicles
5-5-7: Police Tows; Reports, Release Of Vehicles, Payment
5-5-8: Record Searches For Unknown Owners
5-5-9: Identifying And Tracing Of Vehicle
5-5-10: Reclaimed Vehicles; Expenses
5-5-11: Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicle
5-5-12: Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicle Without Notice
5-5-13: Disposal Of Hazardous Dilapidated Motor Vehicles
5-5-14: Collection Of Unpaid Charges
5-5-15: Police Record For Disposed Vehicle
5-5-16: Public Sale Proceeds; Disposition Of
5-5-17: Liability Of Law Enforcement Officers
5-5-18: Removal Of Abandoned Or Inoperable Motor Vehicles On Private Property;
Pre-Tow Hearing
5-5-19: Removal Of Abandoned Vehicles On Public Property Or Hazardous Vehicles
(On Public Or Private Property); Post-Tow Hearing
5-5-20: Conduct Of Pre-Tow And Post-Tow Hearings
5-5-21: Decisions Of The Hearing Officer And Its Effect
5-5-22: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them:
                      Any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being
                      driven in its condition or any vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
ABANDONED VEHICLE:    (7) consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted. However, a vehicle
                      located on the real property of its owner or on the real property of its owner’s
                      bailee shall not be considered to be abandoned for purposes of this Chapter.
ALLEY:                A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots or
                      buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
                      An unattended vehicle which, by its position in relation to any highway, street,
                      alley, or other public property, creates or constitutes a hazard which impedes
                      the safe or efficient movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic; blocks the
HAZARDOUS VEHICLE:    use of a fire hydrant, standpipe or fire escape; poses an immediate fire hazard;
                      blocks the use of a private road or driveway or that obstructs the movement of
                      any emergency vehicle, public safety vehicle, public works vehicle; or which
                      otherwise causes a clear and immediate threat of bodily harm or damage to
                      property.
                      The entire width of public right-of-way of every way publicly maintained and
HIGHWAY OR STREET:    open to the use of the public for vehicular traffic. This includes the traveled
                      roadway, any on-street parking area, the parkway and sidewalk.
                      Any vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days, the engine,
                      wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other
                      parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
                      incapable of being driven or is an unregistered vehicle. “Inoperable Motor
                      Vehicle” shall not include:
                      (1)   A vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven or
                      moved under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
                      operations. Any vehicle that has been
INOPERABLE MOTOR      rendered temporarily incapable of being driven or moved under its own motor
VEHICLE:              power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations shall be
                      serviced or repaired within seven (7) days. If a vehicle has not been serviced
                      or repaired within seven (7) days, that vehicle shall be deemed an “inoperable
                      motor vehicle;”
                      (2)   Any vehicle that, when not in use, is kept outside of view from the public
                      and within a building that encloses the vehicle on all sides;
                      (3)   Any historic vehicle over twenty-five (25) years of age; or
                      (4)   Any motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business permitted in
                      accordance with the Village Code to engage in the wrecking or junking of motor
                      vehicles.
JUST CAUSE:           A reasonable basis to believe that a vehicle is (or, at the relevant time, was)
                      abandoned, inoperable, hazardous, or stolen.
LAW ENFORCEMENT       A sworn officer of the Village police department, a parking enforcement officer
OFFICER:              or any other person authorized by the Village President or the Police Chief to
                      enforce this Chapter.
                      The registered owner of a vehicle according to the Illinois Secretary of State.
OWNER:                The registered owner shall be presumed to be the titleholder unless the actual
                      titleholder or other party with a superior right to possession provides adequate
                      proof to the contrary.
PRE-TOW               The administrative hearing to be conducted by the Village President’s designee
ADMINISTRATIVE        before a vehicle is towed, to determine whether just cause exists for towing the
HEARING:              vehicle.
PRIVATE PROPERTY:     Real property that is not owned by a unit of government.
                      (1)   Any area or structure designed or used for the parking of vehicles that is
                      owned by a unit of government and which is typically available for use or entry
PUBLIC PARKING        by the general public, and
FACILITY:             (2)   Any area in which the Village is authorized to enforce one or more
                      provisions of the state motor vehicle code or ordinance of the Village
                      pertaining to traffic regulation or the parking, stopping or standing of
                      vehicles.
PUBLIC PROPERTY:      A highway, street, alley, public parking facility or other real property owned
                      by a unit of government.
                      A vehicle that does not have and/or is not displaying a current and valid
UNREGISTERED VEHICLE: license plate or registration sticker as required by law. An unregistered
                      vehicle shall be deemed an “inoperable motor vehicle.”
                      Territory contiguous to and including and street which is built up with
URBAN DISTRICT:       structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses situated at
                      intervals of less than one-hundred (100) feet for a distance of one quarter (1/
                      4) of a mile or more.
                      An officer or employee of the Village (who shall not be a member of the
VILLAGE PRESIDENT’S Village’s police department) whom the Village President designates to conduct
DESIGNEE:             the pre-tow administrative hearings and post-tow administrative hearings
                      required by the sections in this Chapter.
                      A machine propelled or pulled by power, other than human power, designed to
                      travel along the ground or on water by use of wheels, treads, runners, slides,
                      propellers, or jets and to transport persons or property or to pull machinery or
VEHICLE:              trailers, and shall include, without limitation, automobiles, trucks, buses,
                      recreational vehicles, A.T.V.s, boats, Jet-Skis, wave runners, tractors, garden-
                      tractors, motorcycles, snowmobiles, buggies, wagons, etc. In addition, the term
                      “vehicle” shall include devices used or designed to be towed behind a vehicle,
                      such as any and all trailers.
                      Receipt of authorization from a court of competent jurisdiction (by means of a
WARRANT:              duly issued warrant or judgment in a civil case) to seize any vehicle and
                      authorize the tow. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
 
5-5-2: STORAGE OF ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall store an abandoned vehicle or an inoperable vehicle on any
public property. No person shall store an abandoned vehicle or an inoperable
vehicle on private property unless the vehicle is stored in a fully enclosed
building. A law enforcement officer is authorized to issue an ordinance
violation citation to the real property owner(s), the vehicle owner(s), and any
other person(s) having control of the vehicle or real property (including
tenants and lessees), in order to enforce the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
1068, 8-17-2020; amd. Ord. 1111, 11-20-2023)
5-5-3: ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND HAZARDOUS VEHICLES DECLARED TO BE NUISANCE:
   A.   An abandoned vehicle located on a highway, street, alley, public
parking facility or other public property is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and shall be subject to removal in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter. Any and all owner(s) and/or lessee(s) of the abandoned vehicle shall
be deemed to be in violation of this subsection and subject to any fine and/or
additional penalties or fees, as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   An abandoned vehicle located on private property other than the vehicle
owner’s real property or the vehicle owner’s bailee’s real property is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and shall be subject to removal in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter. An abandoned vehicle located on the premises of
a business lawfully engaged in the wrecking or junking of vehicles shall not be
deemed to be a nuisance so long as the business operates in accordance with all
applicable statutes and ordinances. Any and all owner(s) and/or lessee(s) of
the abandoned vehicle shall be deemed to be in violation of this subsection and
subject to any fine and/or additional penalties or fees, as provided in this
Chapter.
   C.   An inoperable vehicle located on a highway, street, alley, public
parking facility or other public property is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and shall be subject to removal in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter. Any and all owner(s) and/or lessee(s) of the vehicle are deemed to be
in violation of this subsection and subject to any fine or any additional
penalties or fees, as provided in this Chapter.
   D.   An inoperable vehicle located on private property and within view of
the general public is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be subject to
removal in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. An inoperable
vehicle located on the premises of a business lawfully engaged in the wrecking
or junking of vehicles shall not be deemed to be a nuisance so long as the
business operates in accordance with all applicable statutes and ordinances.
Any owner(s) and/or lessee(s) of the vehicle and/or owner(s), lessee(s),
occupant(s) and/or persons in control of the real property where the inoperable
vehicle is parked shall be deemed to be in violation of the subsection and
subject to any fine and/or other penalties or fees, as provided in this
Chapter.
   E.   A hazardous vehicle located on a highway, street, alley, public parking
facility or other public property is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall
be subject to removal in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. Any
and all owner(s) and/or lessee(s) of the vehicle are deemed to be in violation
of this subsection and subject to any fine and/or any additional penalties and
fees, as provided in this Chapter.
   F.   Nothing herein shall be construed as a limitation upon the authority of
any law enforcement officer to issue a traffic or parking citation or for the
Village to pursue other legal remedies for the removal of any vehicle subject
to removal under this Chapter. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-4: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED OR HAZARDOUS VEHICLES FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   In addition to the penalties described in this Chapter, a law
enforcement officer is authorized to impound, tow, and/or have towed, by an
authorized commercial towing service to either the Village impound lot or to a
storage lot operated by the authorized towing service, any abandoned,
hazardous, or inoperable vehicle parked or located on a highway, street, alley,
public parking facility, or other public property.
      1.   When a motor vehicle is abandoned or left unattended, on a toll
highway, interstate highway, or expressway for two (2) hours or more, its
removal by a towing service may be authorized by a law enforcement agency
having jurisdiction.
      2.   When a motor vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway in
an urban district ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing company
service may be authorized by a law enforcement agency having jurisdiction.
      3.   When a motor vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway
other than a toll highway, interstate highway, or expressway, outside of an
urban district for twenty-four (24) hours or more, its removal by a towing
service may be authorized by a law enforcement agency having jurisdiction.
      4.   If a motor vehicle is abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or
partially dismantled vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, including but not limited to being deemed a Hazardous
Vehicle, as defined in this Chapter, it may be moved immediately from the
highway or private property adjacent to the highway by a towing service
authorizing by a law enforcement agency having jurisdiction. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-
2020)
5-5-5: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, HAZARDOUS OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE
PROPERTY:
   A.   Abandoned Vehicles. In addition to the penalties described in Chapter,
a law enforcement officer is authorized to impound and tow, or have towed by a
commercial towing service, to a place of safe storage any abandoned vehicle
located on private property other than the vehicle’s owner’s real estate and
other than the vehicle owner’s bailee’s real estate, after waiting a period of
seven (7) days or more, providing notice as required in Section
5-5-18, and receiving authorization of the tow from the owner of the private
property on which the vehicle is located or from a court of competent
jurisdiction (by means of a duly issued warrant or a judgment in a civil case)
to seize the vehicle and to make the tow.
   B.   Hazardous Vehicles. In addition to the penalties described in Chapter,
a law enforcement officer is authorized to immediately impound and tow, or have
towed by a commercial towing service to a place of safe storage, any Hazardous
Vehicle located on private property without waiting a period of seven (7) days.
   C.   Inoperable Vehicles. In addition to the penalties described in Chapter,
a law enforcement officer is authorized to impound and tow, or have towed by a
commercial towing service, to a place of safe storage any abandoned vehicle
located on private property other than the vehicle’s owner’s real estate and
other than the vehicle owner’s bailee’s real estate, after waiting a period of
seven (7) days or more, providing notice as required in Section
5-5-18, and receiving authorization of the tow from the owner of the private
property on which the vehicle is located or from a court of competent
jurisdiction (by means of a duly issued warrant or a judgment in a civil case)
to seize the vehicle and to make the tow. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-6: NOTIFICATION TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES OF ABANDONED, LOST OR UNCLAIMED
MOTOR VEHICLES:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle comes into the temporary
possession or custody of a person within the Village that is not the owner of
the vehicle, such personal shall immediately notify the Village police
department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the Village. Upon
receipt of such notification, a police officer shall authorize a towing service
to remove and take possession of the abandoned vehicle in accordance with the
time period restrictions in this Chapter. The towing service will safely keep
the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the tow as set forth
in 625 ILCS 5/4-204 for law enforcement agencies, until the vehicle is claimed
by the owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof or
until it is disposed of as provided in this Code. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-7: POLICE TOWS; REPORTS, RELEASE OF VEHICLES, PAYMENT:
When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided in this Chapter:
   A.   The authorization, any hold order, and any release shall be in writing,
or confirmed in writing, with a copy given to the towing service.
   B.   The police headquarters or office of the law officer authorizing the
towing shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the
color, year of manufacture, manufacture’s trade name, manufacturer’s series
name, body style, Vehicle Identification Number, license plate year and number
and registration sticker year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record
shall also include the date and hour of the tow, location towed from, location
towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
   C.   The owner, operator, or other legally entitled person shall be
responsible to the towing service for payment of applicable removal, towing,
storage, and processing charges and collection costs associated with a vehicle
towed or held under order or authorization of the law enforcement agency. If a
vehicle towed or held under order or authorization of a law enforcement agency
is seized by the ordering and authorizing agency or any other law enforcement
or governmental agency and sold, any unpaid removal, towing, storage and
processing charges and collection costs shall be paid to the towing service
from the proceeds of the sale. If applicable law provides that the proceeds are
to be paid into the treasury of the appropriate civil jurisdiction, then any
unpaid removal, towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs
shall be paid to the towing service from the treasury of the civil
jurisdiction. That payment shall not, however, exceed the amount of proceeds
from the sale, with the balance to be paid by the owner, operator, or other
legally entitled person.
   D.    Upon delivery of a written release order to the towing service, a
vehicle subject to a hold order shall be released to the owner, operator, or
other legally entitled person upon proof of ownership or other entitlement and
upon payment of applicable removal, towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs. (625 ILCS 5/4-204) (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-8: RECORD SEARCHES FOR UNKNOWN OWNERS:
   A.   When a law enforcement agency authorizing the impounding of vehicles
does not know the identity of the registered owner, lienholder or other legally
entitled person, that law enforcement agency will cause the vehicle
registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched by the Secretary
of State for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership information.
   B.   The law enforcement agency authorizing the impounding of a vehicle will
cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the State Police to be searched by a
direct communication to the State Police for stolen or wanted information on
the vehicle. When the State Police files are searched with negative results,
the information contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files
will be searched by the State Police. The information determined from these
record searches will be returned to the requesting law enforcement agency for
that agency’s use in sending a notification by certified mail to the registered
owner, lienholder and other legally entitled persons advising where the vehicle
is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information. Notification shall be sent no later than ten (10) business days
after the date the law enforcement agency impounds or authorizes the impounding
of a vehicle, provided that if the law enforcement agency is unable to
determine the identity of the registered owner, lienholder or other person
legally entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle within a ten (10)
business day period after impoundment, then notification shall be sent no later
than two (2) days after the date the identity of the registered owner,
lienholder or other person legally entitled to ownership of the impounded
vehicle is determined. Exceptions to a notification by certified mail to the
registered owner, lienholder and other legally entitled persons are set forth
in 625 ILCS 5/4-209.
   C.   When ownership information is needed for a towing service to give
notification as required under this Code, the towing service may cause the
vehicle registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched by the
Secretary of State. The written request of a towing service, in the form and
containing the information prescribed by the Secretary of State by rule, may be
transmitted to the Secretary of State in person, by U.S. Mail or other delivery
service, by facsimile transmission, or by other means the Secretary of State
deems acceptable. The Secretary of State shall provide the required
information, or a statement that the information was not found in the vehicle
registration records of the State, by U.S. Mail or other delivery service,
facsimile transmission, as requested by the towing service, or by other means
acceptable to the Secretary of State.
   D.   Fees for services provided under this Section shall be in amounts
prescribed by the Secretary of State under Section 3-821.1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code. Payment may be made by the towing service using cash, any
commonly accepted credit card, or any other means of payment deemed acceptable
by the Secretary of State. (625 ILCS 5/4-205) (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-9: IDENTIFYING AND TRACING OF VEHICLE:
When the registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of
this State or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable,
the law enforcement agency having custody of the vehicle shall notify the State
Police, for the purpose of identifying the vehicle owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by
the State Police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency
having custody of the vehicle for notification purposes. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-10: RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES:
   A.   Any time before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as
provided in this 625 ILCS 5/4-208, the owner, lienholder or other person
legally entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the
law enforcement agency having custody of the vehicle proof of ownership or
proof of the right to possession of the vehicle.
   B.   No vehicle shall be released to the owner, lienholder, or other person
under this Section until all towing, storage, and processing charges have been
paid. (625 ILCS 5/4-207) (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-11: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE:
   A.   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle seven (7) years of
age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder or other
legally entitled person for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has been
given as provided in this Section
5-5-8 and
5-5-9 (i.e., notice as provided in 626 ILCS 5/4-205 and 5/4-206), the law
enforcement agency or towing service having possession of the vehicle shall
cause it to be sold at public auction to a person licensed as an automotive
parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap processor under Article 5 of Chapter 625 of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes or the towing operator which towed the vehicle.
Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place
for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle
has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the law
enforcement agency where the vehicle is impounded, or the towing service where
the vehicle is impounded, shall cause a notice of the time and place of the
sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled persons. Notice as provided in this Chapter shall state the
time and place of sale and contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by a legally entitled persons to reclaim the
vehicle.
   B.   If an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle displays dealer
plates, notice under this Section and Section
5-5-12 (i.e., notice as provided in 625 ILCS 5/4-207) of this Code shall be
sent to both the dealer and the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally
entitled persons.
   C.   In those instances where the certified notification specified in this
Chapter has been returned by the postal authorities to the law enforcement
agency or towing service, the sending of a second certified notice will not be
required. (625 ILCS 5/4-208) (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-12: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE WITHOUT NOTICE:
   A.   New Car. When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or
other legally entitled person of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of
seven (7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for
in this Chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided for in Section
5-5-11 without notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
   B.   Old Car. When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age
is impounded as specified by this Chapter, or when any such vehicle it towed at
the request or with the consent of the owner or operator and is subsequently
abandoned, it will be kept in custody or storage for a minimum of ten (10) days
for the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner,
lienholder, or other legally entitled persons and contacting the registered
owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled persons by the U.S. Mail, public
service or in person for a determination of disposition; and an examination of
the State Police stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the
expiration of the ten (10) days period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled persons, the vehicle may be disposed of in either of the
following ways:
      1.   The law enforcement agency having jurisdiction will authorize the
disposal of the vehicle as junk or salvage; or
      2.   The towing service may sell the vehicle in the manner provided in
Section
5-5-11 of this Chapter, provided that the paragraph shall not apply to vehicles
towed by order or authorization of a law enforcement agency.
   C.   Antique Vehicle. A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle, custom
vehicle, or street rod may, however, be sold to a person desiring to restore
it. (625 ILCS 5/4-209) (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-13: DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED MOTOR VEHICLES:
Any hazardous, dilapidated motor vehicle impounded pursuant to the provision of
this Chapter and 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1, whether impounded at a public facility or
on the property of private towing service, shall be kept in custody for a
period of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining the identity of the
registered owner or lienholder and contacting such owner or lienholder, if
known, by regular U.S. Mail. At the expiration of the ten (10) day period,
without benefit of disposition information being received from the registered
owner or lienholder, the law enforcement agency having jurisdiction will
authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk. (65 ILCS 5/4-209.1) (Ord. 1068,
8-17-2020)
5-5-14: COLLECTION OF UNPAID CHARGES:
In an action to collect towing, storage, and processing charges that remain
unpaid after disposition of a vehicle towed or relocated under this Code, the
towing service may recover reasonable collection costs. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-15: POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE:
When a vehicle in the custody of the Village or law enforcement agency is
reclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person,
or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided
in this Chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the law
enforcement agency for a period of one (1) year from the date of the sale or
disposal (625 ILCS 5/4-210) (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-16: PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS; DISPOSITION OF:
   A.   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits is authorized to be
towed away by a law enforcement agency having jurisdiction and disposed of as
set forth in this Chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after
the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in
the treasury of the Village.
   B.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to vehicles disposed of
or sold at public sale under subsection (k) of 625 ILCS 5/4-107. (625 ILCS 5/4-
211) (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-17: LIABILITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
   A.    A law enforcement officer or agency or its officers or employees, or a
towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be held to answer or be
liable for damages in any action brought by the registered owner, former
registered owner, or his legal representative, lienholder or any other person
legally entitled to the possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed
and sold or disposed of as provided by this Chapter.
   B.   A towing service, and any of its officers or employees, that removes or
tows a vehicle as a result of being directed to do so by a law enforcement
officer or agency or a department of municipal government or its officers or
employees shall not be held to answer or be liable for injury to, loss of, or
damages to any real or personal property that occurs in the course of the
removal or towing of a vehicle or its contents on a limited access highway in a
designated Incident Management Program that uses fast lane clearance techniques
as defined by the Department of Transportation or at the direction of a peace
officer, highway authority official, or a representative of local authorities
under 625 ILCS 5/11-402 or 625 ILCS 5/11-404. (625 ILCS 5/4-213) (Ord. 1068, 8-
17-2020)
5-5-18: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED OR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY;
PRE-TOW HEARING:
   A.   General. In addition to the penalties described in Chapter, a law
enforcement officer is authorized to impound and tow, or have towed by a
commercial towing service, to a place of safe storage:
      1.   Any inoperable vehicle located on private property; and
      2.   Any abandoned vehicle located on private property other than the
vehicle’s owner’s real estate and other than the vehicle owner’s bailee’s real
estate, after:
         a.   Providing the owner notice and an opportunity to be heard as set
forth herein; and
         b.   Receiving the authorization for the tow from:
            (1)   The owner of the private property on which the vehicle is
located; or
            (2)   From a court of competent jurisdiction (by means of a duly
issued warrant or a judgment in a civil case) to seize the vehicle and to make
the tow.
   B.   First notice. If the owner of the private property on which the vehicle
is located consents to the law enforcement officer’s entry on to the private
property so that he/she can reach the vehicle for the purpose of affixing an
adhesive sticker thereto, the law enforcement officer shall give a first notice
to the owner of the vehicle by affixing an adhesive sticker to the vehicle. If
the owner of the private property on which the vehicle is located does not
consent to the law enforcement officer’s entry on to the private property so
that he can reach the vehicle for the purpose of affixing an adhesive sticker
thereto, the law enforcement officer shall obtain a warrant permitting entry
onto the private property to affix an adhesive sticker to the vehicle in
violation. The adhesive sticker providing first notice will be affixed in a
conspicuous location, and state:
      1.   States the make, model, and year of the vehicle; the location of the
vehicle when the adhesive sticker is attached; and the date on which the
adhesive sticker is attached;
      2.   Notifies the owner of the ordinance section which the vehicle
violates and why the vehicle violates that ordinance section;
      3.   Notifies the owner that he/she has seven (7) days (from the date on
which the adhesive sticker was affixed) in which to remove the vehicle;
      4.   Notifies the owner that he/she may demand a pre-tow administrative
hearing, before the Village President or the Village President’s Designee to
determine whether there is just cause to impound and to tow the vehicle, by
filing a written demand for such a hearing with the police department within
five (5) days after the date on which the adhesive sticker was affixed to the
vehicle;
      5.   Notifies the owner that, if he/she demands a pre-tow administrative
hearing and the designated hearing officer determines that “no just cause”
exists, the tow will not occur;
      6.   States the police department’s physical address, email address, and
fax telephone number (to facilitate the owner’s making the written demand for a
pre-tow administrative hearing); and
      7.   Notifies the owner that, if he/she should neither demand in writing
a pre-tow administrative hearing within five (5) days nor remove the vehicle
within seven (7) days on which the adhesive sticker was attached to the
vehicle, the Village will, on the eighth (8) day or as soon thereafter as
possible, cause the vehicle to be towed and impounded, in which case the owner
will be responsible for the expenses of towing and storage.
   C.   Second notice. If the vehicle displays a registration number, or if a
VIN is visible on the vehicle (from a place where the law enforcement officer
legally may be), the law enforcement officer shall communicate that number (or
those numbers) to the Illinois Secretary of State in an effort to determine the
name and address of the owner of record of the vehicle. If the law enforcement
officer is able to determine the name and address of the owner of record of the
vehicle, he/she shall send by certified mail, to the owner of record at his/her
address of record, with a return receipt requested, a notice which communicates
to owner the registration number and state of registration of the vehicle (if
known), the VIN of the vehicle (if known), and, in addition, the same
information described in subsections B.1.-7. If the certified letter is
deposited in the United States mail on a day after the adhesive sticker is
affixed to the vehicle, then the five-day period for the owner’s demanding a
pre-tow administrative hearing and the seven-day period for the owner’s removal
of the vehicle shall begin to run on the date that the certified letter is
deposited in the United States mail, and the text of the letter shall
communicate to the owner the fact that the five-day period and the seven-day
period shall begin to run on the date of mailing of the certified letter,
rather than the date on which the adhesive sticker was affixed to the vehicle.
   D.   Third notice. The law enforcement officer shall also determine the name
of the owner of record of the private property on which the inoperable vehicle
or abandoned vehicle is located and the tax mailing address of that owner of
record. If that owner of record of the private property does not authorize the
towing of the vehicle from his private property, the law enforcement officer
shall also send by certified mail, to that owner of record of the private
property at his tax mailing address, with a return receipt requested, a notice
which communicates to that owner of record of the private property the
registration number and state of registration of the vehicle (if known), the
VIN of the vehicle (if known), and, in addition, the same information described
in subsections B.1.-7. If the certified letter is deposited in the United
States mail on a day after the adhesive sticker is affixed to the vehicle, then
the five-day period for that owner’s demanding a pre-tow administrative hearing
and the seven-day period for that owner’s removal of the vehicle shall begin to
run on the date that the certified letter is deposited in the United States
mail, and the text of the letter shall communicate to that owner the fact that
the five-day period and the seven-day period shall begin to run on the date of
mailing of the certified letter, rather than the date on which the adhesive
sticker was affixed to the vehicle.
      If:
      1.   The owner of record of the private property, on which an inoperable
vehicle is located, is identical to the owner of record of the inoperable
vehicle;
      2.   The tax mailing address of the owner of record of the private
property is identical to the address of record of the owner of record of the
inoperable vehicle; and
      3.   The law enforcement officer has sent the second notice required by
subsection C above, in the manner required by subsection C above, the law
enforcement officer may dispense with sending the third notice described in
this subsection D.
   E.   Pre-tow administrative hearing:
      1.   Pre-tow administrative hearing demanded by owner of vehicle. The
owner of the vehicle may demand a pre-tow administrative hearing which will
take place before the Village President or the Village President’s Designee to
determine whether there is just cause to impound and to tow the vehicle, by
filing a written demand for such a hearing with the police department within
five (5) days after the date on which the adhesive sticker was affixed to the
vehicle. If the law enforcement officer was able to determine the name and
address of the owner of record of the vehicle, and sent by certified letter, to
the owner of record at his address of record, the notice described in
subsection C on a date after that on which the adhesive sticker was affixed to
the vehicle, the five-day period for the owner’s demanding a pre-tow
administrative hearing shall begin to run on the date that the certified letter
was deposited in the United States mail.
      It is the vehicle owner’s responsibility to notify the police department
of vehicle owner’s demand for a pre-tow administrative hearing by filing a
written demand. If the vehicle owner does not notify the police department by
filing a written demand for the pre-tow administrative hearing, vehicle owner
has waived the right to a pre-tow administrative hearing.
      2.   Pre-tow administrative hearing demanded by owner of the private
property on which the vehicle is located. The owner of the private property on
which the vehicle is located may demand a pre-tow administrative hearing which
will take place before the Village President or the Village President’s
Designee to determine whether there is just cause to impound and to tow the
vehicle, by filing a written demand for such a hearing with the police
department within five (5) days after the date on which the adhesive sticker
was affixed to the vehicle. If the law enforcement officer sent the notice by
certified letter, to the owner of the private property on which the vehicle is
located on a date after that on which the adhesive sticker was affixed to the
vehicle, the five-day period for the owner of the private property’s demanding
a pre-tow administrative hearing shall begin to run on the date that the
certified letter (to the owner of the private property) was deposited in the
United States mail.
      It is the private property owner’s responsibility to notify the police
department of private property owner’s demand for a pre-tow administrative
hearing by filing a written demand. If the private property owner does not
notify the police department by filing a written demand for the pre-tow
administrative hearing, private property owner has waived the right to a pre-
tow administrative hearing. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-19: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY OR HAZARDOUS VEHICLES
(ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY); POST-TOW HEARING:
   A.   General. In addition to the penalties described in section this
Chapter, a law enforcement officer is authorized to impound and tow, or have
towed by a commercial towing service, subject to the required time period
provided in Section
5-5-4 for any abandoned vehicle or immediately for any hazardous vehicle.
   B.   Notice. If the abandoned or hazardous vehicle displays a registration
number, or if a VIN is visible on the vehicle, the law enforcement officer
shall communicate that number (or those numbers) to the Illinois Secretary of
State in an effort to determine the name and address of the owner of record of
the vehicle. If the law enforcement officer is able to determine the name and
address of the owner of record of the vehicle, he/she shall send by certified
mail, to the owner of record at his address of record, with a return receipt
requested, a notice that:
      1.   States the make, model, and year of the vehicle; the registration
number displayed on the vehicle and the state of registration; and (if known)
the VIN of the vehicle;
      2.   The date on which, and the location from which, the vehicle was
towed;
      3.   The place where the vehicle is stored and (if applicable) the name
of the towing company or automobile storage company that owns that place;
      4.   Notifies the owner of the ordinance section which the vehicle
violated and why the vehicle violated that ordinance section;
      5.   Notifies the owner that he may demand a post-tow administrative
hearing, before the Village President or the Village President’s Designee to
determine whether there was just cause to impound and to tow the vehicle, by
filing a written demand for such a hearing with the police department within
five days after the date on which the certified letter to him was deposited in
the United States mail;
      6.   Notifies the owner that, if he demands a post-tow administrative
hearing and the designated hearing officer determines that “no just cause”
existed for the tow, the owner will not be liable for the expenses of towing
and storage;
      7.   States the police department’s physical address, email address, and
fax telephone number (to facilitate the owner’s making the written demand for a
post-tow administrative hearing); and
      8.   Notifies the owner that, if he/she should not demand in writing a
post-tow administrative hearing within five days, the owner will be responsible
for the expenses of towing and storage.
   C.   Post-tow administrative hearing. The owner of the vehicle may demand a
post-tow administrative hearing which would take place before the Village
President or the Village President’s Designee to determine whether there was
just cause to impound and to tow the vehicle, by filing a written demand for
such a hearing with the police department within five (5) days after the date
on which the certified letter to him was deposited in the United States mail.
   It is the vehicle owner’s responsibility to notify the police department of
vehicle owner’s demand for a post-tow administrative hearing by filing a
written demand. If the vehicle owner does not notify the police department by
filing a written demand for the post-tow administrative hearing, vehicle owner
has waived the right to a post-tow administrative hearing. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-
2020)
5-5-20: CONDUCT OF PRE-TOW AND POST-TOW HEARINGS:
   A.   A pre-tow hearing or a post-tow hearing required by this Chapter shall
be conducted before the Village President or the Village President’s Designee
within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt of a written demand from the person
seeking the hearing, or as soon thereafter is feasible for the Village
President or the Village President’s Designee, unless such person waives the
right to a speedy hearing. Saturdays, Sundays, and Village holidays are to be
excluded from the calculation of the 48-hour period.
   B.   The hearing officer designated by the Village President (if the Village
President does not conduct the hearing himself) shall be an officer or employee
of the Village who is not a member of the Village’s police department.
   C.   The sole issue before the hearing officer shall be whether there is or
was just cause to impound and tow the vehicle in question.
   D.   The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing in an informal manner and
shall not be bound by technical rules of evidence.
   E.   The person demanding the hearing shall carry the burden of establishing
that such person has the right to possession of the vehicle.
   F.   The police department shall carry the burden of establishing that there
is or was just cause to impound and tow the vehicle in question.
   G.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall prepare a
written decision.
   H.   A copy of that written decision shall be provided:
      1.   To the person who demanded the hearing;
      2.   To the registered owner of the vehicle if the person who demanded
the hearing was not the registered owner of the vehicle;
      3.   To the commercial towing service which towed (or which is scheduled
to tow) the vehicle; and
      4.   To the police department.
   I.   The hearing officer’s decision shall not affect any criminal proceeding
or any ordinance violation proceeding.
   J.   The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   K.   Failure of the registered owner of the vehicle or of the person who is
legally entitled to possession of the vehicle either to demand or to attend a
scheduled pre-tow administrative hearing or post-tow administrative hearing
shall be deemed a waiver of the right to such a hearing. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-21: DECISIONS OF THE HEARING OFFICER AND ITS EFFECT:
   A.   In a pre-tow administrative hearing required by this Chapter, the
hearing officer shall only determine that, as to the vehicle in question,
either: (1) there is just cause to impound and tow the vehicle; or (2) there is
no just cause.
      1.   Just cause to impound and tow the vehicle: If the hearing officer
determines that there is just cause to impound and tow the vehicle, the hearing
officer shall prepare and date a certificate of just cause which will authorize
the police department to impound and tow the vehicle. Copies of the certificate
of just cause shall be given:
         a.   To the person who demanded the hearing;
         b.   To the registered owner of the vehicle if the person who demanded
the hearing was not the registered owner of the vehicle;
         c.   To the commercial towing service which is scheduled to tow the
vehicle; and
         d.   To the police department.
      2.   No just cause to impound and tow the vehicle: If the hearing officer
determines that there is no just cause to impound and tow the vehicle, the
hearing officer shall prepare and date a certificate of no just cause which
will prohibit the police department from impounding and towing the vehicle.
Copies of the certificate of no just cause shall be given:
         a.   To the person who demanded the hearing;
         b.   To the registered owner of the vehicle if the person who demanded
the hearing was not the registered owner of the vehicle;
         c.   To the commercial towing service which is scheduled to tow the
vehicle; and
         d.   To the police department.
   B.   In a post-tow administrative hearing required by this Chapter the
hearing officer shall only determine that, as to the vehicle in question,
either: (1) there was just cause to impound and tow the vehicle; or (2) there
was no just cause.
      1.   Just cause to impound and tow the vehicle: If the hearing officer
determines that there was just cause to impound and tow the vehicle, the
hearing officer shall prepare and date a certificate of just cause, copies of
which shall be given: (1) to the person who demanded the hearing; (2) to the
registered owner of the vehicle if the person who demanded the hearing was not
the registered owner of the vehicle; (3) to the commercial towing service which
towed the vehicle; (4) to the commercial storage service that has possession of
the vehicle; and (5) to the police department. Upon receipt of a certificate of
just cause, the commercial towing service that towed the vehicle and the
commercial storage service having possession of the vehicle shall look to the
owner of the vehicle, rather than the Village, for payment of the expenses of
towing and storage.
      2.   No just cause to impound and tow the vehicle: If the hearing officer
determines that there was no just cause to impound and tow the vehicle, the
hearing officer shall prepare and date a certificate of no just cause, copies
of which shall be given: (1) to the person who demanded the hearing; (2) to the
registered owner of the vehicle if the person who demanded the hearing was not
the registered owner of the vehicle; (3) to the commercial towing service which
towed the vehicle; (4) to the commercial storage service that has possession of
the vehicle; and (5) to the police department. Upon receipt of a certificate of
no just cause, the commercial storage service having possession of the vehicle
shall release the vehicle to the registered owner thereof. Upon a finding of no
just cause, the Village shall pay the expenses of towing and storage in
accordance with the agreement made between the Village and the commercial
towing service. If the owner of the vehicle or the person who demanded the
hearing (if that person was not the registered owner of the vehicle) fails to
present the certificate of no just cause to the commercial storage service
having possession of the vehicle within 24 hours of his/her receipt thereof
(excluding such days when the commercial storage service is not open for
business), the registered owner of the vehicle shall assume liability for all
additional storage charges made by the commercial storage service after the
expiration of that 24-hour period. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-5-22: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person that maintains a nuisance in violation of this Chapter,
whether as a vehicle owner or lessee or as an owner, lessee, occupant or person
in control of real property:
      1.   Shall be subject to a fine of no less than One Hundred ($100.00) but
no more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) for each offense; each and
every day that the nuisance remains in violation of this Chapter after the
notice period to abate said nuisance is expired constitutes a separate and
continuing offense for which an additional fine may be assessed for each day
that the nuisance continues to exist; and
      2.   Shall be required by the Court to make a disposition on the
abandoned or unclaimed vehicle and pay all towing, storage, and processing
charges and collection costs assessed against said person.
   B.   When a vehicle is abandoned, it shall be presumed that the last
registered owner is responsible for the abandonment and shall be liable for all
towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs, less any amounts
realized in the disposal of the vehicle. The last registered owner’s liability
for storage fees may not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) days’ storage fees.
   The presumption established under this paragraph may be rebutted by a
showing that, prior to the tow:
      1.   A report of vehicle theft was filed with respect to the vehicle; or
      2.   The vehicle was sold or transferred and the last registered owner
provides the towing service with the correct identity and address of the new
owner at the time of the sale or transfer.
   If the presumption established under this Section is rebutted, the person is
responsible for theft of the vehicle or to whom the vehicle was sold or
transferred is liable for all towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs. (625 ILCS 5/4-214) (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
CHAPTER 6
DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE PROPERTIES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Nuisance Declared
5-6-2: Adoption By Reference
5-6-3: Notice To Abate
5-6-4: Penalty
5-6-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
In accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, et seq., all buildings or structures, the
condition of which, through neglect or otherwise, has caused the building to
become dangerous or detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village are deemed to be a dangerous and unsafe property and
hereby declared a nuisance. Any property within the Village deemed by the
Village Building and Zoning Officer, Village Fire Chief, or his/her designee to
be in violation of and/or any code adopted hereafter by the Village, is deemed
to be a dangerous and unsafe property and a nuisance. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-6-2: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
The Village may demolish, repair, or enclose or cause the demolition, repair,
or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings or uncompleted and abandoned
buildings within the Village and may remove or cause the removal of garbage,
debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials from
those buildings. Therefore, the Village does hereby adopt by reference the
applicable provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 and 5/11-31-1.1, and its related
statutes, governing dangerous and unsafe buildings. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-6-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Upon the Village determining that any building or structure within the
Village is deemed a nuisance in violation of this Chapter, a notice shall be
served upon the owner of record and/or controlling persons of such parcel of
real estate demanding that the nuisance be abated within fifteen (15) days of
the date of the notice. However, in no case shall the Village be required to
send more than one (1) notice to abate per calendar year to any owner of record
or controlling persons of such parcel of real estate, including but not limited
to any lessee(s) or occupant(s), in violation of this Chapter. Any notice sent
by the Village pursuant to this Chapter shall constitute valid notice to the
recipient for the remainder of the calendar year to abate any and all of the
aforementioned nuisances in the notice.
   B.   The person serving such notice shall make a return showing the details
of such service. The date of the notice shall be:
      1.   Date of mailing;
      2.   Date of personal or abode service;
      3.   Date of receipt of certified or registered mail; or
      4.   Date of publication of the notice. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-6-4: PENALTY:
Any and all person(s) that owns, rents, leases, or is in control of, the
dangerous or unsafe building or structure or who fails to comply with any
notice or order to abate the nuisance shall be fined a sum of not less than One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00)
for each offense; each and every day that the dangerous and unsafe building or
structure remains on the property in violation of this Chapter constitutes a
separate and continuing offense for which an additional fine may be assessed
for each and every day that the nuisance continues to exist. The fines
authorized in this Section
5-6-4 are in addition to any other penalties or remedies set forth in this
Chapter. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
SECTION:
5-7-1: Special Assessment
5-7-1: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT:
In addition to any other method authorized by law, if (i) a property owner is
cited with a Code violation under this Title, requiring the cutting of grass
and weeds, the removal of garbage and debris, the removal of inoperable motor
vehicles, or rodent and vermin abatement, (ii) noncompliance is found upon re-
inspection of the property after the due date for compliance with an order to
correct the Code violation or with an order for abatement; (iii) costs for
services rendered by the municipality to correct the Code violation remain
unpaid at the point in time that they would become a debt due and owing the
municipality, as provided in Division 31.1 of Article 11 of the Illinois
Municipal Code and (iv) a lien has been filed of record by the municipality in
the office of the recorder of deeds in the county in which the property is
located, then those costs may be collected as a special assessment on the
property pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/9-2-4.5. Upon payment of the costs by the owner
of record or persons interested in the property, the lien shall be released by
the municipality and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner as
the filing of notice of the lien. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
CHAPTER 8
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
SECTION:
5-8-1: Short Title
5-8-2: State Regulations Adopted
5-8-3: Definitions
5-8-4: Administration And Enforcement Authority
5-8-5: License, Registration And Permit Requirements
5-8-6: Rules And Procedures
5-8-7: Inspections
5-8-8: Violation; Penalty
5-8-9: Notices And Communications
5-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and cited as the Pollution Control Facility Code of
the Village. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The Village adopts and avails the Village of the provisions of Section 39.2 of
the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/39.2). (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context or provisions of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act clearly
indicate or require a different meaning:
ACT:           The Illinois Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/ et al.), as amended from
               time to time.
ALL WEATHER    A road built of suitable material which allows for unrestricted and unaided
ROAD:          vehicular movement in all forms of wet or dry weather.
               Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization
               of any kind proposing to obtain site location approval and IEPA permits for a new
APPLICANT:     pollution control facility within the Village’s jurisdiction, and includes the fee
               owner of such site, the proposed operator, and any other party with an interest in
               the site, such as a lessee, contract purchaser or land trust beneficiary.
BEDROCK:       The solid rock exposed at the surface of the earth or overlaid by unconsolidated
               material.
BOARD:         The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
CELL:          Compacted refuse completely enclosed by cover material.
COMBUSTIBLE    All waste substances capable of incineration or burning, but excluding explosive
WASTE:         or highly inflammable material.
COMPACTION:    The reduction of volume of material under load.
CONTAINERS:    Five (5) gallon pails; forty (40) or forty five (45) gallon fiberboard, steel and
               plastic drums; and fifty (50) or fifty five (55) gallon steel drums.
COUNTY:        Madison County, Illinois.
COVER          Soil or other material that is used to cover compacted solid waste in a sanitary
MATERIAL:      landfill and that is free of objects that would hinder compaction and free of
               content that would be conducive to vector harborage, feeding, or breeding.
DEVELOPMENT:   Construction or installation of a facility.
DISPOSAL:      See Section 3.185 of the Act.
DISPOSAL AREA: Any area within the Village to which refuse or garbage is to be hauled for
               disposal.
FACILITY:      Any device, mechanism, equipment, or area used for storage, transfer, processing,
               incineration, or deposit of solid waste.
GARBAGE:       See Section 3.200 of the Act.
GROUNDWATER:   See Section 3.210 of the Act.
HAZARDOUS      See Section 3.220 of the act.
WASTE:
HAZARDOUS
WASTE DISPOSAL A site at which hazardous waste is disposed.
SITE:
HEARING        A person appointed to conduct a public hearing and make findings of fact and a
OFFICER:       recommendation to the Roxana Pollution Control Hearing Committee or Village Board,
               as provided by this Chapter.
HOUSEHOLD      See Section 3.230 of the Act.
WASTE:
IEPA:          The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
LAND           All land or parcels of land on which refuse or non-putrescible refuse or solid
RECLAMATION    waste is accepted for deposit or permitted to be deposited regardless of whether a
AREA:          charge is made therefor.
LEACHATE:      See regulations of the Board pursuant to the Act.
MODIFICATION:  Any physical change, or change in the method of operation, of a solid waste
               management facility.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE All waste substances not being combustible waste such as earth fill, glass, metal,
WASTE:         earthenware, and the like.
OPERATOR:      A person, firm, partnership, association, company or organization of any kind who
               owns, leases, or manages a solid waste management facility.
PCF:           Refers to a pollution control facility as defined in the Act. “PCF” includes a new
               pollution control facility as defined in the Act.
PERMEABILITY:  The capability of a material to pass a fluid.
PERSON:        See Section 3.315 of the Act.
POLLUTION
CONTROL        See Section 3.330 of the Act. See also definition of “PCF.”
FACILITY:
PROFESSIONAL   An engineer registered to practice engineering in the State.
ENGINEER:
REFUSE:        All waste substances, including animal and vegetable, as well as combustible and
               noncombustible waste and all putrescible matter.
SALVAGING:     The return of solid waste materials to beneficial use.
SANITARY       See Section 3.445 of the Act.
LANDFILL:
SCAVENGING:    The removal of materials from a solid waste management facility in a manner not in
               conformity with the regulations governing salvaging.
SITE:          See Section 3.460 of the Act.
SLUDGE:        See Section 3.465 of the Act.
SOLID WASTE:   See Section 3.470 of the Act.
SOLID WASTE    Disposition of solid waste by means acceptable under regulations adopted by the
DISPOSAL:      Illinois Pollution Control Board.
SOLID WASTE    The processes of storage, processing, or disposal of solid wastes, not including
MANAGEMENT:    hauling or transport.
SURFACE WATER: All water, the surface of which is exposed to the atmosphere.
TRANSFER       See Section 3.500 of the Act.
STATION:
VECTOR:        Any living agent, other than human, capable of transmitting, directly or
               indirectly, an infectious disease.
VILLAGE:       The Village of Roxana, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The Mayor and the Village Board of Trustees, as members of the governing body of
               the municipality.
               That surface in unconfined water at which the pressure is atmospheric and is
WATER TABLE:   defined by the levels at which water stands in wells that penetrate the water just
               far enough to hold standing water. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
 
5-8-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The enforcement of this Chapter is hereby vested in the Village Board as the
governing body of the Village. The Village Board shall enforce this Chapter and
adopt all amendments and regulations hereunder. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8-5: LICENSE, REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Facility License Requirements: No person shall operate any landfill,
sanitary landfill, solid waste management or disposal site, transfer station,
land reclamation area or any PCF within the Village without first obtaining a
license and paying Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) annually for
each. No such license shall be issued except on application and approval by the
Village Clerk.
   B.   Facility Registration Required: All refuse or solid waste disposal
sites, transfer stations, material recovery facilities, recycling centers,
solid waste management facilities or any PCF shall be registered with Village
Clerk on forms provided by the clerk.
   C.   Vehicle Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit And Display Required: All persons using or operating
commercial or municipal refuse vehicles hauling refuse to any refuse disposal
area in the Village shall obtain a permit from the Village. A copy of the
permit shall be carried at all times in the hauling vehicle and displayed in
the upper right hand corner of the windshield.
      2.   Application For Permit: No permit shall be issued unless the
application filed with the Village contains the following information:
         a.   Name (owner and/or hauler);
         b.   Address;
         c.   Location of equipment; and
         d.   License plate number.
      3.   Permit Fee: The annual fee per vehicle shall be Sixty Dollars
($60.00) per year, which shall be paid prior to the issuance of the permit.
      4.   Issuance of Permit: The Village Clerk shall issue the permit
described in this Subsection. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8-6: RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The Village Board may adopt such rules concerning the filing of appeals and
applications for amendments, variances, giving of notice, and conduct of
hearings as shall be necessary to carry out its duties as defined herein. The
Village Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its
examinations and other official acts, and shall record the vote of all actions
taken. All minutes and records shall be filed for a period not to exceed two
(2) consecutive years in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be public
record. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8-7: INSPECTIONS:
The Village Board or its authorized representatives are hereby authorized to
make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance
with this Chapter and regulations promulgated hereunder. It shall be the duty
of the operator of a sanitary landfill, solid waste management or disposal
site, transfer station, material recovery facility, recycling center, land
reclamation project or any PCF to give the Village free access to the property
at reasonable times for the purpose of making such inspections as are necessary
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter and any
regulations promulgated hereunder. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this Chapter or the
regulations adopted pursuant hereto shall be deemed guilty of a violation of
this Chapter and shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not to exceed Two
Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00). Each day that a violation continues
to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8-9: NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:
All notices and communications to the Village will be addressed to:
Village Clerk of The Village Of Roxana
400 S. Central
Roxana, IL 62084
(Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
ARTICLE A. APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR NEW FACILITIES
SECTION:
5-8A-1: Definitions
5-8A-2: Application Requirements
5-8A-3: Village Review
5-8A-4: Hearing Officer
5-8A-5: Public Review And Public Participation
5-8A-6: Public Hearing
5-8A-7: Public Comment
5-8A-8: Site Approval Decision
5-8A-9: Records Kept
5-8A-10: Administration Of Fees And Costs
5-8A-11: Waiver Of Rules
5-8A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the provisions of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act or context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning. In addition, all other words used in
this article and defined in the act shall have the same definitions and
meanings as found in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
 
           Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
           organization of any kind proposing to obtain site location approval and IEPA
APPLICANT: permits for a new pollution control facility within the Village’s jurisdiction,
           and includes the fee owner of such site, the proposed operator, and any other
           party with an interest in the site, such as a lessee, contract purchaser or
           land trust beneficiary.
HAZARDOUS
WASTE      A site at which hazardous waste is disposed.
DISPOSAL
SITE:
IEPA:      The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
           The Mayor and the members of the Board of Trustees sitting as a committee of
           the whole, whose function is to attend the public hearings on requests for site
POLLUTION  approval, consider the siting record and rule upon any said request for site
CONTROL    approval. Members of this hearing committee serve in a quasi-adjudicatory role,
HEARING    and ex-parte communicators regarding any proposed PCF is prohibited upon the
COMMITTEE: filing of a request for siting approval until the Village Board renders its
           siting decision. For purposes of this Article, “pollution control hearing
           committee”, “hearing committee” and “Village Board and Mayor” are
           interchangeable. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
 
5-8A-2: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Eleven (11) complete copies of requests for site approval, plus one
additional copy for each municipality within one and one-half (1 ½) miles of
the proposed facility, all including copies of all site plans, exhibits, and
maps, shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk. Upon receipt of any
such request for site approval, the Village Clerk shall date stamp same and
immediately deliver such request to the mayor.
   B.   Consistent with the provisions of Section
5-8A-5 of this Article, a copy of the request for site approval shall be made
available for public inspection in the office of the Village Clerk, and members
of the public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of the request for site
approval or any part thereof upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction.
All copying requests shall be fulfilled by the Village Clerk within a
reasonable time from the time of the request. In fulfilling the duty to copy
the request for site approval, the Village Clerk may utilize the services of a
professional copying service. If a professional copying service is used,
payment of the actual cost of reproduction means the actual charge by the
professional copying service. Charges for copies by the Village Clerk shall be
at the maximum rates permitted by the Freedom of Information Act of Illinois
and any ordinances enacted by the Village in the implementation of said Act.
   C.   With respect to any or all documents submitted by the applicant to the
IEPA pertaining to the proposed facility, which are required to be filed by an
applicant with its siting request pursuant to Section 39.2(c)(ii) of the Act,
due in part to limitations on space and for convenience, an applicant may file
such documents on a computer disk (“CD”). Provided, however, that on or before
the date the site request is filed, the applicant shall also provide the
Village Clerk with a computer, enabling review of the CD for the duration of
the siting proceeding, until at least thirty five (35) days following the
decision of the Village on the siting request.
   D.   An applicant may also file with the Village Clerk a CD of its siting
request on the same date it files its eleven (11) complete copies pursuant to
subsection A of this Section; provided, that on or before the date the siting
request is filed, the applicant shall also provide the Village Clerk with a
computer, enabling review of the CD for the duration of the siting proceeding
until at least thirty five (35) days following the decision of the Village on
the siting request.
   E.   An applicant’s request for site approval shall include sufficient
details describing the proposed facility to demonstrate compliance with the
following criteria:
      1.   The facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the area
it is intended to serve;
      2.    The facility is so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      3.   The facility is located so as to minimize incompatibility with the
character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the value of
the surrounding property;
      4.   a.   For a facility other than a sanitary landfill or waste disposal
site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year floodplain
or the site is floodproofed;
         b.   For a facility that is a sanitary landfill or waste disposal
site, the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year floodplain,
or if the facility is a facility described in subsection (b)(3) of section
22.19a of the Act, the site is floodproofed;
      5.    The plan of operation for the facility is designed to minimize the
danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills, or other operational
accidents;
      6.   The traffic patterns to and from the facility are so designed as to
minimize the impact on existing traffic flows;
      7.   If the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous
waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility which includes
notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an
accidental release;
      8.   If the County has adopted a solid waste management plan in effect at
the time of the application, and said solid waste management plan is consistent
with the planning requirements of the local solid waste disposal act or the
solid waste planning and recycling act, the facility is consistent with that
plan; for purposes of this subsection E8, the “solid waste management plan”
means the plan that is in effect as of the date the application for siting
approval is filed; and
      9.   If the facility will be located within a regulated recharge area,
any applicable requirements specified by the board for such areas have been
met.
      The Village Board and Mayor may also consider as evidence the previous
operating experience and past record of convictions or admissions of violations
of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent corporation) in the field of
solid waste management when considering criteria of subsections E2 and E5 of
this section. Accordingly, a request for siting approval shall include the
applicant’s previous operating experience and past record of convictions or
admissions of violations.
      If the facility is subject to the location restrictions in section 22.14
of the Act, compliance with that Section shall be determined as of the date the
application for siting approval is filed.
   F.    Requests for site approval shall also include the following:
      1.    A written petition on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2"
x 11") paper which sets forth:
         a.   The identification of the applicant and owner, and if the
proposed site is owned in trust, the beneficiaries;
         b.   The legal description of the proposed site and a street address
or some other reasonable description of where the proposed site is located;
         c.   A description of the proposed facility, its operation, and the
expected longevity thereof;
         d.   The area to be served by the proposed facility and a statement of
the needs of such area for such a facility;
         e.   A list of the existing pollution control facilities within the
area proposed to be served and, with respect to each such facility, the
following information shall be provided: location, size, owner and/or operator,
type of pollution control facility, remaining capacity, probable life of the
existing facility, and types of wastes received;
         f.   The expected types, amounts, and methods of treatment or storage
of all wastes proposed for the site and the origins of these wastes;
         g.   A description of the geologic and hydrogeologic character of the
site including core samples and the monitoring plans, including any background
analyses for groundwater, surface water, and air;
         h.   Reasons supporting approval of the application; and
         i.   A prayer for site approval.
      2.   The request for a permit made to the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, if any such request has been made for the proposed facility.
      3.   A site plan showing details of the proposed facility including, but
not limited to:
         a.   Cross sections;
         b.   All existing wells within one thousand feet (1,000') of the site;
         c.   All monitoring wells;
         d.   Fences, buildings, and other structures;
         e.   Roads, entrances, and driveways; and
         f.   Core sample locations on and within two hundred feet (200') of
the site.
      4.   A detailed topographic survey of the subject site and the
surrounding area within One Thousand Feet (1,000') which indicates land use
and, if applicable, the boundary of the 100-year floodplain as determined by
the Illinois department of natural resources or other reliable source.
      5.    A statement of the plan of operation for the proposed facility,
including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Method of landfilling, incineration, resource recovery, or other
process;
         b.   Hours of operation;
         c.   Personnel;
         d.   Litter, vector, dust, and odor control;
         e.   Surface drainage and erosion control;
         f.   Fire control;
         g.   Corrective actions for spills and other operations accidents;
         h.   If applicable, the states of development or use; and
         i.   End use plan.
      6.   A statement or report of traffic information regarding the proposed
site including the anticipated number of vehicles and their size, weight, and
direction of movement.
      7.   All studies, maps, reports, permits, or exhibits which the applicant
desires the Village to consider at the public hearing.
      8.   A description of the insurance policies carried by the applicant to
cover single accidents, such as fires or explosions, and nonsudden accidental
occurrences. When applicable, proof shall be supplied that the Village has been
named as an additional insured on the applicant’s comprehensive general
liability policies.
      9.   A copy of any host agreement executed between the Village and the
applicant or any other agreements or contracts between the applicant and any
other unit of local government with respect to its proposed PCF.
      10.   If the site is a proposed hazardous waste facility, a copy of the
resource conservation recovery act contingency plan.
      11.   A One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollar ($150,000.00) nonrefundable
application fee to cover notice costs, court reporter costs, transcription
costs, Village consultant costs, hearing officer costs, costs for additional
staffing of the office of the Village Clerk and any and all other expenses
incurred by the Village in conducting the review of the request for site
approval, the subsequent public hearing, the site approval decision and the
costs and fees incurred by the Village for any appeal to the Illinois Pollution
Control Board and appellate court(s), including its attorney fees. Should there
be any additional costs incurred by the Village over the amount paid by the
applicant in the application fee, the applicant shall bear any and all
additional costs.
   G.   Each application for site approval shall be filed with the Village
Clerk, who shall designate the date of filing. Each application shall, at the
time of filing, comply with the requirements of this article, and such
application shall be complete at the time of filing.
   H.   In order to give members of the public an opportunity to make informed
written comment pursuant to Section 39.2 of the act and to give members of the
public and the Village an opportunity to prepare adequately and fairly for the
public hearing hereinafter described, the applicant must comply with all
application requirements as set forth in subsection F of this section. Failure
to comply with the application requirements shall render such required
information inadmissible at the public hearing.
   The word “amendment” shall mean a change in the design, method of operating,
size, height, or lateral distance of the landfill itself, or any other change
which has been found by the Illinois Pollution Control Board or the courts of
Illinois to constitute an amendment. Additional data, tests, maps, or other
matters generally considered evidentiary, when filed with the hearing officer
or the Village Clerk, shall not constitute an amendment. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-3: VILLAGE REVIEW:
   A.   Upon receipt of a copy of a request for site approval, the Village
Clerk shall notify the following of such receipt:
      1.   The Mayor.
      2.   The Board of Trustees.
      3.   The Village Attorney.
      4.   The Village Engineer and staff.
      5.   The consultant to the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees.
   B.   The Mayor shall be responsible for coordinating review of the request
for site approval and is authorized to set deadlines for the submittal of
reports and recommendations, which reports and recommendations shall be made a
part of the public record and filed with the Village Clerk no later than thirty
(30) days after the last day of the hearing.
   C.   The Village departments and consultants retained by the Village are
authorized to present testimony at the public hearing or provide comment for
the public record as described in this Article. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-4: HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   The Mayor shall appoint a hearing officer for the public hearing on the
request for site approval within fourteen (14) days of the date the siting
request is filed. The Village Clerk shall send one copy of the siting request
to the hearing officer at such time as such appointment is made by the mayor,
but no later than fourteen (14) days after the date the siting request is
filed. A copy of the CD containing documents on file with the IEPA, if any,
filed by the applicant pursuant to subsection
5-8A-2C of this article shall also be sent to the hearing officer by the
Village Clerk. The hearing officer shall preside over the public hearing and
shall make any decisions concerning the admission of evidence and the manner in
which the hearing is conducted subject to this article. The hearing officer
shall make all decisions and rulings in accordance with fundamental fairness.
The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent, or unduly
repetitious testimony or other evidence. No ruling of the hearing officer shall
be appealable to the Village Board.
   B.   The hearing officer is authorized to conduct a public meeting in the
nature of a pretrial or prehearing conference, to be held at least twenty one
(21) days prior to the date of the public hearing. Notice of said prehearing
conference shall be provided by the Village Clerk consistent with the
requirements of the Open Meetings Act or any applicable notification
ordinances, requirements or practices of the Village. The prehearing conference
shall be attended by the Village Attorney and counsel for the applicant and is
intended to provide any person who plans to participate in the public hearing
an opportunity to have the prehearing requirements and public hearing
procedures explained by the hearing officer. The Mayor and Village Trustees may
attend at their option. The prehearing conference shall be recorded by a court
reporter, with the Village Attorney arranging for same. The transcript of said
prehearing conference shall be available for review at the office of the
Village Clerk, and a copy may be obtained in like fashion as for the siting
request and any other documents that comprise the record.
   C.   The hearing officer shall preside over the public hearing consistent
with subsection
5-8A-6G of this Article.
   D.   The hearing officer shall consider all public comments timely filed
with the Village Clerk.
   E.   The hearing officer shall make findings of fact and a recommendation to
the Roxana Pollution Control Hearing Committee. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-5: PUBLIC REVIEW AND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION:
   A.   A copy of the request for site approval and all materials that comprise
the record shall be made available for public inspection in the office of the
Village Clerk. Members of the public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of the
request for site approval or any part thereof or any part of the record upon
payment of the actual cost of reproduction. All copying requests shall be
fulfilled by the Village Clerk within a reasonable time from the time of the
request. In fulfilling the duty to copy the request for site approval or any
part of the record, the Village Clerk may utilize the services of a
professional copying service. If a professional copying service is used,
payment of the actual cost of reproduction means the actual charge by the
professional copying service. Charges for copies by the Village Clerk shall be
at the maximum rates permitted by the Freedom of Information Act of Illinois
and any ordinances enacted by the Village in the implementation of said Act.
   B.   The office of the Village Clerk is an elective but part time position
with limited staffing. Upon the filing of a request for site approval, special
arrangements will be made to allow public inspection of the siting record and
to accommodate copying requests. Upon receipt of a request for site approval,
except for state and federal holidays, the Village Clerk’s office will be open
Monday through Thursday, nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to two o’clock (2:00) P.M. to
serve those duties and functions of the office of Village Clerk during a siting
proceeding, pursuant to this Article and Section 39.2 of the Act.
   C.   Any person may file a written comment with the Village Clerk for
consideration by the hearing officer and Village Board and Mayor concerning the
appropriateness of the proposed site for its intended purpose. The hearing
officer and the Village Board and Mayor shall consider any comment received or
postmarked not later than thirty (30) days after the date of the last public
hearing. In the event that the thirtieth day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or
state or federal holiday, the next day on which mail is received by the Village
Clerk shall be considered the thirtieth day for proposes of this subsection.
   D.   All persons desiring to be participating parties in the public hearing,
including members of the public, must submit written notification of said
intent to the Village Clerk fourteen (14) days before the first day of the
public hearing. Any person timely registering as a participating party at such
public hearing shall have the right to present testimony and witnesses and to
cross examine other witnesses. Any such person who timely registers as a
participating party shall have the right to be represented by an attorney at
said public hearing. Opportunity for any persons appearing at said public
hearing to cross examine any witness may be reasonably limited in time and
duration by the hearing officer to assure completion of the hearing in
accordance with the deadlines of this article and the act.
   E.   All reports, studies, exhibits, or other evidence, or copies thereof,
other than testimony, which any other person desires to submit for the record
at the public hearing must be filed with the Village Clerk at least fourteen
(14) days before the public hearing and shall be available for public
inspection in the office of the Village Clerk. In the event that the fourteenth
day prior to the date of the public hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or
holiday, the next working day shall be considered the day that reports,
studies, and exhibits must be filed. The Village Clerk shall date stamp any
such report, studies, exhibits, or other evidence upon receipt, as well as any
forms completed, so the person may participate as a party at the public
hearing. Any person desiring to participate as a party or to provide oral
public comment must provide his or her full name, address, and if he or she
represents a group or organization. In the case of documentary evidence,
members of the public shall be allowed to obtain copies of the documents upon
payment of the actual cost of reproduction. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   No sooner than ninety (90) days but no longer than one hundred twenty
(120) days from the date of filing the request for site approval with the
Village Clerk, a public hearing shall be held by the pollution control hearing
committee.
   B.   The pollution control hearing committee shall consist of members of the
Board of Trustees and the Mayor as set forth herein. When acting as the
pollution control hearing committee, two (2) members shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of holding such a public hearing.
   C.   Within ten (10) working days of the date a request for site approval is
filed, the Village Clerk shall determine, in consultation with the Mayor, the
date, time, and location upon which the public hearing shall be held, but in
any event, the initial public hearing must be scheduled no sooner than ninety
(90) days but no later than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the
request for site approval was filed with the Village Clerk.
   D.   The Village Clerk shall notify the applicant to cause notice of such
hearing to be made. Notification of the public hearing shall be made by the
applicant, as follows:
      1.   Publication of legal notice in a newspaper of general circulation
published in Madison County at least once per week for three (3) successive
weeks prior to the date set for hearing. Such notice shall consist of the
following:
         a.   The name and address of the person, partnership, or corporation
requesting site location approval.
         b.   The owner of the site, and in case ownership is in a land trust,
the names of the beneficiaries of the trust.
         c.   The legal description of the site.
         d.   The street address of the property, and if there is no street
address applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
location, ownership, or occupancy or in some other manner that will reasonably
identify the property to residents of the neighborhood.
         e.   The nature and size of the proposed development.
         f.   The nature of the activity proposed.
         g.   The probable life of the proposed activity.
         h.   The time and date of the public hearing.
         i.   The location of the public hearing.
         j.   A statement that all copies of evidence other than testimony to
be submitted at the public hearing must be filed with the Village Clerk at
least ten (10) days before the public hearing.
      2.   Certified mail to all members of the general assembly from the
district in which the proposed site is located.
      3.   Certified mail to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      4.    Certified mail to all municipalities contiguous to the proposed
site or contiguous to the Village.
      5.    Certified mail to the Madison County Board.
   E.   The applicant for site location approval shall have the burden of going
forward with evidence of the suitability of the site location for the proposed
use.
   F.   Subject to compliance with the requirements of Section
5-8A-5 of this Article, any person appearing at such public hearing shall have
the right to give testimony and comment on the suitability of the site location
for the proposed use. Any person shall have the right to be represented by an
attorney at the public hearing. Such attorney shall have the right of
reasonable cross examination, subject to compliance with the requirements of
section
5-8A-5 of this Article. Opportunity for any person appearing at such public
hearing to cross examine any witness may be limited by the hearing officer.
   G.   The hearing officer shall conduct the public hearing substantially as
follows:
      1.   Call to order.
      2.   Introduction of the hearing committee and hearing officer.
      3.   Recognition of the applicant and identification of the request for
site approval.
      4.   Recognition of fees, notices, and date of filing of the request for
site approval.
      5.   Recognition of other participating parties wishing to testify and
any other reports, exhibits, maps, or documents of record as filed pursuant to
section
5-8A-5 of this article. All participating parties, including members of the
public, intending to testify or cross examine must sign in or submit written
notification of that intent to the Village Clerk on or before the fourteenth
day prior to the public hearing, as set forth in section
5-8A-5 of this article. Members of the public who wish to provide oral comment
will not be allowed to present testimony or cross examine unless they have
registered as a participating party fourteen (14) days prior to the public
hearing per said section
5-8A-5.
      6.   The applicant and other parties may make an opening statement.
      7.   The hearing committee shall then hear testimony from the applicant
and any witnesses the applicant may wish to call. Upon the close of the
applicant’s testimony, other parties may offer expert witnesses and evidence
they may wish to present, subject to the profiling procedures of section
5-8A-5 of this article. These other parties may or may not be represented by
counsel. Upon the close of the applicant’s and other parties’ testimonies and
evidence, the Village staff may present any witnesses and evidence it wishes to
present. Members of the public, of record, as set forth herein, may then
present oral comment to the hearing committee. The hearing officer shall decide
the order of presentation of testimony and oral public comment subject to this
article.
      8.   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the
use of exhibits, provided they have timely prefiled such exhibits per section
5-8A-5 of this article. All witnesses shall be subject to reasonable
examination as follows: direct, cross examination, redirect, recross, and the
like. After all parties have presented testimony, reasonable rebuttal,
surrebuttal, and the like may be allowed at the discretion of the hearing
officer.
      9.   The hearing officer may propound questions to any witness or to the
applicant’s witnesses to clarify the record established by the participants at
the hearing or to bring out relevant information. The Village staff shall be
deemed a participant and a party to all proceedings and shall proceed last with
its case and cross examination if it chooses to present witnesses.
      10.   The hearing committee and Village Attorney may ask questions of any
witness following cross examination by participating parties.
      11.   Should any issues, facts, data, or other evidence arise during the
course of the public hearing which were not apparent or reasonably foreseeable
by a party from the request for site approval as filed with the Village Clerk,
such situation may constitute grounds for a recess in the public hearing for a
period not to exceed five (5) working days.
      12.   The hearing officer shall determine when oral public comment can be
presented, and shall not necessarily be limited to the end of the testimony
from all participating parties. Members of the public who wish to provide oral
public comment at the hearing shall register with the Village Clerk fourteen
(14) days prior to the date of the hearing, but shall not be precluded from
presenting such oral comment if they register with the hearing officer by the
end of the first day of the public hearing. The hearing officer may reasonably
limit the time for oral comment to be made.
      13.   Summary statements by the applicant and other parties subject to
limitations as imposed by the hearing officer.
      14.   Rebuttal statement, if any, by the applicant, subject to
limitations as imposed by the hearing officer.
      15.   Hearing closed. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-7: PUBLIC COMMENT:
   A.   The Village Clerk shall receive written comment from any person
concerning the appropriateness of the proposed site. Upon receipt of any such
written comment, the Village Clerk shall date stamp same and shall file the
written comment and the postmarked envelope in which the comment is received.
   B.   Copies of such written comments shall be made available for public
inspection in the offices of the Village Clerk, and members of the public shall
be allowed to obtain a copy of any written comment upon payment of actual cost
of reproduction.
   C.   Any written comment received by the Village Clerk or postmarked no
later than thirty (30) days after the date of the last public hearing shall be
made a part of the record of the public hearing as described in section
5-8A-9 of this Article. The hearing officer and Village Board and Mayor shall
consider any such timely written comments in making its final determination
concerning the request. In the event that the thirtieth day falls on a
Saturday, Sunday or state or federal holiday, the next day on which mail is
delivered shall be considered the thirtieth day for purposes of this
subsection. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-8: SITE APPROVAL DECISION:
   A.   After the public hearing and any continuation thereof, and at the
conclusion of the thirty (30) day comment period, the Village Board and Mayor
shall hold a review meeting for purposes of establishing its final decision
concerning the site approval request. The Village Board and Mayor may consider
the record in closed session pursuant to the Open Meetings Act provision for
adjudications, but the decision must be made in an open public meeting, with a
quorum as constitutes the Village Board’s customary decision making. In making
any final decisions, the Village Board and Mayor shall consider the hearing
officer’s findings of fact and recommendation. However, the Village Board and
Mayor are not bound by the hearing officer’s recommendation, but the decision
shall be supported by the record and shall be made in sufficient time following
the close of the hearing and public comment period so as to allow a final
decision at least one hundred eighty (180) days from the Village Clerk’s
receipt of the site approval request.
   B.   An applicant for local siting approval shall submit sufficient details
describing the proposed facility to demonstrate compliance, and local siting
approval shall be granted only if the proposed facility meets the criteria set
forth in Section 39.2 of the Act, as are now in effect and as may be amended
from time to time, which criteria are hereby adopted by the Village in
approving or denying the local siting application. Those criteria are set forth
in subsection
5-8A-2E of this Article.
   C.   The Village Board and Mayor shall consider the record from the public
hearing, from the public comment period, and the findings of fact and
recommendations of the hearing officer and shall make a final decision
concerning a site approval request within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the Village Clerk’s receipt of the site approval request. The Village Board and
Mayor may conditionally approve any request for site approval, provided such
conditions are not inconsistent with regulations promulgated by the Illinois
Pollution Control Board. Any determination by the Village Board and Mayor shall
be supported by the record. The meeting to review the record may be in closed
session pursuant to the Open Meetings Act provisions for adjudications, but its
decision must be made in an open public meeting. Decisions of the Village Board
and Mayor must be in writing, specifying the reasons for the decision, such
reasons to be in conformance with Subsection B of this Section. Such decision
shall be available for public inspection at the Village Hall, Village Clerk’s
office, and may be copied upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction.
   D.   No determination by the Village Board of a site approval request may be
reconsidered. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-9: RECORDS KEPT:
   A.   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for keeping the record of the
hearing. The record shall consist of the following:
      1.   The request for site location approval as described in Section
5-8A-2 of this article.
      2.   Proof of prefiling notice given by applicant pursuant to Section
39.2(b) of the act.
      3.   Proof of notice of the public hearing given by the applicant
pursuant to subsection
5-8A-6D of this article.
      4.   Any additional public notices, such as of a prehearing conference.
      5.   Any documentation filed with the agency by the applicant regarding
the PCF, or the CD of such documents, as described in section
5-8A-2 of this article.
      6.   Written comments filed by the public and received by the Village
Clerk or postmarked within thirty (30) days of receipt of the filing of a
request for site location approval.
      7.   All reports, studies, exhibits, or documents received into evidence
at the public hearing.
      8.   The transcript of any prehearing conference.
      9.   The transcript of the public hearing.
      10.   Findings of fact and recommendations of the hearing officer to the
Village Board and Mayor.
      11.   The resolution containing the final declaration of the Village
Board and Mayor.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for certifying all copies of the
record of the public hearing. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-10: ADMINISTRATION OF FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   All expenses incurred by the Village in conducting the review of the
request for site approval, the subsequent hearing, and the site approval
decision and the costs and fees incurred in any appeal to the Illinois
Pollution Control Board and appellate court(s), including attorney fees, shall
be paid from the application fee as provided in this Article.
   B.   Upon termination of any proceedings under the hearing process, a final
accounting and summary of all authorized expenditures and reimbursements shall
be presented to the Village Board and Mayor.
   C.   Any portion of an application fee not required for reimbursement to the
Village for costs or expenses incurred by the Village under Subsection A of
this section shall be utilized by the Village for any purpose reasonably
related to solid waste management, annexation of land, recycling or any other
purpose authorized by law. Should there be costs and/or expenses in excess of
the amount paid by the applicant in the application fee, the applicant shall
bear any and all additional costs. When the application fee is reduced due to
costs incurred for proceedings under this Article and under Section 39.2 of the
act to Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00), the applicant shall be notified and
shall be required to post an additional Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00).
Any portion of the additional Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) fee not
required for reimbursement to the Village for the site location approval
process shall be returned to the applicant. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
5-8A-11: WAIVER OF RULES:
In order to ensure fundamental fairness, compliance with the act, and to
protect the public interest, the pollution control hearing committee, by
majority vote of those present and voting, may waive any of the rules in this
Article. (Ord. 1068, 8-17-2020)
CHAPTER 9
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION STICKER
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Registration Provisions
5-9-3: Sanitary Conditions
5-9-4: Restaurants
5-9-5: Mobile Food Vendor Registration Sticker
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
FOOD: A.   Articles used for food or drink for man or other animals;
   B.   Chewing gum; and
   C.   Articles used for components of any such article, including beverages
and drink.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: A person or entity who stores, prepares, packages, serves,
vends food directly to the consumer, or otherwise provides food for human
consumption such as a restaurant; satellite or catered feeding location;
catering operation if the operation provides food directly to a consumer or to
a conveyance used to transport people; market; vending; location; conveyance
used to transport people; institution; or food pantry; and relinquishes
possession of food to a consumer directly, or indirectly, through a delivery
service such as home delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout orders,
or delivery service that is provided by common carriers.
   A.   Food Establishment includes an element of the operation such as a
transportation vehicle or central preparation facility that supplies a vending
location or satellite feeding location unless the vending or feeding location
is permitted by the regulatory authority; and an operation that is conducted in
a mobile, stationary, temporary, or permanent facility or location; where
consumption is on or off the premises; and regardless of whether there is a
charge for the food.
   B.   Food Establishment does not include an establishment that offers only
prepackaged foods that are not time/temperature control for safety foods; a
produce stand that only offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and vegetables; a food
processing plant including those that are located on the premises of a food
establishment; a kitchen in a private home, such as a small family daycare
provider or a bed and breakfast operation as defined in the Bed and Breakfast
Act that prepares and offers food to guests; a private home that receives
catered or home delivered food; a closed family function where food is prepared
or served for individual family consumption; or a cottage food operation. (77
Ill. Adm. Code 750).
EMPLOYEE: Any person who in the course of employment for another handles food
or drink during preparation or serving or who comes in contact with any eating
or cooking utensils.
RESTAURANT: Any eating or drinking establishment where food and drink is
prepared for consumption on the premises, as well as kitchens or other places
including bakeries in which food or drinks are prepared for sale elsewhere.
TEMPORARY RESTAURANT: A restaurant operating for a temporary period in
connection with a fair, carnival, circus, public picnic or public exhibition.
UTENSILS: Any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, utensils, containers
or other equipment with which food or drinks come in contact during storage,
preparation or serving.
(Ord. 1101, - -2023)
5-9-2: REGISTRATION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Required; Application: It shall be unlawful for any food establishment
to engage in or do business in the Village without first having secured a
registration sticker therefor. Applications for such registration sticker shall
be made in compliance with the general provisions of this code relating
thereto, with Madison County’s Food Sanitation Program Ordinance Chapter 55,
and shall state the kind of food intended to be sold or handled.
   B.   Fees: The annual Registration Sticker fee for a registration sticker
required by subsection 5-9-2A of this section shall be in accordance with the
following schedule:
      1.   For the sale of unprepared or packaged food or beverage other than
alcoholic liquor intended for human consumption, over the counter - fifty
dollars ($50.00).
      2.   For the sale of unprepared or packaged food, beverage other than
alcoholic liquor, or tobacco intended for human consumption, to be sold from
vending machines - fifty dollars ($50.00).
      3.   For the sale of unprepared or packaged food, beverage other than
alcoholic liquor, or tobacco intended for human consumption, to be sold from
vending truck or vehicle, five hundred dollars ($500.00) per vehicle annually
or daily as provided below in section
5-9-4 A2(b).
   C.   Penalty: Any food establishment found to operate without a registration
sticker may not continue such operation, and to do so is a violation of the
Village Code subject to the General Penalty for violation of ordinances and
each day that such violation shall continue shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 1101, - -2023)
5-9-3: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Maintenance Of Food Establishments: Premises used for the sale or
storage of food intended for human consumption must be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. It shall be unlawful to permit any accumulation of refuse
or waste of any kind to remain therein for more than twenty four (24) hours,
and it shall be unlawful to permit any decaying animal or plant material to
remain on such premises. No dogs, cats or other animals, except for guide or
hearing dogs under the control of a handicapped person, shall be permitted on
such premises.
   B.   Unwholesome Foods: No person shall offer for sale or keep for the
purpose of selling or offering for sale, any food of any kind intended for
human consumption which is spoiled or tainted or is unwholesome and unfit for
human consumption for any reason.
   C.   Adulterated Foods: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or
keep for such purpose, any food or drink intended for human consumption which
has been adulterated by any material harmful in any way, or which does not
comply with the statutes governing the same.
   D.   Flies And Vermin Prohibited: Premises used for the storage, preparation
or sale of food intended for human consumption shall be kept free from flies,
vermin and rodents.
   E.   Food Handlers:
      1.   All persons engaged in handling or coming in contact with food
intended for sale for human consumption shall keep themselves clean, both as to
person and clothing.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a
carrier of any infectious or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the
care of or preparation of food, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
person to be employed in or about any premises where food is stored, prepared
or sold, or to deliver such food.
(Ord. 1101, - -2023)
5-9-4: RESTAURANTS:
   A.   Registration Sticker Requirements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a restaurant in the
city who does not possess a Food Establishment registration sticker from the
Village, which shall be posted in a conspicuous place. Only persons who comply
with the requirements of this section shall be entitled to receive and retain
such a sticker. A person conducting any mobile food establishment shall also be
required to secure a sticker, except as hereinafter provided.
      2.   Every applicant for a registration sticker to operate a restaurant
shall pay to the Village a fee or fees for each such establishment in
accordance with the following schedule:
         a.   Restaurants: fifty dollars ($50.00) annually.
         b.   Mobile Food Vendor Registration Sticker: twenty-five dollars
($25.00) per day.
   B.   Contagious Disease Control:
      1.   No person while affected with a disease in a communicable form or
while a carrier of such disease or while afflicted with boils, infected wounds
or acute respiratory infection, shall work in a restaurant in an area and
capacity in which there is likelihood of transmission of disease to patrons or
to fellow employees, either through direct contact or through the contamination
of food or food contact surfaces with pathogenic organisms. No such person
shall be employed in such an area and capacity in a restaurant.
      2.   If the restaurant manager suspects or should reasonably suspect that
any employee has contracted any disease in a communicable form or has become a
carrier of such disease, he shall immediately notify the state of Illinois
department of public health.
      3.   All employees shall thoroughly wash their hands and arms with soap
and warm water before starting work, and shall wash hands during work hours as
often as may be required to remove soil and contamination.
      4.   Hand washing signs shall be posted in each toilet room used by
employees.
      5.   Hairnets, headbands, caps or other effective hair restraints shall
be used by employees engaged in the preparation and service of food to keep
hair from food and food contact surfaces.
   C.   Building Construction, Reconstruction And Alteration: All restaurants
which are hereafter constructed, reconstructed or extensively altered shall
conform in their construction to the requirements of this section for grade A
restaurants. Properly prepared plans for all restaurants which are hereafter
constructed, reconstructed or extensively altered shall be submitted to the
building commissioner for approval before work is begun.
(Ord. 1101, - -2023)
5-9-5: MOBILE FOOD VENDOR REGISTRATION STICKER:
   A.   A mobile food vendor is defined as a self-contained food service
operation, located in a readily movable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle,
used to store, prepare, display or serve food intended for immediate human
consumption. It shall include food carts, food trucks, and ice cream trucks.
   B.   A mobile food vendor registration sticker is required for any person(s)
wishing to sell food for human consumption from a food cart, food truck, or ice
cream truck.
      1.   Exceptions:
         a.   A mobile food vendor registration sticker is not required for
City-sponsored special events where a fee to participate is required or
assessed by the Village of Roxana.
         b.   A mobile food vendor registration sticker is not required for
private catered events held on private property when there are no sales to the
general public. Such sales must be limited to attendees or invitees.
         c.   Other special events by resolution or majority vote of the
Village Board of Trustees.
   C.   If a mobile food vendor operates more than one food truck/food cart,
then each such food truck/food cart shall require a separate registration
sticker.
   D.   Any mobile food vendor operating in the Village of Roxana shall be
properly permitted by the Madison County Health Department. All food trucks
shall be subject to the State of Illinois and Madison County Health Codes and
all rules and regulations promulgated by the applicable Health Commissioner.
   E.   Mobile food vendors shall obtain and either display or have readily
available for inspection at all times all State of Illinois and/or Madison
County Health Department permits required to operate their food truck/cart.
   F.   No food, food products, or beverages for public consumption shall be
kept, offered for sale, transported, or handled except in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the State of Illinois and the Madison County Health
Department.
   G.   If the State of Illinois or the Madison County Health Department
suspends or revokes their respective permits and/or licenses, then the
registration sticker shall hereby be revoked until such time as the State of
Illinois or the Madison County Health Department permits and/or licenses are
reinstated.
   H.   No food or beverage may be sold or given away in a glass container or
bottle.
   I.   Upon the submission of a complete application showing compliance with
all terms of this article and passage of the investigation, when required, the
mobile food vendor registration sticker shall be signed by the administrator.
   J.   No registration sticker shall be granted for longer than one year and
shall expire on the last day of December following its issuance.
      1.   The registration sticker for an annual mobile food vendor shall be
valid on January 1 and expiring on December 31 for the year in which it was
issued.
      2.   Registration Stickers for applications received throughout the year
shall be issued for one year from their date of issuance without proration.
      3.   All registration stickers and permits shall be either displayed so
that they are visible to customers at all times or kept within the confines of
the food truck/cart so that it is readily available upon request or inspection.
      4.   The fee for an annual registration sticker shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00) as indicated in section 5-9-2 B(3).
   K.   Mobile food vendor registration stickers shall not be transferable to
any other applicant or vendor.
   L.   Every mobile food vendor shall indemnify and hold harmless the Village
of Roxana for all suits or actions brought against the Village for or on
account of any injuries or damages received or sustained by any party or
parties caused by the said vendor.
   M.   Proof of insurance of the vendor's public liability, food products
liability, and property damage insurance sufficient to protect vendor, property
owners, and the Village from all claims for damage to property or bodily
injury, including death, which may arise from the operations under the
registration or in connection therewith. Unless the rules promulgated by the
registration sticker administrator require a higher amount, such insurance
shall provide coverage of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence. The policy shall further provide that it may not be cancelled
except upon thirty (30) days' written notice served upon the Village of Roxana.
A registration issued pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be
invalid at any time the insurance required herein is not maintained and
evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with the Village of Roxana.
   N.   Temporary mobile food vendor registration stickers issued to mobile
food vendors for either Village-approved special events or Village-sponsored
special events shall be valid only for the dates provided on the sticker, not
to exceed four consecutive days, and shall be event specific.
      1.   Each event shall require a separate application and registration
sticker.
         a.   Vendors who have paid for and been issued an annual mobile food
vendor registration sticker are not required to obtain a daily food vendor
registration sticker or temporary mobile food vendor registration sticker to
participate in a Village-approved special event.
         b.   The fee for this temporary registration sticker shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00) as recited in section
5-9-4 A2(b).
   O.   Registered mobile food vendors are required to complete and submit the
Illinois Department of Revenue ST-2 Multiple Site Form on behalf of the Village
of Roxana for each applicable reporting period.
   P.   Location requirements. Unless otherwise authorized by rules adopted
under this chapter, mobile food units may operate only in permitted locations,
or when part of a special event authorized by the Village, or with the
permission of a private property owner and in accordance with all applicable
laws and ordinances.
      1.   No mobile food unit shall be permitted to operate in a location
where it would substantially obstruct a public way, impair the movement of
pedestrians or vehicles, or pose a hazard to public safety, and in no event
shall be within sixteen (16) feet from roadway intersections.
      2.   No mobile food unit shall park, stand, or operate in a location
which is adjacent to or within ten (10) feet of the property line of a
restaurant. This requirement shall not apply to a restaurant affiliated with
the mobile food vehicle vendor. A restaurant may manifest affiliation by
written request to the registration sticker administrator as part of the
application process or at other times when seeking to affiliate with a mobile
food unit.
      3.   No mobile food unit shall operate within ten (10) feet of the
address point of any fair, carnival, circus, festival, special event, or civic
event that is registered or sanctioned by the Village except when vendor has
obtained the necessary registration.
      4.   No mobile food unit shall operate within ten (10) feet of the
address point of public parks without first obtaining written authorization and
required registration from the Village.
      5.   No mobile food unit shall operate on private property within the
corporate limits of Roxana without first obtaining written consent to operate
from the affected private property owner.
      6.   No mobile food unit shall operate in any area of the Village that
the Village President, in consultation with the Administrator of Public Works
and Zoning Administrator, has determined is unsuitable for such operation.
   Q.   Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours between seven o’clock
(7:00) a.m. and ten o’clock (10:00) p.m., excluding special events referenced
in B(1).
   R.   It shall be unlawful to operate a mobile food service operation without
a Registration Sticker as issued by this section. Violators are subject to the
general penalties of the Village of Roxana, and revocation of any Registration
Sticker issued pursuant to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Roxana.
(Ord. 1101, - -2023)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Created; Membership
6-1-2: Chief Of Police
6-1-3: Powers And Duties Of Department Members
6-1-4: Rules And Regulations
6-1-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
There is created a police department, an executive department of the village.
The police department shall consist of the chief of police and such other
members as may be provided from time to time by the village president and board
of trustees. (1981 Code § 2.20.010; amd. 2012 Code)
6-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment: The chief of police shall be appointed by the village
president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. (2012 Code)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The chief of police shall:
      1.   Keep such records and make such reports concerning the activities of
his department as may be required by statute or ordinance.
      2.   Be responsible for the performance by the police department of all
its functions, and all persons who are members of the department shall serve
subject to the orders of the chief of police. (1981 Code § 2.20.040; amd. 2012
Code)
      3.   Be custodian of all lost, abandoned or stolen property in the
village. (1981 Code § 2.20.050)
6-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
   A.   It is the duty of the members of the police department to see to the
enforcement of all provisions of this code and other ordinances of the village,
and of all statutes effective in the village, and to preserve order and to
prevent infractions of the law and to arrest violators thereof. Every member of
the police department is declared to be a conservator of the peace. (1981 Code
§ 2.20.020)
   B.   It is the duty of every member of the police department to conduct
himself in a proper and law abiding manner and to avoid the use of unnecessary
force. (1981 Code § 2.20.030)
6-1-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The chief of police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
guidance of the members of the department as he shall see fit. Such rules, when
approved by the village president and board of trustees, shall be binding on
the members. (1981 Code § 2.20.050)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Composition; Appointment Of Department Members
6-2-2: Volunteer Department
6-2-3: Command At Fires And Training Sessions; Volunteers To Carry
Identification
6-2-4: Unauthorized Use Of Fire Apparatus
6-2-1: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
The fire department of the Village shall consist of the Village President, the
Fire Chief, the Deputy Fire Chief, the Fire Captain, the Engineer, Firefighter,
and not exceeding fifteen (15) volunteer firefighters. The Fire Chief, Deputy
Fire Chief and Fire Captain shall be appointed by the Village President with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees. (Ord. 778, 2-19-2001; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 1116, 1-15-2024)
6-2-2: VOLUNTEER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Residency: The paid-on-call volunteer firefighters shall be divided as
equally as may be possible throughout the various areas of the village. Paid-
on-call Volunteer firefighters shall reside either within: 1) the corporate
limits of the village, 2) the areas within which the village has a contract to
provide firefighting or emergency services, or 3) a 7-mile radius from the
principal fire station serving the fire department of the village of Roxana,
excluding therefrom the state of Missouri.
   B.   Constitution And Bylaws: The volunteer fire department shall maintain a
constitution and bylaws as they believe appropriate. Prior to the amendment of
the constitution and bylaws, the volunteers shall submit the proposed changes
to the village president, village board of trustees, fire chief and village
attorney for their review and comment.
   C.   Selection: The volunteer firefighters shall be chosen by the volunteer
fire department, having due regard to the physical or mental qualifications of
the applicants. Prior to their final acceptance by the volunteer fire
department, the applicants shall be examined by the fire chief regarding their
firefighting and emergency response skills. Upon completion of the probationary
period and final approval by the volunteer fire department, the applicants
shall be sworn in by the village president in the presence of the village board
of trustees.
   D.   Tenure And Discipline: Each volunteer firefighter shall hold his or her
position at the pleasure of the volunteer fire department acting in conjunction
with its constitution and bylaws. Each volunteer firefighter shall be subject
to discipline, including suspension or expulsion, as provided by the
constitution and bylaws of the volunteer fire department.
   E.   Membership And Officers: The volunteer firefighters shall be members of
the volunteer fire department. The village president and members of the board
of trustees cannot be an elective officer of the volunteer fire department. The
elective officers shall include a president, vice president, assistant chief,
secretary and treasurer, who shall perform the usual duties pertaining to such
offices. The secretary shall keep record of attendance of volunteer
firefighters at practices, fires and meetings, and shall certify to the village
president and board of trustees the names of the volunteer firefighters
entitled to compensation. These elective officers may be paid for their service
as determined by the volunteers.
   F.   Compensation: The volunteer firefighters shall be compensated for their
services. The village president and board of trustees shall determine the rate
of compensation. The volunteer fire department may also schedule activities and
training for which the volunteers will not be compensated. The secretary of the
volunteer fire department shall determine the individual amounts due to each
volunteer firefighter in accordance with the bylaws and rules of that body and
provide that information to the village. Although the volunteer firefighters
are not village employees, the village shall pay these amounts directly to the
firefighters. Further, the village shall issue W-2 forms, and thus, the village
shall withhold amounts required by state or federal law. Payment in this manner
shall not qualify the volunteer firefighters for benefits due village employees
such as vacation or health insurance. Volunteer firefighters shall be entitled
to other benefits defined by law such as workers’ compensation and death
benefits, and eligibility for those benefits shall be determined by law.
   G.   Expenses Of Department: The expenses incurred by the volunteer fire
department shall be submitted at such regular times as the secretary of the
volunteer fire department shall determine. This shall include, but not limited
to, the reimbursement of death benefits paid, monthly meeting expenses and such
other expenses as may be incurred. Prior to its being approved by the village
board, such reimbursement statement shall be submitted to the fire chief for
review. The village president and board of trustees may determine an amount to
be paid as regular monthly meeting expenses. (Ord. 778, 2-19-2001; amd. Ord.
932, 8-6-2012, Ord. 1106, 10-2-2023)
6-2-3: COMMAND AT FIRES AND TRAINING SESSIONS; VOLUNTEERS TO CARRY
IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   The fire chief, or a regular firefighter when the fire chief is absent,
shall be in command of the fire or emergency scene. Fire scenes and emergency
scenes include the travel to and from such scenes and the related cleanup and
take down activities.
   B.   When training is called by the fire chief or the chief's designee, the
fire chief or the chief's designee shall be in command of such training.
   C.   When a volunteer firefighter is on duty, he or she shall carry an
appropriate identification furnished by the volunteer fire department.
   D.   Whoever wilfully violates any part of this section, or absents himself
or herself from any practice, fire or other duty assigned to such firefighter
without reasonable cause, shall be subject to such penalty as the fire chief
may determine to be appropriate. This may include immediate removal or
reassignment of duty. Additional disciplinary action may include suspension or
discharge from the department according to the rules described herein. (Ord.
778, 2-19-2001)
6-2-4: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF FIRE APPARATUS:
   A.   No person shall use any fire apparatus for any private purpose
whatever, nor, without authority, remove the same from its place of deposit,
nor shall any person having charge of any fire apparatus permit the same to be
used for any private purpose.
   B.   Any volunteer firefighter seeking to use any fire apparatus for a
parade, educational, public relations or other similar purpose shall first
obtain the consent of the fire chief or the chief's designee.
   C.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, any person who
violates this section shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 778, 2-19-2001)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCIES
ARTICLE A. EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Created; Purpose
6-3A-2: Coordinator
6-3A-3: Oath Of Office
6-3A-4: Functions
6-3A-5: Service As Mobile Support Team
6-3A-6: Mutual Aid Agreements
6-3A-7: Emergency Action
6-3A-8: Compensation
6-3A-9: Reimbursement By State
6-3A-10: Purchases And Expenditures
6-3A-11: Appropriation; Tax Levy
6-3A-1: CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby created the village emergency services and disaster agency
(hereinafter "village ESDA") to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury
or damage resulting from disaster caused by the explosion of atomic or other
means from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or
from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or other natural or
technological causes, in accordance with the Illinois emergency management act
1 . (Ord. 501, 1-5-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
6-3A-2: COORDINATOR:
   A.   The mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent of the board of
trustees, the coordinator of the village ESDA. The person so appointed shall
assume the duties as the coordinator of the village ESDA following appointment
and confirmation and after subscribing to the oath as set forth in section
6-3A-3 of this article. The coordinator shall continue to serve until a
successor coordinator is appointed, confirmed and properly subscribes to the
required oath.
   B.   The mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent of the board of
trustees, a deputy coordinator of the village ESDA who shall serve temporarily
in the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability of the coordinator
to serve. The deputy coordinator shall perform such tasks and functions as
assigned by the coordinator from time to time.
   C.   The coordinator, or in his absence, the deputy coordinator, shall have
the direct responsibility for the organization, administration, training, and
operation of the village ESDA, subject to the direction and control of the
village president as provided by statute. (Ord. 912, 4-4-2011)
6-3A-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
I,                 , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Village ESDA organization, I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence.
(Ord. 501, 1-5-1987)
6-3A-4: FUNCTIONS:
The village ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as shall
be prescribed in and by the state emergency management agency (hereinafter
"state EMA") plan and program prepared by the governor, and such orders, rules
and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor, and in addition shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality, or
quasi- municipality entered into as provided in the state EMA act. (Ord. 501,
1-5-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
6-3A-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   All or any members of the village ESDA organization may be designated
as members of a mobile support team created by the director of the state EMA as
provided by law. (Ord. 501, 1-5-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
coordinator of the village ESDA organization. The coordinator may be the leader
of such mobile support team.
   C.   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the governor, or the state director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from
the state reasonable compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 501, 1-5-1987)
6-3A-6: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The coordinator of the village ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with
other cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement
shall be effective until it has been approved by the village president, the
board of trustees and the director of the state EMA. (Ord. 501, 1-5-1987; amd.
2012 Code)
6-3A-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of Illinois of an explosion of atomic or other means from without or by means
of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure or other natural or technological causes, it shall
be the duty of the village ESDA to cooperate fully with the state EMA and with
the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 501,
1-5-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
6-3A-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the village ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village,
if called for training by the state director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the village
president. (Ord. 501, 1-5-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
6-3A-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The state treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the village ESDA as prescribed by the director of the state EMA,
compensation for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team
while serving outside the village in response to a call by the governor or
director of the state EMA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made
by the state incident to ESDA activities as provided by law. (Ord. 501, 1-5-
1987; amd. 2012 Code)
6-3A-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The village president or, in his absence or inability to serve, the
president pro tem of the village board of trustees, may, on recommendation of
the village coordinator of ESDA, authorize any purchase of contracts necessary
to place the village in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting
from the explosion of atomic or other means from without or by means of
sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure or other natural or technological causes.
   B.   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the village coordinator
of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the state EMA act; provided, that if the village board of
trustees meets at such time, the village coordinator of ESDA shall act subject
to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body. (Ord. 501, 1-5-1987;
amd. 2012 Code)
6-3A-11: APPROPRIATION; TAX LEVY:
The board of trustees may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law, and may levy, in addition, for ESDA purposes only, a tax not
to exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed
value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by
the state EMA act; however, that amount collectible under such levy shall in no
event exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (Ord. 501, 1-5-1987; amd.
2012 Code)
ARTICLE B. CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-3B-1: Definitions
6-3B-2: Declaration Of Emergency
6-3B-3: Curfew
6-3B-4: Executive Orders; Duration Of Emergency
6-3B-5: Provisions Not Exclusive
6-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion, within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare; or
   B.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village, except
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to said civil emergency. (Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
6-3B-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever an emergency, as defined in section
6-3B-1 of this article, exists, the village president shall declare the
existence by means of a written declaration setting forth the facts which
constitute the emergency. In the absence of the village president, the village
president pro tem shall act in the president's place. (Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
6-3B-3: CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the village president, he or she may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or
to the village as a whole as the village president deems advisable, and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary
in the interest of the public safety and welfare. (Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
6-3B-4: EXECUTIVE ORDERS; DURATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the village president may
also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any and all of the
following orders:
      1.   Order the closing of all retail businesses wherein the consumption
or sale of intoxicating liquor, beer or wine is permitted.
      2.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
      3.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
      4.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms, or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
      5.   Order the closure of any retail or other business necessary for the
protection of the public. However, refinery or heavy industrial operations
shall not be shut down without consultation with the appropriate environmental
protection agencies and an order of court. Such order shall not be obtained
without prior notice to the refinery or heavy industrial operation.
      6.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   B.   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of
forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the
village president indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The
village president shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil
emergency at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time the
said civil emergency exists.
   C.   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the chief of police
(or the chief's designee) shall notify the news media serving the village.
(Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
6-3B-5: PROVISIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this code giving powers to the police and fire departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the village. (Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
ARTICLE B. CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-3B-1: Definitions
6-3B-2: Declaration Of Emergency
6-3B-3: Curfew
6-3B-4: Executive Orders; Duration Of Emergency
6-3B-5: Provisions Not Exclusive
6-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion, within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare; or
   B.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village, except
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to said civil emergency. (Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
6-3B-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever an emergency, as defined in section
6-3B-1 of this article, exists, the village president shall declare the
existence by means of a written declaration setting forth the facts which
constitute the emergency. In the absence of the village president, the village
president pro tem shall act in the president's place. (Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
6-3B-3: CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the village president, he or she may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or
to the village as a whole as the village president deems advisable, and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary
in the interest of the public safety and welfare. (Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
6-3B-4: EXECUTIVE ORDERS; DURATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the village president may
also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any and all of the
following orders:
      1.   Order the closing of all retail businesses wherein the consumption
or sale of intoxicating liquor, beer or wine is permitted.
      2.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
      3.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
      4.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms, or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
      5.   Order the closure of any retail or other business necessary for the
protection of the public. However, refinery or heavy industrial operations
shall not be shut down without consultation with the appropriate environmental
protection agencies and an order of court. Such order shall not be obtained
without prior notice to the refinery or heavy industrial operation.
      6.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   B.   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of
forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the
village president indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The
village president shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil
emergency at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time the
said civil emergency exists.
   C.   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the chief of police
(or the chief's designee) shall notify the news media serving the village.
(Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
6-3B-5: PROVISIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this code giving powers to the police and fire departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the village. (Ord. 776, 1-2-2001)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Dogs And Cats
6-4-3: Restricted Animals
6-4-4: Rabies Control
6-4-5: Vicious Animals At Large Prohibited
6-4-6: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-4-7: Sanitary Housing
6-4-8: Treatment Of Animals
6-4-9: Kennels
6-4-10: Enforcement And Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person appointed by the village as having the
overall control and responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter.
CAT: Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
DOG: Any canine, regardless of age or sex.
HUMANE SOCIETY: Any chartered, not for profit organization authorized to do
business in this state and organized for the purpose of preventing cruelty to
animals and promoting humane care and treatment of animals.
INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection subcutaneously of antirabic vaccine
as approved by the department of agriculture of the state of Illinois.
KENNEL: Any structure or premises, or portion thereof, on which more than four
(4) dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals over four (4) months of age
are kept. This definition applies to any person, partnership, or corporation
engaged in the business of breeding, buying, selling or boarding dogs or cats
or engaged in the business of breeding, buying, selling or boarding animals of
any species.
LEASH: A cord, rope, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the collar or
harness of the animal and shall be of sufficient strength to keep the animal
under control.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in a dog or cat, or who keeps or
harbors a dog or cat, or who has it in his (her) care, or acts as its
custodian, or who permits a dog or cat to remain on or about any premises
occupied by him (her) for a fourteen (14) day period or longer.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, company, or corporation.
POUNDKEEPER: The village employee assigned the responsibilities of handling,
confining, and transferring animals taken up under the provisions of this
chapter.
RESTRAINT: A dog or cat is under "restraint", within the meaning of this
chapter, if it is controlled by a leash, within a vehicle being driven or
parked on the streets, or within the property limits of the owner or keeper.
(Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997; amd. 2012 Code)
6-4-2: DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   License And Inoculation Required; Tag:
      1.   License Required; Fee: Every owner of a cat or dog over the age of
four (4) months shall procure a license from the village clerk on or before May
1 of each year. Cats or dogs acquired subsequent to May 1 or attaining the age
of four (4) months or older in any calendar year shall be licensed within ten
(10) calendar days after such event. New residents of the village who are cat
or dog owners shall license such cats or dogs within ten (10) days of becoming
a village resident. The annual license fee shall be five dollars ($5.00) for
each cat or dog. No fee shall be required for any humane society, veterinary
hospital or village animal control facility or school. Replacement tags may be
obtained from the clerk for a fee of one dollar ($1.00). (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-
1997, eff. 5-1-1997; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Rabies Inoculation Required: Every cat or dog four (4) months of age
or older located in the village shall be inoculated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian. Proof of a current, valid inoculation shall be presented
to the village clerk before the clerk shall issue a license.
      3.   Tag Issued: Upon receipt of the required fee, inoculation
validation, and other necessary information to enforce this chapter, the clerk
shall issue a durable tag, stamped with an identification number and with the
year of issuance. The owner shall attach the cat or dog tag to a collar which
shall be worn by the cat or dog at all times. It is presumed that a cat or dog
not wearing a current tag is unlicensed and not currently inoculated. Cat or
dog license and identification information shall be of public record. (Ord. 97-
696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997)
   B.   Number Of Dogs And Cats: No person or corporation, except in the case
of a state licensed kennel or cattery, may own or license a total of more than
four (4) cats or dogs, or any combination thereof, located within the village
limits. In addition, it is prohibited for a total of four (4) or more cats or
dogs, or any combination thereof, to be kept, harbored, live on or remain on or
about a single residence, lot, building or location regardless of whether or
not such cats or dogs are licensed. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997;
amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Running At Large; No Tag; Excrement Removal:
      1.   No dog or cat shall be permitted to run at large in the village, and
it shall be the duty of the owner of every cat or dog to keep such animal
contained on the owner's premises. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large
when it is off the property of his (her) owner and is not under restraint by a
competent person.
      2.   Any dog or cat found in the village either without a current license
tag or running at large shall be deemed a nuisance. In addition to the penalty
provisions provided herein, such cat or dog may be impounded as provided in
this chapter. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997)
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog or cat
to be on property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person
unless such person has in his immediate possession an appropriate device for
scooping excrement and an appropriate depository for the transmission of
excrement to a receptacle located upon property owned or possessed by such
person. This subsection C3 shall not apply to a person who is visually or
physically disabled. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Disturbing The Peace: It is hereby deemed to be a disturbance of the
peace for any person to own, possess or allow a dog to habitually bark, howl or
yelp or a cat to habitually cry or howl so as to disturb the peace of any
person or family due to unreasonable and excessive noise.
      2.   Injury To Property; Defecation: It shall be unlawful for any person
owning or possessing a dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any
sidewalk, parkway, or private lands or premises without the permission of the
owner of such premises and break, bruise, tear up, crush or injure any lawn,
flowerbed, plant, shrub, tree or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to
defecate thereon. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997)
6-4-3: RESTRICTED ANIMALS:
Except where a special use permit has been granted, it is unlawful to keep any
cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine, pigs, goats, chickens, ducks, turkeys,
geese, or other livestock or farm animals or any and all other animals, or wild
or dangerous animals. Any such animals which may be permitted must be fenced,
chained, corralled, or otherwise restrained for the protection of the public as
the animal control officer deems necessary for the health and safety of the
public. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997; amd. 2012 Code)
6-4-4: RABIES CONTROL:
It is the duty of all officers and employees of the village to cooperate and
comply with the county rabies control program and such other applicable laws
and statutes. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997)
6-4-5: VICIOUS ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit or allow any vicious, unruly
or mischievous animal, owned or kept by him, to run or go at large in the
village to the danger or annoyance of any person, or the injury or damage of
any property. (1981 Code § 6.16.030)
6-4-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Impoundment: The animal control officer, the poundkeeper, or any
authorized village employee may impound any cat, dog or other animal which is a
nuisance, running at large or is without proper tags. Animals picked up by the
village under the provisions of this chapter shall be impounded and later
transferred to the county rabies control facility.
   B.   Redemption And Disposition Of Impounded Animals: The owner of an
impounded animal shall be entitled to redeem any such animal during the time
that the animal is in the possession of the village. No untagged cat or dog may
be redeemed until the owner provides proof of a current, valid license and
rabies inoculation. The fees and expenses stated in subsection D of this
section shall be paid before the animal will be delivered to the owner. Animals
not redeemed by the owner from the village shall be transferred to the county
rabies control in accordance with village practices and procedures.
   C.   Record Of Impoundment: Immediately after impounding any animal under
the provisions of this chapter, it is the duty of the poundkeeper to enter upon
the records of the pound, in a book to be kept for such purposes, the date of
impoundment, a description of the animal impounded and a record as to whether
or not such animal has been licensed and tagged as required by this chapter.
   D.   Impoundment Fees:
      1.   The fee for impounding and keeping an animal shall be five dollars
($5.00), plus boarding expenses of three dollars ($3.00) per day.
      2.   All fees and/or expenses received by the animal control officer, or
designee, or the village clerk in the execution of this chapter shall be turned
over to the village treasurer within a twenty four (24) hour period for deposit
in the appropriate village account by the village treasurer. The animal control
officer, or his (her) designee, or village clerk shall in no case receive
additional compensation or expenses for carrying out the duties of his office.
(Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997)
6-4-7: SANITARY HOUSING:
Any owner utilizing an outdoor pen to confine animals shall keep the pen in a
sanitary condition so that it will not be objectionable in terms of sight and
odor. Failure to comply with this section shall be declared a public nuisance
and subject to the penalties provided by this chapter. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997,
eff. 5-1-1997)
6-4-8: TREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
It is unlawful to overdrive, overload, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate, or kill, or cause or procure to
be so overdriven, overloaded, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or killed, or cruelly treated, any
animal (the word "animal", as used in this subsection, shall be taken to mean
any living creature) and, having the charge or custody of any such animal,
either as owner or otherwise, to unnecessarily fail to provide such animal with
proper food and drink, or expose the same to inclement weather. (1981 Code §
6.16.050)
6-4-9: KENNELS:
The operation of a kennel is permitted under the regulations of this chapter.
The kennel must be licensed and regulated by the state of Illinois and conform
to section
10-9-11 of this code. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997)
6-4-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: The village may appoint an animal control
officer or poundkeeper to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. In addition,
the village may designate such other employees as are necessary to assist the
animal control officer or poundkeeper in the completion of their duties.
   B.   Complaints: Subject to final review by the village attorney,
individuals may file complaints against persons alleged to have violated this
chapter.
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for the violation of any and all sections of this
chapter shall be as determined by the court within the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 97-696, 3-17-1997, eff. 5-1-1997)
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Damage To Property
6-5A-2: Deposit Of Injurious, Noxious Materials On Public Ways
6-5A-3: Theft
6-5A-4: Posting Or Distributing Advertising
6-5A-5: Trespass
6-5A-1: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   It is unlawful to commit any of the following acts:
      1.   Knowingly damage the property of another without his consent;
      2.   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage the property of
another;
      3.   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his consent;
      4.   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound thereby
intending to interfere with the use by another of the land or building; or
      5.   Knowingly and without authority enter any vehicle of another without
his consent. (1981 Code § 9.04.010)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously in any way
break, discolor, deface, injure, damage or destroy any public or private
building, or any tree, grass, shrub or other public property or the private
property of another without consent.
   C.   Whoever shall wilfully, maliciously, or negligently break, deface,
destroy, or otherwise injure any public property of the state, county, or
village, or any private property, or shall molest or disturb any gate, sign,
box, barrel, or other property, public or private, shall be subject to penalty
as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code, and shall also be liable for the costs and expenses of
repairing the injuries done.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously, without
consent, change, remove, alter or destroy any stone, stake, or post set or
placed to mark a corner of any lot or parcel of ground, street or alley or to
show the grade of any street, alley or sidewalk of the village.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to remove any barricade erected in front
of or about any defective sidewalk or street or any excavation or construction
project within the village, or in any way interfere with, change or destroy
such barricade, until the proper repair or construction is completed. (Ord.
462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5A-2: DEPOSIT OF INJURIOUS, NOXIOUS MATERIALS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
It is unlawful for any person to deposit or abandon any injurious or obnoxious
materials, waste or debris on the traveled way of any street or public way in
the village. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5A-3: THEFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain or exert unauthorized control of
property of the owner with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of the
use or benefit of the property. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5A-4: POSTING OR DISTRIBUTING ADVERTISING:
It is unlawful for any person to expose, display, post, exhibit, or cause to be
placed any placard, poster, bill, political campaign material or picture of any
event, show, exhibition, theatrical or other performance or any advertisement
on any public building or any public billboard, wall, grounds, fence, or
vehicle, on any street in the village. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-
18-1988; 2012 Code)
6-5A-5: TRESPASS:
It is unlawful for any person to enter any private premises against the consent
of the owner or occupant thereof, or to trespass upon any private premises or
public grounds, or injure, take away or destroy any tree, shrub, fruit, flower,
vegetable or other thing which may be thereon for ornament or utility. (Ord.
462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS, HEALTH AND SAFETY
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Assault, Battery And Fighting
6-5B-2: Disturbing The Peace
6-5B-3: Disturbing Lawful Assemblies
6-5B-4: Disorderly Conduct
6-5B-5: Fires And Fire Department Equipment
6-5B-6: Discharge Of Firearms
6-5B-1: ASSAULT, BATTERY AND FIGHTING:
   A.   Assault: It is unlawful for any person to commit an assault, without
lawful authority, by engaging in conduct which places another in reasonable
apprehension of receiving a battery.
   B.   Battery: It is unlawful for any person to commit a battery by
intentionally or knowingly, without legal justification and by any means:
      1.   Causing bodily harm to an individual; or
      2.   Making physical contact of any insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   C.   Fighting: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a
fight or to fight in any public place in the village.
   D.   Penalty: Whoever shall assault, strike or fight another, or shall be
guilty of any conduct calculated to provoke a breach of the peace, shall be
subject to the penalty provisions set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5B-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   Whoever shall disturb the peace and quiet of the village or any citizen
thereof, or shall be guilty of any violent, tumultuous, offensive or disorderly
conduct, or shall make any loud or unusual noise or disturbance, or shall use
obscene, profane, vulgar, offensive or unseemly language to the annoyance,
disturbance, or vexation of others, or tending to debauch the public morals,
shall be subject to penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to disturb the peace of the village or
the quiet of any private family or person therein by loud or unusual noises, or
by violent or tumultuous carriage, or by shouting, cursing, quarreling,
challenging to fight or fighting, or by displaying or flourishing any pistol,
revolver, slungshot, metallic knuckles, bowie knife, dirk, razor, or other
dangerous or deadly weapon, in a boisterous or threatening manner, or by any
other disorderly conduct calculated to produce a breach of the peace.
   C.   Whoever shall knowingly suffer or permit any person or any assemblage
of persons for the purpose of disturbing the peace, or of committing any
unlawful act, or any breach of the peace, or any riotous, tumultuous, offensive
or disorderly conduct, or any loud or unusual noise or disturbance, or obscene,
offensive, profane or unseemly language to the annoyance, disturbance or
vexation of others, in or upon any premises owned or occupied by him or her or
under his or her control, shall be subject to penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5B-3: DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
Whoever shall disturb any lawful assemblage of persons, or shall on any day
disturb the peace or quiet of any private family, shall be subject to penalty
as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5B-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
      1.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
      2.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the village
fire department or to the fire department of any other city, town, or village
or any fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time of
such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists; or
      3.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to another a
false alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature or a
container holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or
radioactive substance is concealed in such place that its explosion or release
would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb, explosive or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive
substance is concealed in such place; or
      4.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to any peace
officer, public officer or public employee a report to the effect that an
offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been committed, knowing
at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense will be committed, is being committed, or has
been committed; or
      5.   Enters upon the property of another and, for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; or
      6.   While acting as a "collection agency", as defined in the "collection
agency act" 1 , or as an employee of such collection agency, and while
attempting to collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged
debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor; or
      7.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the
department of children and family services under section 4 of the "abused and
neglected child reporting act" 2 ; or
      8.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the
department of public health under the nursing home care act 3  or the MR/DD
community care act 4 ; or
      9.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the village
police department or fire department, or the police or fire department of any
other municipality, or any fire protection district, or any privately owned and
operated ambulance service, a false request for an ambulance, emergency medical
technician-ambulance or emergency medical technician- paramedic knowing at the
time there is no reasonable ground for believing that such assistance is
required; or
      10.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report under article
II of "an act in relation to victims of violence and abuse", approved September
16, 1984, as amended; or
      11.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to any public
safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe that
transmitting such a report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the
public; or
      12.   Calls the number "911" for the purpose of making or transmitting a
false alarm or complaint and reporting information when, at the time the call
or transmission is made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for
making the call or transmission and further knows that the call or transmission
could result in the emergency response of any public safety agency; or
      13.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a threat of destruction of a
school building or school property, or a threat of violence, death, or bodily
harm directed against persons at a school, school function, or school event,
whether or not school is in session. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-
1988; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Whoever shall conduct himself in a riotous, disorderly, indecent, or
unbecoming manner at any place of exhibition or amusement shall be subject to
penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 425/1 et seq.
2 2. 325 ILCS 5/4.
3 3. 210 ILCS 451/1-101 et seq.
4 4. 210 ILCS 47/1-101 et seq.
6-5B-5: FIRES AND FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Hindering Firefighters; Disorderly Conduct At Fires: Whoever shall, at
any time, hinder, delay, resist, or obstruct any officer, firefighter, or other
person in the discharge of his duty, or shall neglect or refuse to obey the
lawful commands of any officer, or shall conduct himself in a riotous or
disorderly manner, shall, in every such case, be subject to penalty as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Injuring Or Destroying Firefighting Equipment: Whoever shall wilfully,
maliciously, or negligently break, deface, or otherwise injure or destroy any
fire engine or apparatus belonging to the village or to any fire company shall
be subject to penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5B-6: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to discharge or fire any type of gun or weapon
within the limits of the village, regardless of whether the charge be propelled
by compressed air, gas, powder, spring or any other means, except upon premises
used by a duly approved gun club, shooting gallery or rifle club; provided,
that the provisions of this section shall not apply to the discharge of
firearms by police or other village officers in the discharge of their duties.
(Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES INVOLVING GOVERNMENT FUNCTIONS
SECTION:
6-5C-1: Resisting A Police Officer
6-5C-2: Refusal To Aid A Peace Officer
6-5C-3: Interference With An Institution Of Education
6-5C-1: RESISTING A POLICE OFFICER:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to resist any member of the police force
in the discharge of his duty, or to in any way interfere with or hinder the
officer from discharging that duty as such a member, or to offer or endeavor to
do so. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988; 2012 Code)
   B.   Whoever shall wilfully hinder, delay, resist or obstruct any officer,
or any person legally authorized by the officer, in the discharge of his duty,
or shall aid, abet or encourage any such hindering, delaying, resisting or
obstructing, or shall neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order or directions
of any such officer shall be subject to the penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5C-2: REFUSAL TO AID A PEACE OFFICER:
Whoever, upon command, refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person
known by him to be a peace officer in apprehending a person whom the officer is
authorized to apprehend or preventing the commission by another of any offense
shall be subject to the penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5C-3: INTERFERENCE WITH AN INSTITUTION OF EDUCATION:
A person commits the offense of interference with an institution of education
when, on the property of an institution of education or at a facility operated
or being used by the institution and without authority from the institution:
   A.   Denies to an employee, student, or person rightfully thereon of the
institution:
      1.   Freedom of movement at such place; or
      2.   Use of the property or facilities of the institution; or
      3.   The right of ingress or egress to the property or facilities of the
institution; or
   B.   Wilfully impedes, obstructs, interferes with or disrupts:
      1.   The performance of the institutional duties by the board of
education or employee of the institution;
      2.   The pursuit of educational activities as determined or prescribed by
the institution, by a board member, or employee of the institution; or
   C.   Knowingly occupies or remains in or at any building or property or
other facility owned, operated by, or currently being used by the institution
after due notice to depart. (Ord. 477, 7-16-1984)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING LIQUOR OR DRUGS
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Public Consumption Of Liquor
6-5D-2: Minors In Possession Of Liquor
6-5D-3: Possession Of Cannabis 1
(Rep. by Ord. 1003, 9-19-2016)
6-5D-4: Sale, Gift, Display Or Possession Of Synthetic Cannabinoid
6-5D-5: Possession Of Cannabis And Cannabis Paraphernalia
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-5D-5 of this article.
6-5D-1: PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR:
It is unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverage or liquor on any
public street, sidewalk or other public property in the village. (Ord. 462, 3-
15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
6-5D-2: MINORS IN POSSESSION OF LIQUOR:
It shall be illegal for any person of less than twenty one (21) years of age to
have possession or control of any alcoholic liquor within the village limits.
(Ord. 923, 9-6-2011)
6-5D-3: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS 1
:
(Rep. by Ord. 1003, 9-19-2016)
 
Notes
1 2. See section 6-5D-5 of this article.
6-5D-4: SALE, GIFT, DISPLAY OR POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and/or
phrases shall have the meanings set forth in this subsection:
    ILLEGAL SMOKING PRODUCT: Any substance, whether, described as tobacco,
herbs, incense, spice or any blend thereof, regardless of whether the substance
is marketed for the purpose of being smoked, which includes any one or more of
the following chemicals:
      1.   2-[1R,3S)-3-hydroxxycyclohexyl]-5-(2- methyloctan-2-yl) phenol (also
known as CP47, 497) and homologues;
      2.   (6aS, 10aS)-9-(hydroxmethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3- (2 methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10, 10- tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1ol) (also known as HU-211 or
dexanabinol);
      3.   1-pentyl-33-(1-napthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-018); or
      4.   Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-073).
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability
company, firm, association, or retainer, or any licensed or unlicensed
business.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Sale, Gift Or Display: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell,
offer to sell, gift or publicly display for sale any illegal smoking product.
      2.   Possession: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly possess any
illegal smoking product.
   C.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   Each day a violation of this section exists shall be considered a
separate offense.
      2.   The village attorney may institute any action for injunctive relief
to enforce the provisions of this section.
      3.   Every act or omission constituting a violation of any of the
provisions of this section by any agent or employee of any person shall be
deemed and held to be the act of such person, and said person shall be
punishable in the same manner as if said act or omission was with the scope of
employment or the scope of authority of such agent or employee.
      4.   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 909, 12-20-2010)
6-5D-5: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS AND CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and/or
phrases shall have the meanings set forth in this subsection:
    CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any part of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA: Includes all equipment, products and materials of
any kind which are peculiar to, or marketed for use, or are used, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis in violation of the cannabis
control act. It includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use, or used in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis;
      2.   Isomerization devices peculiar to, marketed for use, or used in
increasing the potency of any species of plant that is cannabis;
      3.   Testing equipment peculiar to, marketed for private home use in, or
used for, identifying or analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis;
      4.   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to, or marketed for use in, or
used for, cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
      5.   Objects peculiar to, marketed for use in, or used for ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body including, where applicable, the following terms:
         a.   Water pipes;
         b.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         c.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         d.   Carburetor pipes;
         e.   Electric pipes;
         f.   Air driven pipes;
         g.   Chillums;
         h.   Bongs;
         i.   Ice pipes or chillers;
      6.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this section.
   B.   Possession Unlawful: It is unlawful for any person knowingly to possess
cannabis and/or paraphernalia as described herein for the use thereof. A person
who knowingly possesses cannabis in a quantity of less than thirty grams (30
g), is guilty of the offense hereunder for which the court shall impose a
minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   C.   Possession Of Paraphernalia Related To The Use Of Cannabis:
      1.   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis
into the human body, or in preparing a cannabis substance for that use, is
guilty of the offense hereunder for which the court shall impose a minimum fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   In determining intent under subsection C1 of this section, the
proximity of the cannabis drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis on the
drug paraphernalia may be considered.
   D.   Exempt Items; Determination:
      1.   Exempt Items:
         a.   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding,
packaging, labeling, or other use of cannabis as an incident to lawful
research, teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale; or
         b.   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
         c.   Items exempt under this subsection include, but are not limited
to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling
papers.
         d.   Items listed in the definition of "cannabis paraphernalia" as
defined in this section which are marketed for decorative purposes, when such
items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for
any illicit purpose prohibited by this section.
      2.   Considerations: In determining whether or not a particular item is
exempt under this section, all other logically relevant factors should be
considered, including the following:
         a.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the
item involved has been put;
         b.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the item
upon its functioning;
         c.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
         d.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
         e.   Any national or local advertising, concerning the design, purpose
or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
         f.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
         g.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         h.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
   E.   Applicability Of Provisions: The provisions of this section relating to
the possession of cannabis shall be applicable to the possession of any
quantity of cannabis less than thirty grams (30 g). (Ord. 1003, 9-19-2016)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Curfew
6-6-2: Truancy
6-6-3: Tobacco Possession
6-6-4: Trick-Or-Treating
6-6-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: Whenever used in this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CURFEW HOURS:
      1.   Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day; and
      2.   Eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on any Friday or Saturday
until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN:
      1.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
         1. Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave a premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or by the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the village during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits or, by insufficient control, allows the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the village during curfew
hours.
      3.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this section
that the minor was: (Ord. 821, 9-20-2004)
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor; (Ord. 821, 9-20-2004; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         c.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         d.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity without any detour or stop;
         e.   Involved in an emergency;
         f.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
         g.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official
school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by the village, a civic organization or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor; or
         h.   Married or has been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act, as amended 1
. (Ord. 821, 9-20-2004)
         i.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly. (2012 Code)
      2.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B3 of this section
that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
police department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any responsible and other circumstances, no defense
in subsection C of this section is present. (Ord. 821, 9-20-2004)
   E.   Penalties: A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00); except, that
neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court
act of 1987 2
, nor that person's legal guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In addition
to or instead of the fine imposed by this subsection, the court may order a
parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of subsection
B of this section to perform community service as determined by the court;
except, that the legal guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the
court under the juvenile court act of 1987 may not be ordered to perform
community service. The dates and times established for the performance of
community service by the parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a
violation of subsection B of this section shall not conflict with the dates and
times that the person is employed in his or her regular occupation. (Ord. 821,
9-20-2004; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 2. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
6-6-2: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words or
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
subsection:
    CHRONIC OR HABITUAL TRUANT: A child subject to compulsory school attendance
and who is absent without valid cause from such attendance for ten percent
(10%) or more of the previous one hundred eighty (180) regular attendance days.
   DROPOUT: Any child enrolled in grades 9 through 12 whose name has been
removed from the district enrollment roster for any reason other than the
student's death, extended illness, removal for medical noncompliance,
expulsion, aging out, graduation, or completion of a program of studies and who
has not transferred to another public or private school and is not known to be
homeschooled by his or her parents or guardians or continuing school in another
country.
   PERMIT TRUANCY: The action or inaction of the adult having custody or
control of any child subject to compulsory school attendance and under the
Illinois School Code 1
to knowingly or wilfully permit such child to be absent from school attendance
without valid cause so that such child shall become a truant or a chronic or
habitual truant.
   RELIGION: Includes all aspects of religious observance and practice, as well
as belief.
   TRUANT: A child subject to compulsory school attendance and who is absent
without valid cause from such attendance for a school day or portion thereof.
   TRUANT MINOR: A chronic truant to whom supportive services, including
prevention, diagnostic, intervention and remedial services, alternative
programs and other school and community resources have been provided and have
failed to result in the cessation of chronic truancy, or have been offered and
refused.
   VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE: Illness, observance of a religious holiday, death
in the immediate family, family emergency, and includes such other situations
beyond the control of the student as determined by the Board of Education in
the district, or such other circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the
parent for the safety or health of the student.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall be a "truant" as defined in subsection A of this
section.
      2.   No person shall "permit truancy" as defined in subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Complaint: A complaint for violation of this section may only be
initiated by a person previously authorized to do so by the school district
where the "truant" child attends or should attend school.
   D.   Penalties: A person found guilty of being a truant or who is found
guilty of the offense of "permit truancy" may be ordered to pay a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), perform community service, or both, for violators
thirteen (13) years of age or older. The order of the court imposing any
penalty for a violation of this section may also include an order of
supervision of the defendant in compliance with the Criminal Code of the State
of Illinois including, but not limited to, the provisions of 730 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4.5-75. (Ord. 921, 8-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 105 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
6-6-3: TOBACCO POSSESSION:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
subsection, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
 
                               A product or device not consisting of or
                               containing tobacco that provides for the
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS: ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether
                               chewing, smoking, vaporizing, absorbing,
                               dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing or by
                               any other means.
                               Any person who is above the age of eleven (11)
MINOR:                         years, but is not yet twenty-one (21) years of
                               age.
                               Any street, sidewalk, or other public right-of-
                               way or place, park, or other public place
                               including the quasi-public area in front of or
                               adjacent to any store, shop, restaurant,
PUBLIC AREA:                   luncheonette, or other place of business and
                               also including parking lots or other vacant
                               property not owned or under the control of the
                               person charged with the violation of this
                               section.
                               A public school or school offering general
                               education courses the same as ordinarily given
PUBLIC SCHOOL:                 in a public school, or a private preschool, play
                               school, special curriculum school, and any other
                               private school.
                               Any cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking
                               materials of all types, cigarette rolling
TOBACCO ACCESSORIES:           machines, and other items designed primarily for
                               the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or
                               of substances made illegal under any state
                               statute.
                               Any substance containing tobacco leaf,
                               including, but not limited to, cigarettes,
TOBACCO PRODUCTS:              cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco,
                               dipping tobacco, or items associated with
                               smoking.
 
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   The use or consumption of tobacco products or tobacco accessories
and alternative nicotine products by minors upon any public sidewalks, public
thoroughfares, public streets, public highways, public parks, or any property
of a public school, or any other public areas within the Village limits is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The possession of any tobacco products or tobacco accessories and
alternative nicotine products by minors while upon any public sidewalks, public
thoroughfares, public streets, public highways, public parks, or any property
of a public school, or any other public areas within the Village limits is
hereby prohibited.
      3.   No person shall use or consume tobacco products or tobacco
accessories and alternative nicotine products in any Village building, except
where designated.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any individual twenty-one (21) years of age
or older to knowingly or willfully cause, aid or encourage a child under the
age of twenty-one (21) years to become delinquent by purchasing for, delivering
to, or giving away tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or tobacco
accessories to said person.
      5.   It shall not be in violation of this subsection for any minor to
possess, use or consume any tobacco products, tobacco accessories or
alternative nicotine products in the performance of a religious ceremony or
while participating in a theatrical performance. (Ord. 1036, 11-19-2018; amd.
Ord. 1048, 7-15-2019)
6-6-4: TRICK-OR-TREATING:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the act of solicitation, commonly
known and referred to as "trick-or- treating", under the following
restrictions:
   A.   More than one day prior to Halloween.
   B.   At any residence where a light is not burning therein.
   C.   More than twelve (12) years of age.
   D.   At any hour other than six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. (Ord. 462, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 531, 4-18-1988)
CHAPTER 7
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Sale Or Distribution
6-7-3: Fireworks Displays
6-7-4: Penalty
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
FIREWORKS: Fireworks or any explosive device, composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by combustion,
explosion, deflagration, or detonation. "Fireworks" shall include "prohibited
fireworks" and "permitted fireworks" as defined in this section.
PERMITTED FIREWORKS: Means and includes snake or glowworm pellets, smoke
devices, trick noisemakers, also referred to as "party poppers", booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, and auto burglar alarms; sparklers,
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other similar devices and toy pistol paper
or plastic caps as hereinafter specifically defined:
Smoke Devices: Small devices made of cork or cardboard containing not more than
five grams (5 g) of pyrotechnic composition that produce a small cloud of smoke
after activation.
Snakes, Glowworms: Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that produces a
large snake like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the pellet
burns. These devices may not contain arsenic.
Snappers: Small, paper wrapped items containing not more than one milligram
(1.0 mg) of silver fulminate coated on small bits of sand or gravel.
Sparklers: Devices that consist of wire or wood dowel coated with pyrotechnic
composition that produce a shower of sparks upon ignition.
Toy Pistols, Toy Canes, Toy Guns, And Other Similar Devices: Devices in which
paper or plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of
explosive compound are used. A small report is produced upon detonation.
Trick Noisemakers: Items that produce a small report intended to surprise the
user; these devices include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Party Popper: A small device with paper or plastic exteriors that is
actuated by means of friction (pulling a string or trigger). Upon activation,
the device expels nonflammable paper streamers and/or other nonflammable
novelties and produce a small report.
   B.   Booby Trap: A small tube with string protruding from both ends, similar
in design to party poppers. Upon pulling the strings, a friction sensitive
compound ignites causing a small report.
   C.   Trick Match: A match that has been coated with a small quantity of
explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the match, a small
report or shower of sparks emits from the match.
   D.   Cigarette Load: A small wooden peg that has been coated with a small
quantity of explosive compound. Upon ignition of a cigarette containing such
device, a small report is produced.
   E.   Auto Burglar Alarm: A tube which contains a pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle when ignited. A small quantity of explosive of
which not more than fifty milligrams (50 mg) of explosive compound may be used
to produce a small report.
PROHIBITED FIREWORKS: All fireworks except "permitted fireworks" as defined in
this section and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Blank cartridges.
   B.   Toy cannons in which explosives are used.
   C.   Balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same.
   D.   Firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, bottle rockets, roman candles,
bombs or other devices of similar nature.
   E.   Any fireworks containing any explosive compound.
   F.   Any tablets or other devices containing any explosive substance, or
containing combustible substances providing visual effects.
   G.   Sparkling devices, which may produce a shower of sparks upon ignition
(except those defined as "permitted fireworks" by the U.S. department of
transportation and commonly known as "sparklers"), which include, but are not
limited to, items commonly known as "fountains", "spinners", "wheels", or
similar devices. Such prohibited sparkling devices may be ground based,
handheld, or secured to an object above ground level.
SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS: Neither the state of Illinois nor the village of
Roxana recognizes the term "safe and sane fireworks", and any item labeled as
such is subject to the definitions contained herein. The labeling of such
devices shall not determine whether the device is a permitted firework or is a
prohibited firework. (2012 Code)
6-7-2: SALE OR DISTRIBUTION:
No person, corporation or other entity may sell, hold for sale, offer for sale,
or otherwise distribute in any fashion any prohibited fireworks within the
corporate limits of the village. (2012 Code)
6-7-3: FIREWORKS DISPLAYS:
No person, corporation or other entity may discharge, detonate, or ignite any
prohibited fireworks within the corporate limits of the village except as
provided in this section.
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   A permit may be issued to the designated individual in an
organization, corporation or other entity to detonate, discharge or ignite
otherwise prohibited fireworks as part of a display for the public generally
pursuant to subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   Application for a permit to detonate, discharge or ignite prohibited
fireworks as part of a display for the public shall be made in writing to the
village clerk not less than twenty one (21) days in advance of the proposed
display along with a nonrefundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
The permit shall be issued to the individual in such organization, corporation
or other entity who shall be in charge of the detonating, discharging or
igniting such fireworks; provided, that no permit shall be issued until or
unless approved by the chief of the fire department, or his designee.
   B.   Compliance With State Law: The individual permitted to detonate,
discharge or ignite such fireworks display shall do so in compliance with the
provisions of the Illinois fireworks use act, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes
35/0.01 et seq., and the ordinances of the village. (2012 Code)
6-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person, corporation or other entity that violates any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and each day a violation by the same person,
corporation or other entity occurs shall be a separate violation. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 8
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
6-8-1: Prohibited
6-8-2: Defense To Violation
6-8-3: Penalties
6-8-4: Removal By Owner Required
6-8-1: PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise place upon the
surface of any structure or wall that is privately or publicly owned any word,
phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch, or letters, where the contents thereof are
visible to any member of the general public and contain references to sexual
activity, to any portion of the human anatomy, to gang or criminal activities,
to personal relationships or to defamatory material about public or private
persons. (2012 Code)
6-8-2: DEFENSE TO VIOLATION:
It shall be a defense to an alleged violation of section
6-8-1 of this chapter if such activity was undertaken with the prior written
consent of the owner of the property demonstrating that the owner was aware of
the content and the method by which the inscription was to be placed upon the
structure or wall. (2012 Code)
6-8-3: PENALTIES:
Upon a conviction for the violation of the prohibited conduct in section
6-8-1 of this chapter, there shall be imposed a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Additionally, a mandatory requirement shall be imposed by any court finding a
person guilty of violating the provisions of section
6-8-1 of this chapter, as a condition to any probation or supervision, that
full and complete restitution be made to the owner of the property for expenses
incurred in the removal of the material and repair of the structure or wall.
(2012 Code)
6-8-4: REMOVAL BY OWNER REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the owner of the structure or wall upon which any
inscription or representation prohibited in section
6-8-1 of this chapter is made to remove such inscription or representation and
to otherwise repair or restore the structure or wall to its prior condition
within five (5) days from the occurrence of the offense. The owner of the
property shall be entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct costs
incurred in the repair and restoration of his property from any person
convicted of the prohibited activity upon the submission of receipts evidencing
payment of such costs and provided the court entering the finding or conviction
for the offense shall so order. (2012 Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Title
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Application Of Provisions
7-1-1: TITLE:
This title may be known and cited as the TRAFFIC CODE OF THE VILLAGE, and it is
enacted by the board of trustees as an ordinance so regulating. (1981 Code §
10.04.010)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the fire department,
ambulances, and such emergency vehicles of governmental agencies or public
service corporations as are designated or authorized by the chief of police.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is more than sixteen inches (16")
in diameter.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and includes any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
HIGHWAY: See definition of Street Or Highway.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than one
hundred fifty (150) cubic centimeter piston displacement including motorized
pedalcycles.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails. For this title, "motor vehicles" are divided into two (2)
divisions:
   A.   First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten (10) persons.
   B.   Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living quarters, those
motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and
those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the second division.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLE: A bicycle type vehicle, which has tires with an overall
inflated diameter of nineteen inches (19") or more, with fully operative pedals
for propulsion by human power, equipped with a power drive system that
functions directly or automatically only and not requiring clutching or
shifting by the operator after the drive system is engaged, and a helper motor
with a cylinder capacity not exceeding fifty (50) cubic centimeter
displacement, which produces no more than two (2) brake horsepower, and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a maximum speed of no more than thirty
(30) miles per hour on level ground.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
OPERATOR OR DRIVER: Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of
a vehicle.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily, for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or merchandise.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the police department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle originally designed or permanently
converted and primarily used for living quarters or for human habitation and
not used as a commercial vehicle, including any house car, house trailer,
camper or private living coach.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the adjacent ground or shoulder.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency, or
privately owned and operated, used for the transportation of children to or
from school or school sponsored or authorized activities.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats.
STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging
passengers.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation of movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way and at the entrances to which vehicular traffic
from intersecting streets is required by law to yield the right of way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
either singly or together, while using any street for purposes of travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
proceed.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
TRUCK-TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
TRUCKSTER: Every motor vehicle or motorcycle with three (3) wheels designed,
used or maintained primarily for the transportation of property.
VEHICLE: Every device in or upon which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices manned by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign, means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left, but when the roadway is clear, may proceed into the intersection. (1981
Code §§ 10.04.020–10.04.420)
7-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Generally: The provisions of this title shall apply to the operator of
any privately or publicly owned vehicle or any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of any governmental agency, except as otherwise provided in this title.
(1981 Code § 10.08.010)
   B.   Public Employees: The provisions of this title shall apply to the
driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States
government, this state, the county, or the village, and it is unlawful for any
said driver to violate any of the provisions of this title except as otherwise
permitted in this title or by state statute. (1981 Code § 10.08.040)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7-2-1: Traffic Engineer
7-2-2: Enforcement; Authority To Direct Traffic; Obedience Required
7-2-3: Citations
7-2-4: Disposition Of Citation, Warrant And Complaint Records
7-2-5: Penalties
7-2-6: Disposition Of Fines
7-2-1: TRAFFIC ENGINEER:
   A.   Chief Of Police Serve As: The police chief shall serve as traffic
engineer, and he shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to traffic
as provided in this title.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   It shall be the general duty of the traffic engineer to determine
the proper installation, timing and maintenance of traffic control devices, to
conduct engineering investigations of traffic conditions, to plan the operation
of traffic on the streets and highways of the village and to cooperate with
other village officials and appropriate organizations in the development of
ways and means to improve traffic conditions. (1981 Code § 10.08.060)
      2.   The chief of police is empowered to make regulations necessary to
make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the village and to
make and enforce temporary regulations to cover emergency conditions. No such
temporary regulation shall remain in effect for more than ninety (90) days.
(1981 Code § 10.08.100; amd. 2012 Code)
7-2-2: ENFORCEMENT; AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Enforcement Authority: It shall be the duty of the members of the
police department to enforce all street traffic laws of the village and all of
the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the village. (1981 Code
§ 10.08.070)
   B.   Authority To Direct Traffic:
      1.   Members of the police department are authorized to direct all
traffic. In the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, members of the police department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(1981 Code § 10.08.070; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Members of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the immediate vicinity.
(1981 Code § 10.08.070)
   C.   Obedience To Police Required: No person shall wilfully fail or refuse
to comply with any lawful order or direction of any police officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic. (1981 Code §
10.08.120)
7-2-3: CITATIONS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   For offenses under this title, police officers, after taking the
name, address and operator's license number of the offender, the registration
number of the vehicle involved and other pertinent information as may be
necessary, may issue a traffic violation citation notifying the offender to
appear in court at the time designated for hearing such cases. A police officer
may, in the exercise of his discretion, make an immediate arrest of the
offender when deemed necessary to protect the public health and safety. (1981
Code § 10.68.030; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   In the event the form of citation provided under subsection A1 of
this section includes information and is sworn to as required under the general
laws of this state in respect to a complaint charging commission of the offense
alleged in said citation to have been committed, then such citation, when filed
with a court having jurisdiction, shall be deemed to be a lawful complaint for
the purpose of prosecution under this title. (1981 Code § 10.68.040)
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to fail to appear in answer to a
traffic citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such
citation was originally issued. (1981 Code § 10.68.050)
   B.   Parking Citations:
      1.   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of the
village or by state law, the police officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a
traffic citation on a form provided by the village. (1981 Code § 10.68.060)
      2.   The fact that a motor vehicle which is illegally standing or parked
is registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof
that such person was in control of the vehicle at the time of such standing or
parking. (1981 Code § 10.68.070; amd. 2012 Code)
      3.   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking
under the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of seven (7) days, the
chief of police shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
traffic citation was affixed a notice informing him of the violation and
warning him that, in the event such notice is disregarded for a period of
thirty (30) days, a warrant of arrest will be issued. (1981 Code § 10.68.080)
   C.   Canceling Citations: It is unlawful for any person to cancel or solicit
the cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner other than as provided
by this chapter; provided, however, that this subsection shall not be construed
as to prohibit the chief of police from voiding for good cause traffic
citations issued for parking violations, provided a record of any such tickets
voided and the reasons therefor is maintained. (1981 Code § 10.68.110)
7-2-4: DISPOSITION OF CITATION, WARRANT AND COMPLAINT RECORDS:
   A.   Every police officer, upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or of any
traffic ordinances of the village, shall deposit the arrest information with
the police clerk who shall cause the original to be delivered to the proper
court of the village and the duplicate copy to the central records section of
the police department.
   B.   The chief of police shall require the return to him of each traffic
citation and all copies thereof except that copy required to be retained in the
book as provided in this chapter which has been spoiled or upon which any entry
has been made and has not been issued to an alleged violator.
   C.   The chief of police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained in
connection with every traffic citation issued by a member of the police
department a record of the disposition of the charge by the proper court of the
village.
   D.   The chief of police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained a
record of all warrants issued by the court or by any other court on said
traffic violations charges and which are delivered to the police department for
service and of the final disposition of all such warrants.
   E.   Except as provided in subsection
7-2-3C of this chapter, it is unlawful and official misconduct for any member
of the police department or other officer or public employee to dispose of,
alter or deface a traffic citation, or any copy thereof, of the record of the
issuance or disposition of any traffic citation, complaint or warrant in a
manner other than as required by this section. (1981 Code § 10.68.100)
7-2-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Generally: Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every
person convicted of a violation of any provision of this title shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 509, 5-18-1987, eff. 6-1-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Parking Violations:
      1.   The penalty for all parking violations under this title shall be not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 819, 7-19-2004; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 953, 8-19-2013)
7-2-6: DISPOSITION OF FINES:
All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon forfeiture of bail
of any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this title
and all fines and forfeitures collected for violation of any of the provisions
of the state motor vehicle act, when such violations are prosecuted by the
village, shall be paid into the village treasury and deposited in the general
fund. (1981 Code § 10.68.120)
ARTICLE A. MOVING AND IMPOUNDING VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Authority To Move Vehicle
7-2A-2: Impoundment Procedures
7-2A-3: Illegally Parked Vehicles
7-2A-4: Redemption Of Impounded Vehicle
7-2A-5: Enforcement Official
7-2A-1: AUTHORITY TO MOVE VEHICLE:
In the event of any emergency necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon any
street or highway, members of the police department are authorized to remove or
relocate any such vehicle from one location to any other location. (1981 Code §
10.56.010)
7-2A-2: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Impoundment Authorized: Members of the police department are authorized
to remove, or cause to be removed, a vehicle from a street or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the police department, or otherwise maintained by the village,
under the following circumstances and to impound such vehicle until all charges
in connection therewith have been paid:
      1.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct,
railroad track, right of way, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicle
constitutes an obstruction to traffic.
      2.   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are,
by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable
to provide for its custody or removal.
      3.   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic, or
obstruction to any private driveway.
      4.   When any vehicle is upon any street, said vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned when in such a state of disrepair as to be incapable of being driven,
has not been used or moved for more than three (3) consecutive days, or is left
unattended and has become, by reason of fire, snow or any unusual happening or
occurrence, a hazard to public safety and convenience. (1981 Code § 10.56.020)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a
street as authorized in this article, and the officer knows or is able to
ascertain from the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of
the owner thereof, such officer shall give or cause to be given notice in
writing to such owner of the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and
of the place to which such vehicle has been removed. (1981 Code § 10.56.030)
   C.   Records Kept: When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided
in this article, the police headquarters or office of the law officer
authorizing the towing shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number, license
plate year and number and registration sticker year and number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow. (1981 Code § 10.56.040)
7-2A-3: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Impoundment Authorized: Whenever a motor vehicle is left parked and
unattended on a street or other property designated a public facility, which
street or other public facility has been designated by village ordinance as an
area in which parking is prohibited, and which no parking prohibition is
properly posted including designation as a "towing zone", the members of the
police department are authorized to cause such motor vehicle to be removed from
said street or other public facility by a reputable towing service. (1981 Code
§ 10.56.050)
   B.   Storing Impounded Vehicle; Release Regulations: Whenever a motor
vehicle is authorized to be removed as set forth in subsection A of this
section, the towing service shall take possession of said vehicle and safely
keep it until claimed by the owner or other person legally entitled to
possession of said vehicle. Said vehicle shall not be released until all
charges or penalties owed the village have been paid and the towing service has
verification of said payment. The towing service may impose its usual and
normal charges for towing and storage and may refuse to release the vehicle
until payment for same is received. (1981 Code § 10.56.050; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Nonliability Of Village: The village shall not be held liable for
damages in any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner
or other legal representative, or by any person, as a result of towing and
storage of said motor vehicle.
   D.   Notice Of Impoundment: Whenever a vehicle has been removed as provided
herein, the police department shall cause notice to the owner to be given as
provided in subsections 7-2A-2B and C of this article. (1981 Code § 10.56.050)
7-2A-4: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE:
Before the owner or person entitled to possession of any impounded vehicle
shall be permitted to remove the same, he shall furnish evidence of his
identity, ownership of the vehicle and his right to possession thereof and,
upon delivery, shall sign a receipt for the vehicle. (1981 Code § 10.56.060)
7-2A-5: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The chief of police shall have the responsibility of enforcing this article,
including the authorization and selection of reputable towing services. (1981
Code § 10.56.050)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Installation
7-3-2: Specifications
7-3-3: Obedience Required
7-3-4: Placement Prerequisite To Enforcement
7-3-5: Traffic Lanes
7-3-6: Crosswalks
7-3-7: Unauthorized Signs, Signals And Markings
7-3-8: Damage To Devices Prohibited
7-3-1: INSTALLATION:
The village traffic engineer shall place and maintain traffic control signs,
signals and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the
village to make effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and
maintain such additional traffic control devices as he may deem necessary to
regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the village or under state law
or to guide or warn traffic. (1981 Code § 10.12.010)
7-3-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the state highway commission or resolution or
ordinance adopted by the village president and board of trustees. All signs and
signals required under this title for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the village. All
traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this title shall be official traffic control devices. (1981 Code §
10.12.020; amd. 2012 Code)
7-3-3: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic control
device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of this
title unless otherwise directed by traffic or police officers, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this title.
(1981 Code § 10.12.030)
7-3-4: PLACEMENT PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT:
No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place. (1981 Code § 10.12.040)
7-3-5: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   The traffic engineer is authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the
roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   B.   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
   C.   Where such roadways have not been marked for traffic lanes, it shall be
unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle
within the boundary of any designated roadway. (1981 Code § 10.12.080)
7-3-6: CROSSWALKS:
The traffic engineer is authorized to maintain, by appropriate devices, marks
or lines, upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where,
in his opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(1981 Code § 10.12.090)
7-3-7: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device or railroad sign or
signal, or which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct
the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   B.   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit
upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
   C.   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to a highway of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   D.   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice. (1981
Code § 10.12.060)
7-3-8: DAMAGE TO DEVICES PROHIBITED:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device, barricade or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof. (1981 Code § 10.12.100)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
7-4-2: Through And One-Way Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
7-4-3: Speed Restrictions
7-4-4: Drive On Right
7-4-5: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
7-4-6: Turning Movements
7-4-7: Overtaking And Passing Vehicles
7-4-8: Driver Signals
7-4-9: General Driving Restrictions
7-4-10: Railroad Crossings
7-4-11: Parades And Processions
7-4-12: Golf Carts And All-Terrain Vehicles
7-4-13: Careless, Negligent Driving
7-4-1: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Of Vehicle On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle: Upon
the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of audible
or visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this state, or of a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the
driver of every vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall immediately
drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right hand
edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall stop and
remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer. This subsection shall not
operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty
to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway. (1981
Code § 10.08.090)
   B.   Fire Department Vehicles:
      1.   Following Fire Apparatus: The driver of any vehicle, other than one
on official business, shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response
to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where the apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm. (1981 Code § 10.08.140)
      2.   Driving Over Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department laid down on any street or private
driveway, to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the
fire department official in command. (1981 Code § 10.08.150)
7-4-2: THROUGH AND ONE-WAY STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets:
      1.   Designated:
         a.   All state highway routes through the village are designated as
through streets and all conditions and regulations prescribed in other
appropriate provisions of this title shall apply to state highway routes.
         b.   Those streets and parts of streets designated by separate
ordinance and in schedule III (on file in the office of the village clerk) are
hereby declared to be through streets for the purpose of those provisions cited
in subsection A1a of this section. (1981 Code § 10.24.010)
      2.   Signs Posted: Whenever any ordinance of the village designates and
describes a through street, it shall be the duty of the village traffic
engineer to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street
intersecting such through street unless traffic at any such intersection is
controlled at all times by traffic control signals; provided, however, that at
the intersection of two (2) such through streets or at the intersection of a
through street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall
be erected at the approaches of eight (8) of said streets as may be determined
by ordinances of the village from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the village board may designate that a yield sign be placed in lieu of a stop
sign in any of the foregoing situations. (1981 Code § 10.24.020)
   B.   Stop Or Yield Intersections:
      1.   Designated: The village board may determine and designate
intersections where particular hazards exist upon other than through streets
and to determine:
         a.   Whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such
intersection; or
         b.   Whether vehicles shall yield the right of way to vehicles on a
different street at such intersection, as prescribed in subsection B2b of this
section. (1981 Code § 10.24.030)
      2.   Procedures:
         a.   Stop Intersections:
            (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or
traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
            (2)   Such driver, after having stopped, shall yield the right of
way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another street or
which is approaching so closely on said street as to constitute an immediate
hazard, but said driver having so yielded may proceed, and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding. (1981 Code § 10.24.040)
         b.   Yield Intersections:
            (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in
obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions, or shall stop if necessary, and shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard. Said driver, having so yielded, may proceed,
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield
to the vehicle so proceeding; provided, however, that a driver who enters a
yield intersection without stopping and has or causes a collision with a
pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection shall, prima facie,
be considered not to have yielded as required herein. The foregoing shall not
relieve the drivers of other vehicles approaching the intersection at such
distance as not to constitute an immediate hazard from the duty to drive with
due care to avoid a collision.
            (2)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required
for safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection; or in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line; but if none, then a point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. (1981
Code § 10.24.050)
   C.   One-Way Streets: Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those
alleys designated one-way, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited. (1981 Code § 10.08.160)
7-4-3: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Specific Speed Limits Established: It is unlawful to drive any motor
vehicle on any arterial street at a speed in excess of thirty five (35) miles
per hour and all other streets in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour, or in
an alley at a speed in excess of ten (10) miles per hour. (1981 Code §
10.16.010)
   B.   Duty To Decrease Speed: The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower
than the limits set by this section and other provisions of this title shall
not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway or
when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic by
reason of weather or street conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle. (1981 Code §
10.16.020)
   C.   Increased Speed Limit Permitted: It is determined upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that the speed permitted by this section
and other provisions of this title upon those streets or portions thereof
designated by ordinance and in schedule I (on file in the office of the village
clerk) is less than necessary for the safe operation of vehicles thereon by
reason of the designation and signposting of such streets as through highways,
or by reason of widely spaced intersections, and it is declared that the
maximum speed limit upon those streets or portions thereof described in
schedule I (on file in the office of the village clerk) shall be as therein
stated, which speed so declared shall be effective when signs are erected
giving notice thereof. (1981 Code § 10.16.030)
   D.   Signs Posted: The traffic engineer is authorized to regulate the timing
of traffic signals so as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and
safe manner at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds otherwise applicable
within a district or at intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving
notice thereof. (1981 Code § 10.16.040)
7-4-4: DRIVE ON RIGHT:
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereto; or
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
      5.   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is
the wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   B.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1981 Code § 10.20.050)
7-4-5: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provided for
two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in
preparation for making a left turn, or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic control
devices.
   C.   Official traffic control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use designated lanes or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such
device. (1981 Code § 10.20.090)
7-4-6: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Turning At Intersections: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at
an intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      2.   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection, and after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      3.   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered. (1981 Code § 10.20.010)
   B.   Intersection Turn Lanes: Where traffic lanes have been marked upon the
street for "left turn only" or "right turn only" in correlation with an
intersection where a traffic control signal is installed and operated, drivers
of vehicles shall use such lanes only for the left turn or right turn, as the
case may be, and it is unlawful for any driver approaching such intersection to
drive in said lane unless he shall be intending to make a left turn or right
turn, as the case may be, in compliance with the proper signal displayed to him
by the traffic control signal. (1981 Code § 10.20.110)
   C.   Prohibited Left Turns: It is unlawful for any person to make a left
turn in any of the areas designated by ordinance and schedule II (on file in
the office of the village clerk) when signs are erected giving notice thereof.
(1981 Code § 10.20.030)
   D.   Turning To Proceed In Opposite Direction: The driver of any vehicle
shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
street in the village. (1981 Code § 10.20.040)
   E.   Signs And Signals:
      1.   Placement: The traffic engineer is authorized to place markers,
buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to
be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections.
      2.   Obedience Required: When authorized markers, buttons or other
indicators are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indicators. (1981 Code § 10.20.020)
7-4-7: OVERTAKING AND PASSING VEHICLES:
   A.   Generally: The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing
of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations,
exceptions, and special rules hereinafter stated:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1981 Code §
10.20.060)
   B.   Overtaking Vehicles On Right:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn. (1981 Code § 10.20.070)
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement or roadway
with sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving vehicles in each
direction. (1981 Code § 10.20.070; amd. 2012 Code)
         c.   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (1981 Code § 10.20.070)
   C.   Overtaking Vehicles On Left:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within two hundred feet (200') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
      2.   a. No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
            (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distances as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
            (2)   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or
crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing.
            (3)   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep
to the right or a distinctive centerline is marked, which distinctive line also
directs traffic.
         b.   The limitations in subsections C2a(1) and C2a(2) of this section
shall not apply upon a one-way roadway or upon a roadway with unobstructed
pavement of sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in
each direction when such movement can be made with safety. (1981 Code §
10.20.080)
7-4-8: DRIVER SIGNALS:
It is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to start, slow down, stop or
attempt to turn such vehicle without first giving a suitable signal in the
manner required by Illinois Compiled Statutes for such circumstances. (1981
Code § 10.20.120; amd. 2012 Code)
7-4-9: GENERAL DRIVING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Following Too Closely: The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the
highway. (1981 Code § 10.20.100)
   B.   Driving On Sidewalks: The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within
any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. (1981 Code §
10.20.140)
   C.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, and shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway. (1981 Code §
10.24.060)
   D.   Blocking Intersections: No driver shall enter an intersection or a
marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any
traffic control signal indication to proceed. (1981 Code § 10.24.070)
   E.   Backing Restrictions: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same
unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering
with other traffic. (1981 Code § 10.08.130)
   F.   Opening Vehicle Door: No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle
on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe
to do so, nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle
available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load
or unload passengers. (1981 Code § 10.20.130)
7-4-10: RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than ten feet
(10') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he
can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train.
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or a flagman gives or continues to give a
signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train.
      3.   An approaching train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed. (1981 Code § 10.24.080)
7-4-11: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: No procession or parade containing
fifty (50) or more persons or fifteen (15) or more vehicles, except the forces
of the United States army or navy, the military forces of this state and the
forces of the police and fire departments, shall occupy, march or proceed along
any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the chief of police and
in compliance with such traffic regulations as are set forth herein which may
apply. (1981 Code § 10.32.010)
   B.   Identification Required: A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles
shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of
a pennant or other identifying insignia. All vehicles in a procession shall at
all times have their headlights turned on. (1981 Code § 10.32.020)
   C.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and
shall follow the car ahead as close as is practicable and safe. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, each driver shall at all times have the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the streets, and this subsection
does not protect the driver of any such vehicle described herein from the
consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1981 Code §
10.32.030)
   D.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in
this section. (1981 Code § 10.32.040)
7-4-12: GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE: A self-propelled, four (4)
wheeled motor vehicle which is capable of attaining, within one mile, a speed
of more than ten (10) miles per hour but not more than twenty five (25) miles
per hour.
   GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purpose of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment.
   B.   Use On Public Ways Prohibited; Exceptions: The use or operation of a
golf cart, all-terrain vehicle, or utility terrain vehicle on any public
street, sidewalk, or alley within the village is hereby prohibited unless said
use is by an employee or authorized agent of a unit of local government, school
district, or state or federal government in the performance of their official
duties. (Ord. 918, 6-6-2011)
7-4-13: CARELESS, NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a careless,
negligent or wanton manner, so as to endanger life or property. (1981 Code §
10.28.020)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Method Of Parking
7-5-2: Unattended Vehicle
7-5-3: General Parking Restrictions
7-5-4: Specific No Parking Places; Moving Parked Vehicle
7-5-5: Additional Parking Restrictions; Time Limit Parking
7-5-6: Residential Parking On Certain Streets (Rep. by Ord. 953, 8-19-2013)
7-5-7: Village Parking Lots
7-5-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and other appropriate
provisions of this title, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where
there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand
wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the right
hand curb in accordance with state law. (1981 Code § 10.52.010; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Except where parking has been prohibited or where the village board,
by ordinance, has provided that angle parking shall be permitted, no person
shall park or stand a vehicle other than parallel to the curb or edge of the
roadway. (1981 Code § 10.52.020)
   B.   Angle Parking: On those streets which have been signed or marked by the
traffic engineer for angle parking, according to village ordinances, no person
shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of
the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. (1981 Code § 10.52.030)
7-5-2: UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the key; or when standing upon any perceptible grade, without effectively
setting the brake thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of
the street. (1981 Code § 10.44.040)
7-5-3: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obstructing Traffic Or Driveway Entrance: No person shall park any
vehicle upon a street or alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property.
   B.   Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited: No person shall park a vehicle
upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
      2.   Greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
   C.   Narrow Streets: When official signs prohibiting parking are erected
upon narrow streets as authorized by law, no person shall park a vehicle upon
any such street in violation thereof.
   D.   Hazardous Or Congested Places:
      1.   The village board, by ordinance, may designate places in which the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
      2.   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
   E.   Schools:
      1.   The village board may, by ordinance, provide no parking upon either
or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such parking
would, in the board's opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation.
      2.   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either
side of a street adjacent to any school property, as authorized herein, no
person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   F.   For purposes of this section only, a "side yard" is defined as a space
extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the principal building
and the side lot line, measured perpendicular from the side lot line to the
closest point of the principal building.
   G.   All vehicles in any SR-1 or MR-1 district parked in a front or side
yard shall be on an improved surface. Any vehicles which are subject to
Illinois Secretary of State licensure shall have a current Illinois
registration with the Illinois Secretary of State's Office.
   H.   An "improved surface" as used herein is defined as a continuous surface
construction of concrete, blacktop, or paving stone, which is complete and
uninterrupted underneath all portions of the vehicle being placed on the
surface.
   I.   Drainage easements shall not be encroached upon by such improved
surfaces or vehicles. (1981 Code §§ 10.52.050 through 10.52.090; amd. Ord.
1107A, 10-16-2023)
7-5-4: SPECIFIC NO PARKING PLACES; MOVING PARKED VEHICLE:
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On a sidewalk.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
         f.   On a grassed, seeded or sodded strip between the roadway and the
sidewalk or property line.
         g.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         h.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         i.   On any railroad tracks. A violation of any part of this
subsection A1i shall result in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars
($500.00) or fifty (50) hours of community service.
         j.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
         k.   On any controlled access highway.
         l.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
         m.   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (1981
Code § 10.52.040; amd. 2012 Code)
7-5-5: ADDITIONAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS; TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this section prohibiting
the standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times
herein specified or as indicated on official signs except when it is necessary
to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device. (1981
Code § 10.52.110)
   B.   Regulations Not Exclusive: The provisions of this section imposing a
time limit to parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(1981 Code § 10.52.120)
   C.   Parking Prohibited At All Times: When signs are erected giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the streets
described. (1981 Code § 10.52.130)
   D.   Parking Times Limited; Days Restricted:
      1.   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours specified on that day. (1981 Code
§ 10.52.140)
      2.   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle between the hours specified on any
day, except Sundays and public holidays, upon any of the streets described.
(1981 Code § 10.52.150)
      3.   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle for longer than the times designated on any day,
except Sundays and public holidays, upon any of the streets described. (1981
Code § 10.52.160)
   E.   Parking Longer Than Three Days: Any vehicle that remains parked upon
any public street or alley shall, after three (3) days, be deemed abandoned,
and shall, at the direction of the village police, be towed away and stored at
the expense of the owner of such vehicle. (1981 Code § 10.52.190; amd. 2012
Code)
   F.   Signs Posted: Whenever, by this chapter or any other ordinance of the
village, any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets, it shall be the duty of the traffic engineer to erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulations shall be
effective unless the signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged
offense. (1981 Code § 10.52.170)
7-5-6: RESIDENTIAL PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 953, 8-19-2013)
7-5-7: VILLAGE PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Regulations:
      1.   The village board of trustees is authorized to regulate the use of
parking lots owned or controlled by the village. The regulations may include:
a) the designation of parking places for particular purposes, e.g., for the
disabled, fire department use, police department use, or other specified use;
b) restrictions on the period of time for which parking is permitted; or c)
other purposes as permitted by law.
      2.   These regulations shall be adopted by resolution adopted from time
to time by the board of trustees, as reflected either by written resolution or
clearly set forth in the minutes of the proceedings.
   B.   Signs Posted: Signs shall be posted designating the regulations,
prohibitions or restrictions, as applicable.
   C.   Permits May Be Issued: Permits may be issued, if appropriate.
   D.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to violate such regulations,
prohibitions or restrictions.
      2.   Violation of parking reserved for the disabled shall be punished by
the laws of the state of Illinois or the ordinances of the village.
      3.   Other violations shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
chapter 2 of this title.
      4.   In addition to any other remedy, if the vehicle represents a safety
threat or if the owner or operator cannot be reasonably notified to correct the
violation, then an offending vehicle may be towed at the expense of the owner
or operator. (Ord. 704, 9-3-1997)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Application Of Regulations
7-6-2: Crosswalks
7-6-3: Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks
7-6-4: Walking Along Roadways
7-6-5: Hitchhiking Prohibited
7-6-6: Pedestrians With Disabilities
7-6-7: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
7-6-8: Penalty
7-6-1: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals. (1981 Code §
10.64.010; amd. 2012 Code)
7-6-2: CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Right Of Way:
      1.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk.
      2.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (1981 Code § 10.64.020)
   B.   Use Of Crosswalks:
      1.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except a crosswalk.
(1981 Code § 10.64.060)
      2.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curbing or other place of
safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield. (1981 Code § 10.64.020)
      3.   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (1981 Code § 10.64.030)
      4.   Pedestrians in marked or unmarked crosswalks shall proceed across
the roadway with dispatch when the way is clear. It is unlawful for pedestrians
to delay vehicular traffic which has yielded to pedestrians by deliberately
straggling, stalling or in any other way deliberately hindering such vehicles.
(1981 Code § 10.64.040)
7-6-3: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at any intersection shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (1981 Code § 10.64.050)
7-6-4: WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(1981 Code § 10.64.070)
7-6-5: HITCHHIKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to stand or loiter upon any sidewalk,
street, avenue, alley or public highway or grounds within the limits of the
village for the purpose of "thumbing", requesting, asking or soliciting a ride
from the operator of any motor vehicle.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, within the village to engage in what is
known as "hitchhiking". (1981 Code § 10.64.090)
7-6-6: PEDESTRIANS WITH DISABILITIES:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities. (1981 Code § 10.64.080; amd. 2012 Code)
7-6-7: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this title, every driver of a vehicle shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway and
shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon any child or confused or incapacitated person upon a
roadway. (1981 Code § 10.64.100)
7-6-8: PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code § 10.64.110; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 7
BICYCLES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Traffic Laws Apply
7-7-2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-7-3: Operation Of Bicycles
7-7-4: Equipment Requirements
7-7-5: Penalty
7-7-1: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles,
or by the traffic ordinances of the village applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and chapter 2,
article A of this title, and except as to those provisions of laws and
ordinances which, by their nature, can have no application. (1981 Code §
10.60.010)
7-7-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals and signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to
make any such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians. (1981 Code § 10.60.020)
7-7-3: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (1981 Code § 10.60.030)
   B.   Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths:
      1.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near
to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
      2.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
      3.   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the roadway.
(1981 Code § 10.60.040)
   C.   Speed Restriction: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing. (1981 Code §
10.60.050)
   D.   Entering Public Ways: The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all pedestrians
approaching on such sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway, shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway. (1981 Code §
10.60.060)
   E.   Riding On Sidewalks: Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (1981 Code §
10.60.090)
   F.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars. (1981 Code § 10.60.070)
   G.   Parking: No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon
the roadway against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle, or against a building, or at the curb in such a manner as to afford
the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (1981 Code § 10.60.080)
7-7-4: EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lamps And Reflector: Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible from all distances from
fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in
front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a
red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   Signal Device: No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped
with a device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least one
hundred feet (100'); except, that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor
shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   C.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1981
Code § 10.60.100)
7-7-5: PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter and
chapter 2, article A of this title shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code § 10.60.110; amd. 2012 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Permit To Construct Or Repair
8-1-2: Construction Specifications
8-1-3: Repairs And Defects
8-1-4: Safety Precautions
8-1-5: Openings In Public Ways
8-1-6: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
8-1-7: Utility Poles And Wires
8-1-8: Commercial Activities On Village Property
8-1-9: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-1-10: Penalty
8-1-1: PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the
same, without having first received approval by the village.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be to the
clerk and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair, the
extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction
work. No such permits shall be issued except where the work will conform to the
ordinances of the village.
   C.   Bond: Each applicant shall file a bond in an amount set by the public
works director with surety to be approved by the public works director
conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss or damage resulting from the
work undertaken or the manner of doing the same. (2012 Code)
8-1-2: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the village board of
trustees. (2012 Code)
8-1-3: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
   A.   Repairs Required: All public street, alley, and sidewalk pavements
shall be in good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or by
the abutting owner, shall be under the supervision of the director of public
works.
   B.   Defects Reported: It shall be the duty of every village officer and
employee becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or
any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the director of public works as
soon as possible. (2012 Code)
8-1-4: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Safety Precautions Required:
      1.   Construction And Repair Work: Any person, firm or corporation laying
or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or other public place or making
an excavation in the same, shall maintain suitable barriers and warning devices
to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the work.
      2.   Barriers And Warning Devices: Any defect in any such pavement shall
be protected with barriers and warning devices to prevent injury; and any
person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or excavation,
while the same remains open, shall guard the same with proper barriers and
warning devices.
   B.   Disturbing Safety Devices Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to disturb
or interfere with any barriers and warning devices lawfully placed to protect
or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley
or sidewalk. (2012 Code)
8-1-5: OPENINGS IN PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful to construct any opening or stairway in any public street
or sidewalk or alley without approval from the public works director. All such
lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong cover or
railing to the approval of the public works director. (2012 Code)
8-1-6: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Deposits On Streets: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or which may impede any
public right of way drainage area, or any waste material, or any glass or other
articles which may do injury to any person, animal or property.
   B.   Deposits On Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article
shall remain on such walk for more than a normal working day. (2012 Code)
8-1-7: UTILITY POLES AND WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires
over any public place, street, alley or other public way without having first
secured permission from the public works director. (2012 Code)
8-1-8: COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES ON VILLAGE PROPERTY:
On all property owned by the village, including the parking lots maintained and
owned by the village, all commercial activities by private citizens shall be
prohibited and not allowed thereon, and all parking shall not extend for more
than three (3) days without written permission from the public works director.
Upon a violation of this section by engaging in any commercial activity
thereon, or by parking for a longer period than that prescribed herein, the
same is declared to be a violation of this section, and the person guilty of
said violation shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 486, 7-15-
1985; amd. 2012 Code)
8-1-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injuring New Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement
while the same is guarded by barriers and warning devices or to knowingly
injure any soft or newly laid pavement.
   B.   Private Use; Graffiti: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to use any street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the
display of goods or merchandise for sale, or to write or make any sign or
advertisement on any such pavement.
   C.   Playing Games: It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street,
alley, or sidewalk or other public property, where such games cause unnecessary
noise or interfere with traffic or pedestrians. (2012 Code)
8-1-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (2012
Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Metered Water Required
8-2-2: Contract For Water Service
8-2-3: Service Connections
8-2-4: Rates And Charges
8-2-5: Groundwater As Potable Water Prohibited; Exception
8-2-1: METERED WATER REQUIRED:
All water to be furnished to the citizens of the village through what is
commonly known as the Roxana water system shall be supplied through approved
water meters to be furnished by the village, and not at any time by what is
designated as a flat rate. (1981 Code § 13.04.010)
8-2-2: CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICE:
All contracts for the installation of meters and the furnishing of water must
be entered into by either the owner or the tenant of the property desired to be
served and the village. In no case shall any water services be installed until
such contract is made and entered into. As used in this section, the word
"contract" shall mean establishing a water account via a deposit fee. (1981
Code § 13.04.020; amd. 2012 Code)
8-2-3: SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Installation And Approval: Each tap into the water lines shall be
subject to the approval of the water department. The village shall present the
mode of tapping, the form, and the materials for all connections to be made
with the water lines. The village shall supervise, perform, or select a
contractor to make taps and service connections. All costs for the labor and
materials for taps and service connections shall be paid to the water
department prior to water being supplied to the service. The expense of
installing, maintaining, repairing and replacing an existing or a new water
line from the property line to the point of service shall be the responsibility
of the property owner. (Ord. 835, 3-20-2006)
   B.   Connection Fees:
      1.   Residential Service:
         a.   For each new residential service connection within the corporate
limits of the village, there shall be a nonrefundable tap-on or connection fee
of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a connection up to one
inch (1") in diameter.
         b.   For each new multi-family residential service within the
corporate limits of the village, the fee in subsection B1a of this section
shall apply. Condominium units shall be deemed to be individual residential
units.
      2.   Service Outside Village Limits: For any water service connection
made to the village water distribution system to provide water service to a
location outside of the corporate limits of the village, the tap-on fee shall
be the sum of two thousand two hundred dollars ($2,200.00) for a one inch (1")
connection, and an additional cost of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per one-
fourth inch (1/4") size of the connection larger than one inch (1") in
diameter. Village labor and material costs to install such connection will
apply in addition to the tap-on connection fee. (Ord. 851, 6-18-2007)
8-2-4: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "quarter" shall
mean three (3) months of any one year, and said quarters shall commence on
December 1, March 1, June 1 and September 1 of each year.
   B.   Conditions Of Establishing An Account:
      1.   Prior to any person obtaining water service from the village, such
person must comply with the following for each account:
         a.   Comply with title 9, chapter 6 of this code, provisions which
govern residential occupancy requirements.
         b.   Pay a nonrefundable service fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) to
establish the account. This amount will then be deposited in the water
operation and maintenance fund.
         c.   Pay a deposit fee of sixty five dollars ($65.00). Interest shall
not be calculated nor applied to any amount of the deposit refund when the
account is closed.
         d.   Pay any tap-on or connecting fee, if applicable.
         e.   All fees for water service shall be made payable to the Roxana
water department.
      2.   Any funds held as the deposit shall be applied toward any
outstanding balance on the account. The remaining portion of the deposit shall
be refunded to the user upon termination of service for that account.
   C.   Classes Of Users; Rates Established: Effective June 1, 2006, the
following rates shall apply to those persons who use, purchase or order water
from the village:
      1.   Class I, residential units within the village limits (including
churches): Minimum of sixteen dollars fifty cents ($16.50) per residential unit
per quarter for the first three thousand (3,000) gallons and two dollars forty
four cents ($2.44) per user per quarter for each one thousand (1,000) gallons
or portion thereof in excess of the first three thousand (3,000) gallons.
      2.   Class II, residential and commercial units located outside the
corporate limits of the village: Minimum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
residential user per quarter and two dollars seventy five cents ($2.75) for
each one thousand (1,000) gallons or portion thereof in excess of the first
five thousand (5,000) gallons per user per quarter.
      3.   Class III, commercial and light industrial: Two dollars thirteen
cents ($2.13) per each one thousand (1,000) gallons or fraction thereof per
user per month. This shall not impair nor prohibit existing rates or rates
which have been or may be established pursuant to meeting the individual needs
of certain users, which may include current or future water users.
      4.   Class IV, large heavy industrial: One dollar sixty cents ($1.60) per
each one thousand (1,000) gallons or portion thereof per user per month.
      5.   Class V, any water sold in bulk by direct connection such as from a
hydrant meter or fire hose: Minimum of twenty dollars ($20.00) and two dollars
fifty cents ($2.50) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      6.   Class VI, village of South Roxana, Illinois, and village of
Hartford, Illinois: Two dollars twenty eight cents ($2.28) per each one
thousand (1,000) gallons or portion thereof per month. Notwithstanding the
above, this rate shall become effective May 1, 2006.
      7.   Class VII, significant industrial user fees: The Village shall
negotiate with significant industrial users individually for fee amounts and
the fees associated with water usage and services shall be laid out in the
contract between the significant industrial user and the Village.
   D.   Meter Readings: The rates charged all users shall be based upon the
meter readings taken at the end of each quarter for class I and any other users
that shall be billed quarterly, and the beginning of each month for users that
are billed or have requested monthly billing cycles. A bill, with its date
indicated, shall be sent to the user for each monthly or quarterly period, as
applicable.
   E.   Rendition Of Bills And Collection Of Payments: It is hereby made the
duty of the water department to render bills for water service and all other
charges in connection therewith and to collect all monies due thereon. It shall
also be the duty of the water department to attempt collection of any and all
delinquencies.
   F.   Payments And Delinquencies: The following shall apply for the payment
of water service:
      1.   Due Date: All accounts shall be paid in full within twenty (20) days
of the date of the bill. No discounts shall be allowed.
      2.   Late Payment Penalty: Accounts remaining unpaid after twenty (20)
days of the date of the bill shall be assessed a penalty of fifteen percent
(15%) of the outstanding balance, which amount shall be added to such
outstanding balance.
      3.   Notice Of Delinquency; Use Of Deposit; Responsibility For Other
Costs: Accounts remaining unpaid thirty (30) days after the date of the bill
are declared to be delinquent. The village water department shall notify each
user whose bill is delinquent that unless such delinquent user pays the full
amount of his outstanding balance on or before the date which is forty (40)
days after the date of the bill, that water service to such user shall be shut
off and disconnected. It shall be sufficient for this delinquent notice to be
sent by first class prepaid postage via the United States postal service. No
further notice shall be required prior to the water service being shut off or
disconnected. The water deposit on the account shall be applied to any unpaid
balance remaining, and any additional monies owed shall be billed as final
usage on the account. In addition, any delinquent party shall pay to the
village any and all attorney fees, court costs and litigation expenses incurred
necessary to enforce this section or to collect such amounts.
      4.   Disconnection Of Service; Fee: Water service shall be shut off and
disconnected for each account where the outstanding balance has not been paid
in full on or before forty (40) days after the date of the bill. The waterworks
superintendent is hereby directed, authorized, instructed and ordered to shut
off and disconnect such water service. A nonrefundable disconnect fee of thirty
dollars ($30.00) shall be added to the outstanding balance of the account for
each such user whose service is disconnected.
      5.   Final Meter Reading Or Estimate: The waterworks superintendent shall
make a final meter reading upon shutting off or disconnecting water service. In
the event that the meter is not available for inspection upon the water service
being shut off or disconnected, the waterworks superintendent shall estimate
the water usage, with five percent (5%) being added to that estimate. A final
calculation shall be made of the user's water bill, and such amount shall be
added to the outstanding balance of the account. The use of an estimated water
bill for this purpose shall not alter the user's liability if a subsequent
meter reading determines a higher liability.
      6.   Restoration Of Service: Users whose water service has been shut off
or disconnected may have water service restored within five (5) days of such
shutoff or disconnection by paying in full their outstanding balance and any
associated fees with reestablishing the service.
      7.   Account Closed: Should there remain an outstanding balance of an
account for more than five (5) days following water service being shut off or
disconnected, such account shall be considered closed. The deposit for such
account shall be applied toward payment of the outstanding balance. Should the
amount of the deposit exceed the outstanding balance, a refund will be
forwarded to the user at his last known address. Should the outstanding balance
exceed the amount of the deposit, a statement shall be sent to the user at his
last known address for the amount due.
   G.   Interpretation Of Provisions:
      1.   This section shall not abolish or extinguish any right, duty or
obligation which may exist on the effective date hereof. In the event this
section conflicts with any previous ordinance of the village regarding the
subject matter hereof, then this section shall be controlling.
      2.   The rates, fees, deposits and penalties set forth herein are
cumulative to any other rates, fees, deposits or penalties which are otherwise
provided by law. (Ord. 835, 3-20-2006; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 1097, - -2023)
8-2-5: GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Definitions:
    PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or its legal representatives,
agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
   B.   Use Prohibited; Exception: Except for such uses or methods in existence
before the effective date hereof, the use or attempt to use as a potable water
supply groundwater from within the boundaries of the corporate limits of the
village as identified on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein as
a potable water supply by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other
method is hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes the village.
(Ord. 867, 6-2-2008)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 867, 6-2-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Cross Connections Restricted
8-2A-2: Surveys And Investigations
8-2A-3: Backflow Prevention Device
8-2A-4: Entry Powers; Inspections
8-2A-5: Violations; Disconnection Of Water Service; Reconnect Fee
8-2A-6: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
8-2A-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
village may enter the supply or distribution system thereof, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the superintendent of water and
complies with the Illinois environment protection agency regulations. (Ord.
493, 3-24-1986; amd. 2012 Code)
8-2A-2: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the superintendent of water shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (Ord. 493, 3-24-1986)
8-2A-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE:
If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved device as required by the Illinois plumbing
code and local regulations. The installation thereof, being of such complex
nature, shall be made by a licensed plumber, licensed under the Illinois
requirements therefor, who has additionally been certified by the Illinois
environmental protection agency as qualified as a cross connection control
inspector. (Ord. 493, 3-24-1986)
8-2A-4: ENTRY POWERS; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the village water department
for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and
the water superintendent or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter
at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village water department for the purpose
of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross
connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the superintendent of water any
information which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded,
shall, within the discretion of the superintendent of water, be deemed evidence
of the presence of improper connections as provided in this article.
   B.   The device shall be inspected annually. The inspection shall include
physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Customers
shall notify the water department by mail no later than ten (10) days after the
inspection. The notification shall include the date of the inspection, the firm
that conducted the inspection, along with the firm's license number, and the
inspector's cross connection control certification identification number. The
results and recommendations of the inspection shall also be included in the
notification. The customer who possesses the device shall maintain detailed
records for examination by the water superintendent or his authorized agent.
Included in those records will be the manufacturer's instructions and records
regarding installation, inspection, testing, repairs and alterations. Failure
to conduct inspections or to notify the water department of said inspections
shall be deemed as negligent on the customer's part, and disconnection of the
customer's service will take place on the water superintendent's order. (Ord.
493, 3-24-1986)
8-2A-5: VIOLATIONS; DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE; RECONNECT FEE:
The village superintendent of water is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
article is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this article, and until a reconnection fee of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection with verbal
notice can be effected when the superintendent of water is assured that
imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. (Ord. 493, 3-24-1986)
8-2A-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (Ord. 493, 3-24-1986)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Connection To Public System Required; Exemptions
8-3-2: Compliance With Provisions; Exceptions
8-3-3: Approval Required
8-3-4: Connection Fees
8-3-5: Use Of Old Connections
8-3-6: Connection Requirements
8-3-7: Obstructing Sewers Prohibited
8-3-8: Responsibility For Costs
8-3-9: Inspections
8-3-10: Violations; Penalties
8-3-1: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
The use of any premises in the village in such manner as to create sewage
thereon not discharged into the sewer system of the village is hereby declared
to be a nuisance. Every water closet or privy connected and used in any
building not connected with the sewer system of the village is hereby declared
to be a nuisance; provided, that this section shall not apply to premises where
connection with the village sewer system is not feasible. Such connection with
the sewer system is hereby declared to be mandatory for any premises located
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of a village sewer, unless a
written waiver obtained from the village. Any private or individual septic
system installed prior to the effective date hereof shall be granted permission
not to make the mandatory connection to the sanitary sewer system of the
village. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
8-3-2: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
The sewer systems from any residence or commercial establishments constructed
after the effective date hereof shall be constructed and connected with the
public sewer in full compliance with these regulations and the plumbing code
adopted by the Illinois department of public health which is in effect at the
time the connection application is filed. Connections from residences or
commercial establishments which have existing sewer systems on the effective
date hereof shall be made, as nearly as possible, to fully comply with these
regulations. Where existing house sewer systems combine sanitary sewage with
roof drains or foundation drains or drain tile capable of collecting surface
water, a complete separation shall be made so that only sanitary sewage is
carried directly in watertight joints to the public sewer. Passage through a
septic tank will not be permitted. Existing watertight house services which
carry sanitary wastes only and are, in the opinion of the street
superintendent, well constructed, may be used even though full compliance with
the materials and jointing as described in this chapter is not met. Where any
doubt exists as to the type or quality of construction, the street
superintendent may require the owner to uncover the existing services for
inspection. Where any doubt exists on the complete separation of roof drains
and surface drains, the street superintendent may require the owner of the
establishment to prove by excavation and exposure that a complete separation
exists at the owner's expense. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
8-3-3: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   No unauthorized personnel shall uncover or make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining written approval.
   B.   Hereafter, no person, firm or corporation shall tap or cause to be
tapped or to be connected to, or suffer or cause to flow or to drain into the
public sewer system of the village the effluent of any source or sources of
sewage without first obtaining written approval therefor from the street
department superintendent.
   C.   When applying for the necessary approval from the village, the
applicant shall at the same time secure any and all other permits from other
regulatory agencies that may be required prior to the connection to the
sanitary sewer system of the village. At the same time, the applicant shall
make reference to the minimum design standards of the village as well as the
specifications contained in this chapter, the requirements of the Illinois
state plumbing code, and the standards of the Illinois environmental protection
agency for various methods and materials to be used in the installation and
construction of a sanitary sewer system. There must be compliance with all such
regulations or the approvals given and permits herein issued will be revoked.
(Ord. 635, 2-16-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
8-3-4: CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Fees Established:
      1.   For each new residential sewer service connection within the
corporate limits of the village, there shall be a nonrefundable tap-on or
connection fee of one thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00).
      2.   For each new multi-family residential service tap-on or connection
within the corporate limits of the village, the fee set out in subsection A1 of
this section shall apply, with the addition of seventy five dollars ($75.00)
for each additional residential unit therein. The term "residential unit", as
used herein means any unit designed for the occupancy of a single family,
whether self- contained or a part of a multiple-family structure.
      3.   For each commercial user, there shall be a tap-on or connection fee
of one thousand nine hundred dollars ($1,900.00), plus one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each additional connection.
      4.   For each industrial user, there shall be a tap-on or connection fee
of one thousand nine hundred dollars ($1,900.00), plus two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each additional connection.
      5.   For each significant industrial user, the Village shall negotiate
with the significant industrial users individually for fee amounts and the fees
associated with sewer discharge collection and treatment services shall be laid
out in the contract between the significant industrial user and the Village.
   B.   Determination Of Fee; Additional Costs: Tap-on or connection fees shall
be according to zoning classification of the property where the tap-on is being
installed. Village labor and material costs will apply in addition to the tap-
on or connection fee. (Ord. 850, 6-18-2007; amd. Ord. 1097, - -2023)
8-3-5: USE OF OLD CONNECTIONS:
Old sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are
found, on examination and test by the street superintendent, to meet all
requirements of the village. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
8-3-6: CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Authority And Supervision: The village street superintendent shall
prescribe the mode of piercing or tapping, the form, size and materials for all
connections to be made with sewer system, and supervise the work of making such
connections and restoring the street or alley to its original condition.
   B.   Materials: All piping and jointing materials used shall comply with the
plumbing code adopted by the Illinois department of public health which is in
effect at the time the connection application is filed. Any pipe material not
conforming to the requirements of these ASTM specifications will not be
permitted unless specific approval is obtained in advance from the village. No
materials or cement containing asbestos will be allowed. PVC or plastic pipe
shall be minimum schedule 40 or SDR 26, and SDR 35 pipe shall not be permitted.
   C.   Size, Slope, Depth And Location:
      1.   The size and slope of the connection sewers described herein shall
be subject to review and approval by the street superintendent, but in no event
shall the size be less than six inches (6"). The slope for such pipe shall not
be less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot.
      2.   Any pipe laid longitudinally in public streets, alleys, or easements
which could connect more than one service sewer or could be extended to connect
more than one service sewer shall be not less than eight inches (8") in
diameter, shall be laid on a grade of not less than four feet (4') per one
thousand feet (1,000'), and shall be constructed to a maximum depth to permit
further extension thereof.
      3.   Sewers installed longitudinally in a public street, alley, or
easement shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
prepared by a registered professional engineer approved by the Illinois
environmental protection agency.
      4.   Sewers installed longitudinally in a public street, alley, or
easement shall be constructed in accordance with the minimum design standards
of the village and the minimum plans and specifications provided by a
registered professional engineer licensed by the state of Illinois and shall
become the property of the village. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
      5.   All required permits from the Illinois environmental protection
agency and the Illinois department of public health, if required, shall be
available for inspection by the village prior to the initiation of construction
or installation. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
      6.   Whenever possible, the connection sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No connection sewer shall be
laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to provide protection from
frost. The connection sewer shall be laid in uniform grade and straight
alignment, insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings unless the break in line is made at a manhole
or cleanout. No ninety degree (90°) elbows or angles are allowed at any time.
In all buildings in which the building drain is too low to provide gravity flow
to the public sewer system, all sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by
approved mechanical means and discharged into the building sewer. The
mechanical means to be used must be approved by the street superintendent.
(Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
   D.   Joints: Joints on all house sewers shall be made permanently gastight
and waterproof and shall comply with the plumbing code adopted by the Illinois
department of public health which is in effect at the time the approval for
connection is filed. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   E.   Connection To Sewer:
      1.   The connection of the service or connection sewer shall be made at a
"Y" or "T" branch if one is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located "T" or "Y" is available, an approved opening may be cut into the public
sewer to receive the service or connection sewer. This method of cutting and
entrance must be approved by the village street superintendent, as well as the
approval of the type of connector used in connecting to the public sewer.
Unless otherwise granted, the following prescribed method shall be considered
the standard method used when connecting to the public sewer system: A "saddle"
shall be used to make such connections, the spigot end to extend not past the
inner surface of such sewer. The centerline of the service sewer at the point
of connection shall be at the same or a higher elevation as the centerline of
the public sewer. A smooth neat joint shall be made and the connection made
secure and watertight by encasement, if necessary, in concrete. In all cases
where a hole must be cut into the public sewer to receive the service sewer,
the proposed connection must be inspected by the street superintendent prior to
encasement in concrete. Other fittings may be used for the connection only when
approved by the street superintendent. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
      2.   The applicant requesting approval to tap the public sewer shall
notify the street superintendent when such sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. Connection shall be made under the supervision
of the street superintendent. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
      3.   After the effective date hereof, all sewers laid within the streets,
alleys or other public ways of the village for the purpose of connecting
sources of sewage with the sanitary sewer system of the village shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements and procedures described in
this subsection.
      4.   No existing or new drain tile or foundation tile which could or does
collect surface water shall be connected directly or indirectly to the sanitary
sewer system of the village. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
8-3-7: OBSTRUCTING SEWERS PROHIBITED:
No person, firm, company or corporation shall place, throw or deposit any
garbage, dead animal or obstruction of any kind whatsoever in any receiving
basin or sewer or cause any such obstruction or substances to be placed so as
to be carried into any receiving basin or sewer. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
8-3-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   All costs and expenses to the installation and connection of the sewer
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of such sewer. Any review or inspection costs incurred by the
village by the connection shall be paid by the applicant including that of any
consulting engineer that may be necessary.
   B.   The expense for cleaning, maintaining or repairing the house
connections of any private property owners to the village sewer system, or the
cleaning, repairing or maintaining of any private sewer, not heretofore or
hereafter accepted by the street superintendent, shall be borne by the property
owner or person having such work performed.
   C.   Any damages or conditions of service interruption that occur or develop
in the sewer system of the village following the cleaning, maintaining,
repairing or installing of a connection or private connection to the sewer
system of the village shall be repaired or corrected by the village, and such
cost of repair or correction shall be borne by the owner or the individual
responsible for the connection. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
8-3-9: INSPECTIONS:
The street superintendent or his designee shall have the right to inspect the
owner's premises including the interior of buildings to ascertain whether or
not violations are occurring and particularly whether or not prohibited
substances and effluents are being discharged into the sewer of the village in
violation of the regulations and rules of the village, the state of Illinois
and the United States Of America, and any violation of this section or any
other section of this chapter shall call for a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each and every day that such violation occurs. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993; amd.
2012 Code)
8-3-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the village with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
   B.   Revocation Of Permission: The village may revoke any permission granted
for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this
chapter.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding that provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 635, 2-16-1993; amd.
2012 Code)
   D.   Liability For Violation: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 635, 2-16-1993)
CHAPTER 4
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose And Scope
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
8-4-4: Dispute Resolution
8-4-5: Indemnification
8-4-6: Insurance
8-4-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards, and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (Act). Siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities outside the rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village for uses
other than exclusively commercial or industrial uses shall be governed by the
zoning and building ordinances applicable to property zoned for such other
uses.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 1028, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for: a) a
permit to collocate small wireless facilities, and/or b) installation of a new
utility pole for collocation of small wireless facilities, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance: 1) adopted by the Village
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
2) where certification of a preservation program proposed by the Village is
pending with the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include Village owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
1028, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
8-4-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Except as otherwise provided in subsection C9 of this
section (regarding height exceptions or variances), small wireless facilities
are hereby classified as permitted uses, subject only to administrative review,
and not subject to zoning review or approval, if they are collocated: 1) in
rights-of-way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property
zoned exclusively for commercial or industrial use, notwithstanding any
statement to the contrary in any other ordinance adopted by the Village.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
Village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the Village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, as
such Act may be amended from time to time (the "SEPA");
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility in that location;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the SEPA, for each proposed small wireless
facility covered by the application as it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge. For purposes of this section, the applicant's knowledge includes not
only the knowledge of the person signing the certification but, also, the
knowledge of all officers of the applicant and of each employee or agent of the
applicant involved with the proposed small wireless facility.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   Priority: The first completed application shall have priority
over applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Existing Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or
replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the
Village fails to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after
the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village, in writing, of
its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five
(75) days after the submission of a completed application; and prior to the
90th day after the submission of the completed application.
Unless otherwise approved or rejected by the Village within ninety (90) days
after the submission of the completed application, the permit shall be deemed
approved on the later of the 90th day after submission of the complete
application or the 10th day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by
the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
Village's denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this chapter.
         c.   New Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails
to approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after
the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application; and prior to the
120th day after the submission of the completed application.
Unless otherwise approved or rejected by the Village within one hundred twenty
(120) days after the submission of the completed application, the permit shall
be deemed approved on the later of the 120th day after submission of the
complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the deemed approved
notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not
preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the time limits as
provided under this chapter.
         d.   Denial: The Village may, on a non-discriminatory basis, deny an
application which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
If the Village determines that applicable codes, ordinances, or regulations
that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions
contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be
replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the applicant and/or the wireless provider.
The Village shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village and resubmit
the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The Village
shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the Village's review period. The application shall be
reviewed after completed applications that have been submitted before it.
The applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis (if denial is not
received within 30 days after submission of the revised application), which
notification may be submitted with the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial (so long as other provisions of the application have not been
changed). However, this limitation does not apply if the cure requires the
review of a new location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new
antennas, or other new or different wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility
pole, the Village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, in the form provided by the Village, for the initial collocation on
a Municipal utility pole by such approved application. For subsequent approved
permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole,
the Village and the applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the
Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the Village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information, and fees specifically
enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the Village.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
Village; or
         b.   A local, State, or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities, if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable Village
codes or any provision, condition, or requirement contained in this chapter.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable Village Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices to the Village by personal
delivery at the Village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked no later than the date due, or by any other commonly used means,
including electronic mail, by which the application is received by the Village
no later than the date due.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village reasonably
determines that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both (or all 3)
uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents, and/or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards, laws, and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph (or the then applicable
regulations). Failure to remedy the interference as required herein shall
constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Worker Safety Zone, Electric Supply Zone And Communications Space:
The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities on Village
utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission system
within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply
zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving such space and/or the top of
the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, as amended from time
to time.
      5.   Compliance: The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable
codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles,
and with reasonable stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements that are
set forth in any Village ordinance, written policy adopted by the Village, the
Village's comprehensive plan, and any other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including those applicable to historic
landmarks and/or historic districts.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or
category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as reasonably determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village, the applicant
shall provide written certification to the Village describing the property
rights, technical limits, or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions
set forth in this Code.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the Village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in all applicable codes and
ordinances concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the
right-of-way if the requirements include a waiver, zoning, or other process
that addresses wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not
prohibit granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
all local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void, unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The Village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights- of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles, so long as such installation, placement,
maintenance, operation, or replacement is in compliance with all applicable
Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes, without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, any public commuter rail service, or an electric
utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act, without the
consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or gas public
utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the facilities are being used,
developed, and maintained consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of
section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the Village and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
Village utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, if any, remain in
effect for all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before June 1, 2018,
subject to applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements
entered into after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a wireless provider that has an existing
agreement with the Village on the effective date of the Act may opt, instead,
to accept the rates, fees, and terms that the Village makes available under
this chapter for the collocation of small wireless facilities or the
installation of new utility poles for the collocation of small wireless
facilities by submitting a completed application for such small wireless
facilities no sooner than two (2) years after the effective date of the Act,
along with a notification to the Village that the wireless provider opts to
accept the rates, fees, and terms hereunder, rather than under its existing
agreement. The existing agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable
termination provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider
has collocated on the Village's utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the Village before the wireless provider provides such notice and
exercises its option under this paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a Village
utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year or 2) the actual, direct, and reasonable costs related to
the wireless provider's use of space on the Village utility pole.
If the Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter. If the Village
has billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs prior to such annual
anniversary, the fee shall be such actual and direct costs; and shall be paid:
1) no later than the annual anniversary date, or 2) within ten (10) business
days after the Village has provided such actual and direct costs to the
wireless provider, whichever is later.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery, and charge the
wireless provider for all costs incurred in such removal.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 1028, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
8-4-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Madison County, Illinois shall have exclusive jurisdiction
to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
Village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 1028, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
8-4-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
Village improvements or right- of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and/or the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
Village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the Village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on any theory of
liability. (Ord. 1028, 7-16-2018, eff. 7-16-2018)
8-4-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection
limits consistent with its requirements of other users of Village improvements
or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy prior to
the collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the Village. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self- insure shall provide to the Village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage limits required by the foregoing. (Ord. 1028, 7-16-2018,
eff. 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 5
CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Unlawful Camping Or Storage Of Personal Property In Public Places
8-5-4: Enforcement; Warnings; Removal And Confiscation Of Debris And Personal
      Property
8-5-5: Penalties
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent harm to the health and safety of the
public and to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
prohibiting unauthorized camping and storage of personal property on public
property within the Village, which interferes with the right of others to use
the areas for the purposes for which they were intended. (Ord. 1119, 3-19-2024)
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
BRIDGE: A structure, including the approaches thereto, erected in order to
afford passage over any obstruction in any public road, railroad, or other
right-of-way, or to afford passage under or over existing public roads,
railroads, or other rights-of-way.
CAMP OR CAMPING: To pitch, use, or occupy camp facilities, or to use camp
paraphernalia, or both, for the purpose of habitation. Camp or camping does not
include the use of public property or public facilities for recreational use or
for authorized public or private events that involve the use of tents, awnings,
or other structures in connection with such recreational use or authorized
public or private event.
PARK: Any publicly owned area controlled by the Village or other governmental
entity, including the Roxana Park District, for park purposes. Park also
includes all associated areas, including parking lots for parks.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Without limitation, any real property, building, structure,
equipment, sign, shelter, vegetation, greenspace, playground, bench, trail,
picnic shelters, recreational and athletic fields, and public open space,
including all associated areas such as parking lots, controlled or owned by the
Village of Roxana or any other governmental agency.
STORE OR STORING: To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, or to place or leave in a location, leaving one’s personal
property such as, without limitation, clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping
bags, luggage, shopping carts, knapsacks, or backpacks, unattended for more
than one hour.
STREET: Any highway, lane, road, street (including adjacent shoulders, medians,
and terrace areas), right-of-way, sidewalk, boulevard, alley, and every way or
place in the Village open as a matter of right to public pedestrian and
vehicular travel.
UNAUTHORIZED ENCAMPMENT: The collection of camp facilities, camp paraphernalia,
and/or personal property used for unauthorized camping in violation of this
ordinance.
Camp facilities include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
shelters, campers, recreational vehicles, or trailers. Camp facilities do not
include tents, huts, or temporary shelters, when used temporarily in a park for
recreation or play during daylight hours when the park is open to the public.
Camp paraphernalia includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
sleeping bags, hammocks, blankets, mattresses, or cooking facilities and
similar equipment. (Ord. 1119, 3-19-2024)
8-5-3: UNLAWFUL CAMPING OR STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp, or to engage in the
activity of unauthorized camping, or to store personal property, including camp
facilities or camp paraphernalia as defined in this Section of the ordinance,
within the following areas:
      1.   Any street; or
      2.   Any bridge; or
      3.   Any park; or
      4.   Any public property, improved or unimproved; or
      5.   Any public property where camping obstructs or interferes with the
intended public use of the property. (Ord. 1119, 3-19-2024)
8-5-4: ENFORCEMENT; WARNINGS; REMOVAL AND CONFISCATION OF DEBRIS AND PERSONAL
PROPERTY:
   A.   The Roxana Police Department, or their designee(s), will have primary
responsibility for the enforcement of the camping regulations herein. Nothing
in this chapter shall prevent the Roxana Police Chief, or his designee(s), from
obtaining voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice, education, or
coordination with other willing public or private entities and/or community
members.
      1.   Prior to issuing any citation pursuant to this Chapter, the
investigating officer shall provide a verbal and written warning to cease such
unlawful conduct and a verbal and written referral for possible alternatives to
their present camping practices, such as, (without limitation), transportation,
shelter, and/or contact information to public or private agencies who may be
able to provide services or support. Any public or private entities who wish to
assist the Roxana Police Department (“Department”) in effectively and humanely
transitioning individuals from unauthorized encampments on public property to
an environment consistent with Village ordinances should contact the Department
with a description of what services they can provide and effective contact
information. The Department will develop and maintain a policy to include
procedural guidance regarding the implementation of this ordinance. The
Department shall consult relevant professional resources and engage interested
community members, service providers, or other willing public or private
entities when designing and implementing this policy. The policy shall be
published and implemented no later than 6 months after the passage of this
ordinance. The policy shall provide for the collection of relevant data that
shall be used to review and revise the manual every three (3) years, or as
needed. Said revision shall be made in the same manner the policy is developed.
      2.   Officers shall exercise discretion to ensure that individuals are
not cited for violating this ordinance due only to a true personal necessity
that requires their present unauthorized camping practices. When possible, the
Department may work directly with community members, service providers or other
willing public or private entities to determine whether a true personal
necessity exists in a particular circumstance. The Department shall provide
specific support, guidance and contacts for officers. But it shall be construed
as direct evidence that no true personal necessity exists if the individual who
is camping refuses to take advantage of proffered alternatives to their present
camping practices (which could include, in the most extreme cases, short term
use of another location more easily monitored by the Department).
      3.   Upon a determination by law enforcement that an area constitutes an
unauthorized encampment, regardless of whether an individual is cited for a
violation of this ordinance, Village officials shall have the right to remove
any debris, contraband, or personal property that creates a legitimate health
and safety concern, or that creates an immediate and substantial danger to the
environment. No warning is required prior to such confiscation relating to
health and safety concerns.
      4.   Materials confiscated pursuant to this ordinance that are unsanitary
or a danger to the health and safety of any person may be immediately disposed
of. Otherwise, the Department shall provide 24-hour written notice prior to
confiscating property7. The Department shall retain personal property
confiscated pursuant to this ordinance in a manner consistent with the handling
of other confiscated property and must not dispose of such personal property
for a period of at least 30 calendar days, during which time the owner may
retrieve such property from the Department, pursuant to the procedure outlined
in the policy. Nothing prevents Department members from disposing of property
with the consent of the property owner. When Department members have received
consent to dispose of property, Village officials shall assist Department
members when necessary. (Ord. 1119, 3-19-2024)
8-5-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter as a first offense
may be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). All
fines under this ordinance may be satisfied by cash payment or community
service.
   B.   Any person who commits a subsequent violation of this chapter,
occurring within one year of a violation, may be punished by a fine of not more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). All fines under this ordinance may
be satisfied by cash payment or community service.
   C.   Each occurrence of a violation of this chapter or, in the case of a
continuous violation, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a
separate offense and shall be punishable separately. (Ord. 1119, 3-19-2024)
TITLE 9
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY PLAN
SECTION:
9-1-1: Plan Adopted
9-1-1: PLAN ADOPTED:
The comprehensive community plan, as set out in ordinance 473, is hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set out at length herein. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Minimum Design Standards Adopted
9-2-2: Key Lock Boxes
9-2-3: Numbering Buildings
9-2-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS ADOPTED:
The document attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A, entitled
"Minimum Design Standards Manual", is hereby adopted and made a part hereof by
reference. (Ord. 643, 7-6-1993)
9-2-2: KEY LOCK BOXES:
   A.   Required; Exemptions:
      1.   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box
within eight feet (8') of the main entrance or other such location required by
the fire chief. The lock box shall be affixed in a location of not less than
four feet (4') and not more than six feet (6') above final grade:
         a.   Any commercial or industrial structure or assembly area protected
by an automatic alarm system or automatic suppression system, or any such
structures which are secured in a manner which restricts access during an
emergency.
         b.   Any educational facility.
         c.   Any building or facility containing a quantity of hazardous
materials which would require compliance with title III of SARA (superfund
amendment reauthorization act).
      2.   This section shall not apply to residential structures unless
requested by the owner, in which case, the provisions of this section shall
apply.
   B.   Time For Installation: All newly constructed structures subject to this
section or at the discretion of the fire chief shall have the key lock box
installed and operational prior to occupancy. All structures in existence on
the effective date hereof shall have six (6) months to have a key lock box
installed and operational.
   C.   Fire Department Approved Padlock: Any structure meeting the
requirements of subsections A and B of this section surrounded by a locked
fence in an area barring access to the structure shall be required to utilize a
padlock in conjunction with the lock which is utilized by the property/business
owner, which is keyed to match the approved key lock box as defined by this
section. If there are multiple locked entrances through the fence, only one
shall be required to utilize the fire department approved lock.
   D.   Type Of Lock Box: The fire chief shall designate the type of key lock
box system to be implemented within the village and shall have the authority to
require all structures to use the designated system.
   E.   Keys Required In Box:
      1.   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box for the following:
         a.   The main entrance door.
         b.   Alarm room (if one exists).
         c.   Mechanical and/or sprinkler control rooms.
         d.   Fire alarm control panel.
         e.   Electrical room.
         f.   Special keys to reset pull station.
         g.   Elevator keys (if an elevator exists).
         h.   Any other room as specified by the fire chief.
      2.   These keys shall be labeled for easy identification in the field.
   F.   Rules And Regulations: The fire chief shall be authorized to implement
rules and regulations for the use of the lock box system.
   G.   Penalty: The penalty for violation of this section shall be as stated
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 857, 10-15-2007)
9-2-3: NUMBERING BUILDINGS:
It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of every house, building or
place of business in the village to have placed thereon, in a place clearly
visible from the street, in figures at least three and three-fourths inches
(33/4") high, numbers showing the street number of the house, building or place
of business. Violations of this section shall be subject to the general penalty
provisions provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 650, 10-4-1993)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING CODE; BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Building Code
9-3-2: Permit Required
9-3-3: Inspections
9-3-4: Violations
9-3-5: Interpretation
9-3-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Adoption of Code: The “2012 International Building Code,” as published
by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the minimum requirement
for construction within the Village, and is incorporated by reference herein.
   B.   Amendments to Code: The following information shall be incorporated
into the applicable provisions and sections of the 2012 International Building
Code:
      1.   Section 101.1 These regulations shall be known as the Building Code
of the Village of Roxana, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as ‘this code’.
      2.   Section 105.8 is hereby adopted in addition to the Building Code and
is hereby incorporated as if fully set forth as follows:
         [A]   105.8 Building Permit Fees. The fee schedule for building
permits shall be as follows:
            1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for construction with a value of not
more than fifty-thousand dollars ($50,000.00);
            2.   One-hundred dollars ($100.00) for construction with a value of
more than fifty-thousand dollars ($50,000.00) but not more than one-hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00); and
            3.   One-hundred dollars ($100.00) plus one-tenth (1/10) of one
percent (1%) of the value of the construction in excess of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00).
            4.   Notwithstanding the above, no building permit fee shall be
charged for the construction, remodeling, modifying or building of any
residential unit or accessory building which is located upon a presently
improved parcel of real estate located within the Village limits.
      3.   Section 114.4, Violations, is hereby amended and adopted in addition
to the Building Code and is hereby incorporated as if fully set forth therein
by adding the following:
         Any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or
directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate issued under
the provisions of this Code, shall be guilty of an ordinance violation,
punishable by a fine or not less than one-hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), but
not more than seven-hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
         It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this Code.
Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct
offense for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
         The building and zoning administrator shall not be required to file a
corrective order or stop order as a pre-requisite to court action.”
      4.   Section 113, Board of Appeals, is hereby replaced in its entirety as
follows:
         [A]   Any appeals referred to in the Building Code of the Village of
Roxana shall be referred to the presently existing Board of Zoning Appeals.
         [B]   The procedures of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be those
which are set forth in the Zoning Code of the Village of Roxana, except that:
(1) no notice need be published in a newspaper and (2) that hearings may be
held (7) days after notice is given to adjoining property owners.
      5.   Section 115.3, Unlawful continuance, is hereby amended and adopted
in addition to the Building Code and is hereby incorporated as if fully set
forth therein by adding the following:
         Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe conditions, shall be liable
to a fine of not less than one-hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), but not more
than seven-hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
         It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this Code.
Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct
offense for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
         The building and zoning administrator shall not be required to file a
corrective order or stop order as a pre-requisite to court action.
(Ord. 549, 5-15-1989; amd. Ord. 552, 6-19-1989; 2012 Code; Ord. 1046, 6-17-
2019)
9-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Prior to any person constructing, remodeling, modifying or building a residence
or other structure, such person shall first obtain a building permit. This
building permit shall be in addition to any other permits or licenses required
by law. (Ord. 549, 5-15-1989)
9-3-3: INSPECTIONS:
The building and zoning administrator is authorized to make inspections of the
residences and other structures to ensure compliance with the code adopted in
this chapter. (Ord. 549, 5-15-1989)
9-3-4: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Corrective Action:
      1.   Whenever the building and zoning administrator finds, by inspection
or otherwise, that any lot, structure, or use, or work thereon, is in violation
of this chapter, he shall so notify the responsible party, and shall order
appropriate corrective action. The order to take corrective action shall be in
writing and shall include:
         a.   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
         b.   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
         c.   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect
compliance;
         d.   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
         e.   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference
with the administrator if he so desires;
         f.   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must
be filed, and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
         g.   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
the imposition of fines.
      2.   A corrective action order shall be deemed properly served upon the
owner, occupant, or operator of the offending lot, structure, or use if it is:
         a.   Served upon him personally;
         b.   Sent by registered mail to his last known address; or
         c.   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
      3.   Whenever any work is being done in violation of an initial
certificate of zoning compliance, the administrator's corrective action order
may state that the violation must cease immediately. In such case, the
corrective action order is equivalent to a stop order.
   B.   Emergencies: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter,
whenever the administrator determines that any violation of this chapter poses
an imminent peril to life or property, he may institute, without notice or
hearing, any necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition.
   C.   Complaints: Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is
alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms
provided by the administrator. The administrator shall record such complaints,
immediately investigate, and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective
action. (Ord. 549, 5-15-1989)
9-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter shall be read together with chapter 6, "Occupancy Code", of this
title and title 10, "Zoning Regulations", of this code and the terms and
conditions of those provisions shall be used to interpret this chapter. (Ord.
549, 5-15-1989)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Plumbing Code
9-4-2: Work Standards
9-4-3: Inspections
9-4-1: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: The Illinois plumbing code, which appears at 77
Illinois administrative code, part 890, is adopted. This code has been adopted
by the Illinois department of public health pursuant to the authority granted
in the Illinois plumbing license act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/0.01
et seq. All installations and modifications of plumbing services shall conform
to this code. (Ord. 769, 8-21-2000)
   B.   Copies On File: The plumbing inspector shall keep on file in the
village clerk's office three (3) copies of the plumbing code adopted in
subsection A of this section, which shall be available for inspection. (1981
Code § 15.12.030; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Enforcing Officer: The plumbing inspector shall enforce the provisions
of the plumbing code adopted in subsection A of this section. (1981 Code §
15.12.020; amd. 2012 Code)
9-4-2: WORK STANDARDS:
All work done on any plumbing system shall be performed in an efficient and
workmanlike manner. (1981 Code § 15.12.050)
9-4-3: INSPECTIONS:
The plumbing inspector is authorized to make inspections of the plumbing of
residences and buildings prior to the time that service is instituted thereto
to ascertain its compliance with the requirements of the plumbing code adopted
in subsection
9-4-1A of this chapter, and upon his determination of such, he shall certify
whether the plumbing meets the requirements, and determine the same
accordingly. In the event that the plumbing does not meet the said
requirements, the inspector shall not certify the building or residence as
being ready for the furnishing of water service thereto. (Ord. 485, 6-17-1985;
amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Electrical Code Adopted
9-5-2: Additional Electrical Regulations
9-5-3: Inspections
9-5-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
The “2017 National Electrical Code,” as published by the American National
Standards Institute, a copy of which is on file with the Village Clerk, is
adopted as the minimum requirements for safety for the electrical circuitry and
wiring required in residences and buildings located in the Village. (Ord. 862,
3-17-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 1046, 6-17-2019)
9-5-2: ADDITIONAL ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   All wiring in the building must conform to the national electrical
safety code adopted in section
9-5-1 of this chapter as to size (see table). (Ord. 769, 8-21-2000; amd. 2012
Code)
   B.   No wiring less than no. 12 copper shall be used.
   C.   In high hazard areas, all wire shall be encased in galvanized steel
conduit.
   D.   Separate grounds are required on all switches and receptacles in
kitchens, baths, basements, and garages.
   E.   All single-family residential electrical services must be a minimum of
one hundred (100) amps.
   F.   Wiring must be bored through floor joists and ceiling joists in areas
of thirty inches (30") or more of vertical height.
   G.   All wiring in apartments, duplexes, and condominiums must be encased in
conduit. Flexible is not permitted.
   H.   For one hundred (100) amp, two hundred (200) amp, three hundred (300)
amp, and four hundred (400) amp services, the amperage rating of the meter
base, the wiring, and the breaker(s) must be equal.
   I.   All wires to the ground rod must be connected to the neutral in the
meter base(s). The wiring needed for ground is as follows: no. 6 for one
hundred (100) amp; no. 4 for two hundred (200) amp; no. 2 up to two hundred
fifty (250) amp; no. 0 up to four hundred (400) amp.
   J.   Supplemental information regarding agricultural, commercial, and
residential construction is as follows:
      1.   Minimum of one hundred (100) amp service required.
      2.   No. 3 THW copper minimum entrance cable for one hundred (100) amp
service.
      3.   3-0 THW copper minimum entrance cable for two hundred (200) amp
service.
      4.   Entrance cable and neutral must be of equal size and rating.
      5.   Neutral must be identified and continuous from weather head through
meter socket into panel box.
      6.   Ground wire (no. 6 for 100 amp, no. 4 for 200 amp) to ground rods
must be encased in conduit.
         a.   Copper ground rods are required and must be a minimum of eight
feet (8') long to a maximum of ten feet (10') long.
         b.   Rigid conduit is required on overhead services from the meter
base to the weather head. PVC conduit is allowed on underground services and
anything below the meter base.
         c.   All electrical upgrade services must be grounded by means of a
copper ground rod.
         d.   No water pipe grounds will be permitted.
      7.   All circuits must be a minimum of no. 12 copper, and grounds are
required in kitchens, baths, basements, and garages. Grounds are also required
on switches in these areas. No. 14 gauge wire is not permitted, not even for
switch legs.
      8.   Only two (2) boxes per circuit are allowed in kitchens.
Refrigerators must be on a separate circuit.
      9.   All drops in the basement must be encased in conduit.
      10.   All panel boxes must have a single main disconnect.
      11.   Panel boxes are not allowed in bedrooms, closets, bathrooms, or
hallways.
      12.   All kitchens, bathrooms, and outside receptacles shall have ground
fault interrupters (GFI) protection. Ground fault interrupters (GFI) are also
required in the garage and washroom.
      13.   Aluminum wire is not permitted from the weather head into the panel
box.
      14.   All commercial lines must be in rigid conduit. Flexible is not
permitted.
      15.   All wiring in apartments, duplexes, and condominiums must be
encased in conduit. Flexible is not permitted. In some cases, depending on the
type of construction and user classification of the building, the use of metal
clad cable, 12-2 with ground, may be permitted in lieu of rigid conduit.
Special approval must be granted by the building and zoning administrator prior
to using this material.
      16.   Consultation with the local power company for their regulations is
required.
      17.   Smoke detectors require one hundred ten (110) volt with battery
backup. (Ord. 769, 8-21-2000)
9-5-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The electrical inspector is authorized to make inspections of the
residences and buildings prior to the time that service is instituted to the
said residences and buildings.
   B.   The electrical inspector shall inspect the wiring and circuitry to
ascertain their compliance with the requirements of the electrical safety code
adopted in section
9-5-1 of this chapter, and upon his determination of such, he shall certify
whether it meets the requirements and determine the same accordingly. In the
event that the electrical circuitry does not meet the said requirements, he
shall not certify the building or residence as being ready for the furnishing
of electrical service thereto. (Ord. 862, 3-17-2008)
CHAPTER 6
OCCUPANCY CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Short Title
9-6-2: Intent And Purpose
9-6-3: Interpretation And Application
9-6-4: Rules And Definitions
9-6-5: Permit Requirements
9-6-6: Safe And Sanitary Maintenance
9-6-7: Basic Facilities
9-6-8: Egress Requirements
9-6-9: Certain Connections To Commercial Establishments Prohibited
9-6-10: Enforcement Officer
9-6-11: Inspections
9-6-12: Fees
9-6-13: Corrective Action Orders
9-6-14: Dwellings Unfit For Human Habitation
9-6-15: Emergency Measures
9-6-16: Complaints
9-6-17: Appeals
9-6-18: Violations; Penalties
9-6-19: Disclaimer Of Liability
9-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the OCCUPANCY CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF ROXANA,
ILLINOIS. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety
and general welfare of the people of the village. These general objectives
include, among others, the following specific purposes:
   A.   To protect the character and stability of residential areas within the
village.
   B.   To provide minimum standards for heating and sanitary equipment
necessary to the health and safety of occupants of buildings.
   C.   To provide facilities for light and ventilation, necessary to health
and safety.
   D.   To prevent additions or alterations to existing dwellings that would be
injurious to the life, health, safety or general welfare of the occupants of
such dwellings or neighboring properties.
   E.   To provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings to prohibit the spread of unsuitable residential housing.
   F.   To preserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to abolish or impair existing
remedies of the village or its officers or agencies relating to the removal or
demolition of any buildings which are deemed to be dangerous, unsafe, or
unsanitary.
   B.   Every building or its premises used in whole or in part as a home or
residence or as an accessory structure thereof, of a single family or person
and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of two (2)
or more persons or families living in separate apartments shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter, irrespective of the class to which such buildings
may otherwise belong and irrespective of when such buildings may have been
constructed, altered or repaired.
   C.   This chapter establishes minimum standards for dwelling units and
accessory buildings and does not    replace or modify standards otherwise
established for the construction, replacement or repair of buildings except
such as are in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. Any inconsistency
or conflict between the provisions of this chapter and any provisions of other
existing ordinances shall not repeal such provision or ordinance, but the
provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative thereto.
   D.   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor
of the village, and every requirement imposed herein shall be deemed minimal.
Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from the requirements of any
other lawfully adopted ordinance, regulation, deed restriction, or covenant,
the more stringent requirement shall prevail. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-
2003)
9-6-4: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section. Any word or phrase in
this chapter not defined in this section shall, if applicable, be given the
definition which appears in the zoning title of the village, as presently
enacted or hereafter amended. Whenever the words "dwelling", "dwelling unit",
"rooming house", "rooming unit", or "premises" are used in this chapter, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part
thereof".
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached structure subordinate to the main or principal
structure located on the same lot, the use of which is customary to the main
building.
ADMINISTRATOR: The village chief of police who is responsible for the
implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor level below the surface
of the ground immediately adjoining it.
BATHROOM: A room containing bathing and sanitary facilities provided within
each living unit consisting of a water closet, a tub or shower, and a lavatory.
A bathroom shall afford privacy to the person using it.
DETERIORATION: The condition or appearance of a building or part thereof,
characterized by breaks, holes, rot, crumbling, cracking, peeling, rusting, or
other evidence of physical decay or neglect, excessive use of, or lack of
maintenance.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a building designated for occupancy by one
family for living purposes and having its own permanently installed cooking and
sanitary facilities.
EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or
trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods,
approved by the village.
FAMILY: An individual or married couple and the children thereof and no more
than two (2) other persons related directly to the individual or married couple
by blood or marriage, or a group of not more than three (3) persons (excluding
servants) not related by blood or marriage, living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
HABITABLE BUILDING: Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as a home
or place of abode by one or more persons.
HABITABLE ROOM: Every room in any building in which persons sleep, eat, or
carry on their usual domestic or social vocations or avocations. The term shall
not include private laundries, bathrooms, toilet rooms, pantries, storerooms,
corridors, rooms for mechanical equipment for service to the building, or other
similar spaces not used by persons frequently or during extended periods.
KITCHEN: A space, either a separate room or a portion of a multipurpose room,
which contains a sink with counter working space, adequate space for installing
cooking and refrigeration equipment and for the storage of cooking utensils.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or altered for
occupancy by more than one family, each living independently of the other.
OCCUPANCY INSPECTOR: A person recommended by the administrator and appointed by
the village president to perform occupancy inspections.
OCCUPANT: Any person (including owner or operator) living and sleeping in a
dwelling unit or having actual possession of said dwelling or rooming unit.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS: The temperature fifteen degrees Fahrenheit
(15°F) above the lowest recorded temperature for the previous ten (10) year
period.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation who, alone, jointly, or severally with
others, shall be in actual possession of or have charge, care or control of,
any dwelling or dwelling unit within the village as owner, employee or agent of
the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the
titleholder, and such person shall be bound to comply with the provisions of
this chapter to the same extent as the owner.
PERSON: Shall include a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization and any other group acting as a unit as well as individuals. The
term shall also include an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other
representative appointed according to law. Whenever the word "person" is used
in any section of this chapter prescribing a penalty or fine, as to
partnerships or association, the word shall include the partners or members
thereof, and as to corporations, shall include the officers, agents or members
thereof who are responsible for any violations of such section.
PLUMBING: All of the following facilities and equipment: gas pipes, gas burning
equipment, water pipes, steam pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes,
toilets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths,
installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other
similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
PROVIDED: Any material furnished, supplied, paid for or under the control of
the owner.
PUBLIC HALL: A hall, corridor, or passageway for egress from a dwelling not
within the exclusive control of one family.
REPAIR: To restore to a sound and acceptable state of operation, serviceability
or appearance. Repairs shall be expected to last approximately as long as would
the replacement by new items.
REPLACE: To remove an existing item or portion of a system and to construct or
install a new item of similar or improved quality as the existing item when
new. Replacement will ordinarily take place when the item is incapable of
repair.
ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms from a single habitable unit used or
intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
SMOKE DETECTOR: Includes the terms "approved smoke detector" or "detectors" and
means a smoke detector of the ionization or photoelectric type which complies
with all of the requirements of the rules and regulations of the Illinois state
fire marshal.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent or
temporary location on the ground or is attached to something having a permanent
or temporary location on the ground. A sign or other advertising medium,
detached or projecting, and fences and freestanding walls shall be construed to
be structures.
SUBSTANDARD: All buildings used for purposes of human habitation that do not
conform to the minimum standards established by this chapter and by any other
ordinances.
SUPPLIED: Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the control of the owner
or operator.
TEMPORARY HOUSING: Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human shelter
which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the ground,
to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises for more
than thirty (30) consecutive days. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003; amd.
2012 Code)
9-6-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   Standard Occupancy Permit: Except as provided in subsection A2 of
this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or for any owner or
agent to allow another person to occupy a dwelling unit unless the
administrator has issued a valid occupancy permit. The administrator shall not
issue any occupancy permit until an occupancy inspector of the village has
inspected the dwelling and the proposed occupancy conforms to the requirements
of this chapter. Provided, that this subsection A1 shall not apply to any
occupancy which began on or before the effective date hereof. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner, or if delegated in writing, the authorized agent,
to truthfully and completely apply for inspection of the property. The renter
cannot act as the agent for the owner.
      2.   Temporary Occupancy Permit: A dwelling not in full compliance with
this chapter may be occupied while repairs are being made if the administrator
has issued a temporary occupancy permit. No temporary occupancy permit shall be
issued until the administrator has inspected the premises and determined that
the occupancy thereof does not constitute a serious hazard to the health or
safety of the occupants as indicated by the inspection checklist. A temporary
occupancy permit shall be valid for up to ninety (90) days and may be renewed
once upon written request. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
   B.   Applications For Permits: Every application for an occupancy permit or
a temporary occupancy permit shall be filed with the administrator on a
prescribed form. Every application for any occupancy permit shall include the
following information: (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003; amd. Ord. 873, 7-
21-2008, eff. 7-21-2008)
      1.   Name, date of birth, current address and phone number of each of the
proposed occupants; any special needs limitations may be requested.
      2.   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner, if different from
the occupant.
      3.   Address and general description of the premises to be occupied.
      4.   Number of persons who will occupy the dwelling unit in question.
   C.   Revocation Of Permits: The administrator, upon notice in writing, may
revoke any occupancy permit or temporary occupancy permit if:
      1.   The administrator determines that information contained in the
application for said permit is false;
      2.   The occupant refuses to allow the inspection of his premises;
      3.   The work authorized by a temporary occupancy permit is not
proceeding; or
      4.   The occupant fails to comply with a corrective action order.
   D.   Utilities Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any utility company to
begin providing gas, water, electric, or telephone service until a valid
occupancy or temporary occupancy permit is presented to said utility. (Ord.
812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-6: SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Minimum Standards Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to
occupy or to let or hold out to another for occupancy any dwelling unit for the
purposes of living therein which is not safe, clean, and fit for human
occupancy and the exterior appearance of which does not comply with the
particular requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Basements And Cellars: Every basement and every cellar shall be
maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. Water shall not be permitted to
accumulate or stand on the floor. All sewer connections shall be properly
trapped. All cellar and slab drains shall be covered with grading. Junk,
rubbish and waste shall not be permitted to accumulate to such an extent as to
create fire hazards or to endanger health or safety.
   C.   Facilities, Equipment And Chimneys: Every supplied facility, fixture,
system, piece of equipment or utility, and every chimney and chimney flue shall
be installed and maintained in a safe, sound and sanitary working condition,
consistent with the requirements of this chapter. Ninety percent (90%)
efficient furnaces vented into a masonry flue must have a stainless steel
liner.
   D.   Floors, Interior Walls And Ceilings: Every floor, interior wall, and
ceiling shall be adequately protected against the passage and harborage of
vermin and rodents and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every
floor shall be free of holes and cracks. Every floor shall be free of loose,
warped, protruding or rotting floorboards. Every interior wall and ceiling
shall be free of holes and large cracks and shall be maintained in a tight,
weatherproof condition. Every interior wall and ceiling shall be free of loose
plaster or other structural material. Plaster, paint and all other surface
materials shall be of such character as to be easily cleanable and shall be
reasonably smooth, clean and tight. Every toilet room and bathroom floor
surface shall be substantially impervious to water and be capable of being
maintained easily in a clean and sanitary condition.
   E.   Foundations, Exterior Walls And Roofs: The foundation, exterior walls
and exterior roof shall be substantially watertight and protected against
rodents and shall be kept in sound condition and repair. The foundation
elements shall support the building at all points. Every exterior wall shall be
free of deterioration holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards or timbers, and
any other condition which might admit rain or dampness to the interior portions
of the walls or to the exterior spaces of the dwelling. The roof shall be tight
and have no defects which admit rain, and roof drainage shall be adequate to
prevent rainwater from causing dampness in the walls. All cornices,
rustication, quoins, moldings, belt courses, lintels, sill oriel windows,
pediments and similar projections shall be kept in good repair and free from
cracks and defects which make them hazardous and dangerous.
   F.   Grading And Drainage Of Lots: Every yard, court, vent passageway,
driveway, and other portions of the lot on which the dwelling stands shall be
graded and drained so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water on any
such surface. Driveways shall be maintained in good repair and free of safety
hazards.
   G.   Vermin Infestation: Each dwelling and all exterior appurtenances on the
premises shall be adequately protected against rats, mice, termites, insect
pests and other vermin infestation. Building defects which permit the entrance
of rats, mice, termites, insect pests and other vermin shall be corrected
immediately by the owner. Tenants shall be responsible for the elimination of
rodents and vermin from that part of the premises under their exclusive control
except when more than one unit is infested at the same time, and in this
instance, the owner shall be responsible for the elimination of the
infestation.
   H.   Windows, Doors And Hatchways:
      1.   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway in a dwelling
shall be substantially tight and shall be kept in sound condition and repair.
Every window shall be fully supplied with windowpanes which are without cracks
or holes. Every window sash shall be in good condition and fit reasonably tight
within its frame. Every window, other than a fixed window by design and
manufactured not to open to the elements, shall be capable of being easily
opened and shall be held in position by window hardware. Every exterior floor,
door hinge, and door latch shall be in good condition. Every exterior door,
when closed, shall fit reasonably well within its frame. Every window, door and
frame shall be constructed and maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall
construction as completely to exclude rain and substantially to exclude wind
from entering the dwelling. Every basement hatchway shall be so constructed and
maintained as to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage
water into the building.
      2.   Every window, glazed exterior door, exterior transom, or exterior
sidelight shall be provided with properly installed glass or other approved
glazing material. In the event of breakage, the owner and/or occupant shall
cause the immediate removal of broken glass from the premises and shall
temporarily board up the affected openings with suitable material to provide
protection from the elements and to prevent entry of insects, birds or animals
and to provide security to occupants or contents of the building.
      3.   Since the presence of boarded up buildings, particularly those where
the boarding is unpainted, or applied in an insecure, careless, or
unpresentable fashion, invites vandalism and creates a blighting influence
which adversely affects the general welfare of the people of the village, it is
hereby required that all boarding up of exterior openings be accomplished in a
neat workmanlike manner with not less than one-half inch (1/2") thick weather
resistant plywood, or its equivalent, cut to fit within openings, fastened in
place as securely as possible, and suitably coated with an appropriate neutral
color blending with or harmonizing with the exterior colors of the building as
inconspicuously as possible. It shall be the duty of the administrator to
notify the owner or agent of any boarded up dwelling unit not complying with
the requirements of this subsection H3 of the necessity of compliance, giving
him a period of not more than ten (10) working days in which to replace the
broken glass, or repair, replace or paint the boarding. This notice shall be
given in the manner required by section
9-6-13 of this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or agent to fail
to comply with the order of the administrator contained in such notice.
   I.   Ventilation And Lighting: Adequate ventilation and natural lighting
shall be provided for all occupied dwelling units.
   J.   Stairways And Porches: Every stairway, inside or outside of the
dwelling, and every porch shall be kept in safe condition and sound repair.
Every flight of stairs and every porch floor shall be free of deterioration.
Every open stairwell and every flight of stairs which is more than four (4)
risers high shall have rails not less than two and one-half feet (21/2') high
and measured vertically from the nose of the tread to the top of the rail.
Every porch which is more than four (4) risers high shall have rails not less
than two and one-half feet (21/2') above the floor of the porch, and if the
porch is four (4) or more feet above grade, a banister at least two and one-
half feet (21/2') above the porch floor is required. Every rail and banister
shall be firmly fastened and maintained in good condition. No flight of stairs
shall have settled more than one inch (1") out of its intended position or have
pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures. No flight of stairs shall
have rotting, loose or deteriorating supports. The treads and risers of every
flight of stairs shall be uniform in width and height. Every stair tread shall
be strong enough to bear a concentrated load of at least four hundred (400)
pounds without danger of breaking. Every porch shall have a sound floor. No
porch shall have rotting, loose or deteriorating supports. (Ord. 812, 4-21-
2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-7: BASIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Electrical System:
      1.   Compliance With Electrical Code: In every dwelling unit, every
electrical outlet, switch, and fixture, whether required or not, shall be
installed, maintained, and connected to the source of electric power in
accordance with the provisions of the village's currently adopted electrical
code.
      2.   Minimum Service: Every dwelling unit shall have main electrical
service of at least one hundred (100) amperes.
      3.   Lighting: Every room shall contain at least one working ceiling
light fixture or switch operated outlet or be adequately illuminated by
lighting from an adjacent room for safe passage. In multiple-family dwellings,
every shared/public hall and stairway shall have a minimum of five (5) foot-
candles of electric illumination at all times.
      4.   Convenience Outlets: Every habitable room shall contain at least two
(2) separate and remote wall type electric convenience outlets. Every bathroom,
basement, attached garage or detached garage with electricity and laundry area
shall contain at least one working grounded type convenience outlet. (Ord. 812,
4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
      5.   Fuses: Section 240.52, "Edison-Based Fuse Holders", and section
240.53, "Type S Fuses", of the electrical code adopted in section
9-5-1 of this title, shall only apply for new construction within the village.
The home occupancy inspector shall consider the safety of the persons living in
the premises, and if, in the sound judgment of the inspector, the present fuse
or electrical system is adequate, then an occupancy permit may be issued. (Ord.
889, 7-20-2009; amd. 2012 Code)
      6.   Electrical Hazards:
         a.   In determining whether the electrical system of any dwelling unit
is hazardous to the occupants (and thus in violation of this chapter), the
administrator shall consider the size of the dwelling unit, the number of
occupants, and the occupants' usage of appliances and equipment. The electrical
system of a dwelling unit may be found hazardous due to any of the following
conditions:
            (1) Insufficient amperage;
            (2) Improper fusing, wiring, or installation;
            (3) Improper or inadequate grounding of the system or parts
thereof;
            (4) The presence of loose, hanging, frayed, or bare wires;
            (5) The use of extension cords except for short term purposes;
            (6) Insufficient outlets or fixtures;
            (7) The presence of conductor supported pendant switches or light;
            (8) The presence of flush or semiflush mounted floor convenience
outlets, lacking approved waterproof covers; or
            (9) General deterioration of the system or parts thereof.
         b.   In addition to the requirements of subsection A6a of this
section, the administrator shall not issue an occupancy permit unless the
dwelling unit complies with the village's current electrical code.
   B.   Heating:
      1.   Every dwelling unit shall be served by acceptable, properly
installed heating facilities in good working condition.
      2.   Every landlord or manager of any apartment building or other
multiple-family dwelling who leases or rents any dwelling unit(s) on terms,
either expressed or implied, is required to furnish heat to the tenants or
occupants thereof.
   C.   Water Heating Facilities: Every dwelling unit shall be served by water
heating facilities that are properly installed and connected to the building's
hot water lines and maintained at all times in safe operating condition.
   D.   Plumbing: In every dwelling unit, every sewer line, water line,
plumbing fixture, vent, and drain shall be properly installed, and maintained
free from obstructions, leaks, or defects so as to prevent structural
deterioration or health hazards. All repairs and installations shall be made in
conformity with the building codes and plumbing codes adopted by the village.
   E.   Fire Regulations: Pursuant to 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 2905/1 et
seq., the office of the state fire marshal has adopted certain rules and
regulations which appear at title 41, part 100 et seq., of the Illinois
register. The village hereby adopts by reference the terms and conditions of
such rules and regulations to the extent that such adoption is otherwise
required by law. No occupancy permit shall be issued pursuant to this chapter
except in conformance with such rules and regulations. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003,
eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-8: EGRESS REQUIREMENTS:
Every dwelling unit shall have at least one unobstructed means of egress that
leads to a public street or alley either directly or through a court or yard.
Every dwelling unit located on the third or higher story shall have at least
two (2) such exits. Passage to a dwelling unit's exit(s) shall not lead through
any other dwelling unit or through a space that might reasonably be locked by
anyone who is not a member of the household. Provided, that dual egress shall
not be required in structures that are of fireproof construction as defined in
the village building code. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-9: CERTAIN CONNECTIONS TO COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
No habitable room and no bathroom that is accessory to a dwelling unit shall
open directly into or be used in conjunction with any commercial establishment
or professional office. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-10: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The administrator or designee is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the provisions of this chapter. This broad responsibility
encompasses, but is not limited to, the following specific duties:
   A.   To inspect dwellings, accessory structures, and residential premises in
accordance with section
9-6-11 of this chapter.
   B.   To take appropriate action to correct violations of this chapter.
   C.   To review and pass upon applications for occupancy permits and
temporary occupancy permits.
   D.   To maintain up to date records of all matters pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   E.   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the village board at least once each year.
   F.   To provide information to the general public on matters related to this
chapter.
   G.   To attend the applicable meetings of the board of trustees, or any
committee thereof, and any court hearings concerning this chapter, and to
cooperate with the corporate authorities, including the village attorney.
   H.   To prepare an application form and inspection checklist and attach it
to this chapter and to provide a copy of the inspection checklist to the
applicant prior to the initial inspection.
   I.   To perform such other duties as the corporate authorities may from time
to time prescribe. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-11: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to properly filed complaints, the administrator or designee
may inspect dwellings, accessory structures, and residential premises as often
as reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Whenever the administrator considers it reasonably necessary or
desirable to have such inspections made by another department of the village,
he shall arrange for this to be done in such a manner that the owner or
occupants are not subjected to numerous inspections or to multiple or
conflicting correction orders.
   C.   The owner or occupant shall give the administrator free access to the
premises at any reasonable time upon display of proper identification in order
to allow him to perform his/her duties under this chapter. (Ord. 812, 4-21-
2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-12: FEES:
The fee for the initial application and initial inspection shall be one hundred
twenty five dollars ($125.00). If the reinspection is not completed within
ninety (90) days from the date of the first inspection, a fee of one hundred
twenty five dollars ($125.00) will be charged for reinspection. If the
reinspection indicates the dwelling is not compliant with the required changes
indicated on the initial inspection, a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be
charged for the second reinspection. (Ord. 950, 7-15-2013; amd. Ord. 1121, 6-3-
2024)
9-6-13: CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS:
   A.   Whenever the administrator determines, by inspection or otherwise, that
any occupancy or any dwelling, dwelling unit, accessory structure, or other
portion of residential premises is in violation of this chapter, he shall so
notify the owner and/or occupant in writing and order appropriate corrective
action. The order to take corrective action shall include the following
information:
      1.   A description of the premises sufficient for identification.
      2.   A statement indicating the nature of the violation.
      3.   A statement of the remedial action (repairs, reduced number of
occupants, etc.) necessary to effect compliance.
      4.   The date by which the violation must be corrected.
      5.   As prescribed in section
9-6-17 of this chapter.
      6.   A statement that if the violation is not corrected or if the order
is not appealed within five (5) days, the occupancy permit may be revoked, a
fine may be imposed, and/or the property may be declared unfit for human
habitation with attendant consequences.
   B.   The corrective action order shall be deemed properly served upon the
owner, agent, or occupant if it is:
      1.   Served upon him/her personally;
      2.   Sent by registered mail to his last known address; or
      3.   If subsection B1 or B2 of this section is impossible or refused,
posted in a conspicuous place on or about the dwelling or premises.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling who has been served
a corrective action order to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease, or otherwise
dispose of the dwelling or its ownership interest until he has either:
      1.   Effected compliance with the provisions of this chapter; or
      2.   Furnished the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee a true copy
of the corrective action order, and has given the administrator a signed and
notarized statement from said grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee that
acknowledges receipt of such corrective action order and unconditionally
accepts responsibility for making the required repairs.
   D.   The occupant(s) of every dwelling unit shall give the owner or
operator, or his agent or employee, free access thereto at any reasonable time
in order to allow him to make any inspection, alteration, maintenance, or
repair necessary to effect compliance with this chapter.
   E.   It is unlawful for any person to occupy or let or hold out to another
for occupancy any dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein where such
dwelling unit does not comply with the steps required by the corrective action
order. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-14: DWELLINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION:
   A.   In addition to action authorized elsewhere in this chapter, the
administrator shall declare unfit for human habitation any dwelling that is so
damaged, dilapidated, vermin infested, or deficient with respect to
illumination, ventilation, or basic facilities (including sanitary, electrical,
plumbing, heating, etc.) that it creates a serious hazard to the health or
safety of the occupants or the public.
   B.   The administrator shall post a placard on every dwelling declared unfit
for human habitation. The placard shall include:
      1.   The name of the village;
      2.   A statement that said placard has been posted by the administrator
under authority of this chapter;
      3.   The date of posting;
      4.   An order that the dwelling must remain vacated and off limits to all
unauthorized persons until compliance with this chapter is achieved and such
order to vacate is withdrawn; and (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
      5.   A statement that defacement or removal of the placard is a violation
of this chapter punishable by a fine not to exceed that provided in section
9-6-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Any dwelling declared unfit for human habitation and so placarded shall
be vacated within eight (8) hours as ordered by the administrator. Occupancy of
such dwelling shall not be resumed until the administrator has approved, in
writing, and removed the placard. The administrator shall remove the placard as
soon as the defects that prompted the declaration of unfitness have been
eliminated. No other person shall deface or remove said placard.
   D.   The owner of every dwelling declared unfit for human habitation shall
board up and otherwise make said dwelling safe and secure so that it does not
constitute a fire hazard or public nuisance. (See subsection
9-6-6H2 of this chapter.) (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-15: EMERGENCY MEASURES:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, whenever the administrator
determines that any dwelling, accessory structure, or other part of residential
premises poses an immediate peril to the occupants or the public, the
administrator shall file the necessary court paperwork to alleviate the
perilous condition. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-16: COMPLAINTS:
Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the administrator.
The administrator shall record such complaints, promptly investigate, and (if
necessary) institute appropriate corrective action, punitive action or
combination thereof. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-17: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person affected by a decision of the occupancy inspector shall have
the right to appeal the decision of the occupancy inspector to the occupancy
administrator; provided, that a written application for appeal is filed with
the village clerk within twenty (20) business days after the day the decision,
notice or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim
that the true intent of this chapter or ordinances legally adopted has been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this chapter or ordinances do not
apply, or the requirements are adequately satisfied by other means.
   B.   Within five (5) business days of the filing of the appeal, the
occupancy administrator shall hold an informal hearing with the person to
review the decision of the occupancy inspector. Unless otherwise agreed, the
administrator shall issue a written decision within two (2) business days of
the informal hearing. In the event the person is not satisfied with the
decision of the administrator regarding the appeal, the person may then appeal
to the senior co-chair of the public safety committee of the village board of
trustees. Such appeal shall be filed in writing with the village clerk within
five (5) business days after the day of the written decision of the
administrator.
   C.   Within five (5) business days of the filing of an appeal of the
decision of the administrator, the committee senior co- chair shall hold a
hearing to consider the appeal. The co- chair shall render a decision within
five (5) business days of the hearing. This decision shall be final as of the
date issued and may be appealed by the person to the courts in accordance with
law.
   D.   In order to expedite such hearings, if the public safety committee
senior co-chair is unable to hold the hearing, the junior co-chair, and if
neither co-chair is available, the senior most member of the public safety
committee may conduct a hearing and render a decision. In the event a decision
on appeal is not issued by the administrator or co-chair in a timely manner as
stated herein, such appeal shall be deemed to be denied at that point, and the
person may proceed accordingly. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
9-6-18: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   It is unlawful to violate any provision of this chapter. A violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be an ordinance violation. The occupant
shall be considered separate and independent from the owner (unless they are
one and the same), and each, upon conviction, shall be subject to the penalties
indicated in this section. Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed to be a
separate and distinct offense for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
(Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
   B.   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), plus costs. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003; amd. 2012
Code)
   C.   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the village from taking
any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with this
chapter. Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the village from
recovering any other relief, including costs, damages, attorney fees or
injunctive relief, to which the village may otherwise be entitled to receive
pursuant to law.
   D.   Nothing contained in this chapter, as presently enacted or hereafter
amended, shall require the administrator or any other person to issue a
corrective order or take any other steps as a prerequisite to filing an
ordinance violation or seeking any other relief. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-
1-2003)
9-6-19: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent, or employee of the village shall render
themselves personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of their
duties under this chapter.
   B.   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent, or employee
of the village as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
their duties under this chapter shall be defended by the Illinois municipal
league risk management attorney until the final determination of the legal
proceedings. (Ord. 812, 4-21-2003, eff. 6-1-2003)
CHAPTER 7
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definition
9-7-2: Dangerous Buildings Prohibited
9-7-3: Inspections; Notice To Abate
9-7-4: Abatement By Village; Lien
9-7-5: Penalty
9-7-1: DEFINITION:
Any building which, because of its condition, has fallen into a state of
disrepair, or is vacant or uninhabited, or because of faulty construction, age
or any other cause, is especially liable to fire or the hazards of fire or the
spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of the building or
of the residents of the village, or because of its condition, constitutes an
attractive nuisance, is hereby defined to be a "dangerous building". (Ord. 901,
8-2-2010)
9-7-2: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition. (Ord. 901, 8-2-2010)
9-7-3: INSPECTIONS; NOTICE TO ABATE:
The village shall make investigations to determine whether or not a structure
is a dangerous or unsafe, uncompleted or abandoned building and shall report
thereon to the president of the board of trustees who, by action at a regular
board meeting, shall cause written notice of the deficiencies to be served upon
the owner, either by United States mail or personal service. Such notice shall
specify the date and time of the inspection, the deficiencies of the structure
and the advice to the owner that the condition must be removed within a period
of thirty (30) days of the date of the notice. (Ord. 901, 8-2-2010)
9-7-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; LIEN:
Upon failure of the owner to repair, demolish or remove the dangerous or unsafe
condition within the said time limit, the village may proceed under the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1, and the subparagraphs
thereof, to obtain either the repair or destruction thereof or to proceed to
the county circuit court for the appropriate injunctive relief, together with
the appropriate lien relief as called for therein. (Ord. 901, 8-2-2010)
9-7-5: PENALTY:
In the event that the owner does not repair or remove the dangerous building or
condition pursuant to the notice advising said owner of such condition, the
owner shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per day for each day the
violation is not corrected or continues. (Ord. 901, 8-2-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 8
BILLBOARDS AND SIGNS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Interpretation
9-8-2: Definitions
9-8-3: Permit And Registration Requirements
9-8-4: General Requirements And Restrictions
9-8-5: Location; Frontage Consents
9-8-6: Prohibited Signs
9-8-7: Specific Sign Regulations And Restrictions
9-8-8: Nuisance Billboards
9-8-9: Service Of Notices
9-8-10: Compliance With State Regulations
9-8-11: Penalties
9-8-1: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter shall be consistent with the highway advertising control act, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 440/1 et seq., and the regulations adopted to
interpret that act; see 92 Illinois administrative code, part 522. The terms
and definitions of the act, the accompanying regulations and the Illinois motor
vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., shall guide the
interpretation of this chapter. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
9-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACT: The highway advertising control act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 440/
1 et seq.
BILLBOARD: Any signboard or similar structure, the sole or primary purpose of
which is to be used for the display of advertisements or notices. Each single
display side of a multisided signboard shall be considered as a separate
billboard. For the purpose of this chapter, a sign is included within this
definition. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
9-8-3: PERMIT AND REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exceptions And Conditions:
      1.   It is unlawful to construct or maintain a billboard within the
village without having first secured a permit therefor from the village.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection A1 of this section, no permit is required
for the construction or maintenance of a billboard or signboard, other than a
roof sign, the total display area of which does not exceed thirty six (36)
square feet. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
      3.   No permit issued hereunder shall be construed to authorize the
construction or maintenance of a billboard which extends over any public
street, or any part of which extends over or above any public street, alley, or
sidewalk or other public place. Such billboards are unlawful. (Ord. 791, 12-3-
2001; amd. 2012 Code)
      4.   Each billboard, including those that do not require a permit, shall
conform to any zoning or subdivision statutes, rules or regulations that may
apply to the location of that billboard.
      5.   Signs or billboards that are constructed or maintained in violation
of this subsection are unlawful. In addition, the village may seek any lawful
remedy to have the sign corrected or removed, including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for permits shall be made in
writing to the village clerk. Each application shall state thereon the name of
the owner of the premises, the name of the person or corporation constructing
the billboard, and specifications showing the size, location, material and
manner of construction of the billboard. A construction permit expires six (6)
months after it is issued. Permittees shall provide to the village, within one
hundred eighty (180) days of completion, evidence that the sign has been
constructed according to the application and permit. The evidence may include
as built plans or affidavits, but preferably by photographs of the erection of
the signs.
   C.   Permit Fees:
      1.   Required: A permit fee shall be paid for each billboard or sign that
is subject to this chapter.
         a.   A construction permit fee, as follows, shall be paid. This shall
include the maintenance fee until the next May 1:
            (1)   For signs of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet:
Fifty dollars ($50.00).
            (2)   For signs of at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet but
less than three hundred (300) square feet: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
            (3)   For signs of three hundred (300) or more square feet: Two
hundred dollars ($200.00).
         b.   An annual maintenance fee, as follows, shall be paid on or before
May 1 of each year for the following year or any part thereof:
            (1)   For signs of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet:
Ten dollars ($10.00).
            (2)   For signs of at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet but
less than three hundred (300) square feet: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
            (3)   For signs of three hundred (300) or more square feet: Four
hundred dollars ($400.00).
         c.   In addition to any other remedy, the following amounts shall be
paid for each sign for each month, or part thereof, that the annual maintenance
fee is not timely paid:
            (1)   For signs of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet:
Ten dollars ($10.00).
            (2)   For signs of at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet but
less than three hundred (300) square feet: Twenty dollars ($20.00).
            (3)   For signs of three hundred (300) or more square feet: Forty
dollars ($40.00).
      2.   Exemptions: Permit fees shall not be required for the following:
         a.   Signs less than thirty six (36) square feet that are not located
on roofs or attached to buildings.
         b.   Units of federal, state or local government.
   D.   Renewal Of Permit:
      1.   Signs must be erected within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
date the permit is issued. The permittee shall apply for a renewal permit in
the event the sign is not erected within this period. The permit application
requirements in this section shall apply to the renewal of permits.
      2.   Upon a change in permittee or sign ownership, the new permittee or
owner of the sign shall notify the village of the sign permit or registration
number and the old and new permittee or sign owner names within sixty (60) days
after the change in permittee or sign ownership. No application fee is required
under these circumstances. Any permit or registration not so renewed shall
become revocable in accordance with the provisions of subsections E, F, G, H,
and I of this section.
   E.   Registration And Abatement Of Existing Signs: All signs erected prior
to December 31, 2001, shall be registered with the village on or before May 1,
2001. The annual registration fee for these signs will begin May 1, 2002. Any
sign erected prior to December 3, 2001, that does not conform to this chapter
shall either be removed or made to conform to this chapter on or before
December 31, 2003.
   F.   Notice Of Intent To Revoke Permit Or Registration: Whenever the village
determines that grounds exist for the revocation of a permit or registration
(including, but not limited to, false information in the application, errors in
permit processing, failure to erect what was permitted or any other violation
of the act or this chapter), the village shall notify the permittee by
certified mail of its intent to revoke the permit. This notice shall be called
the "notice of intent to revoke permit" ("notice") and shall inform the
permittee that he has thirty (30) calendar days from receipt of the notice to
reply. The procedures in this subsection shall not apply when a permit has
expired without any sign being erected within one hundred eighty (180) days of
issuance.
   G.   Reply Of Permittee:
      1.   The reply shall be made to the village in writing and received at
the village offices within the thirty (30) day period. No time extensions will
be permitted. The reply shall specifically state one of the following:
         a.   That the sign has been removed. In such case, evidence of the
removal (an affidavit or photograph) shall be submitted with the reply.
         b.   That the problem cited in the notice of intent to revoke has been
corrected or that measures to correct the problem will be undertaken in the
manner and within the times set forth in the reply. Evidence of the correction
(an affidavit or photograph) shall be submitted with the reply.
      2.   If the permittee fails to reply or to reply within the thirty (30)
day period, the notice shall constitute the "30 day letter" as provided in
subsection I of this section and shall have the same force and effect as same.
      3.   If the evidence submitted with the reply shows that the sign has
been removed, then the village will notify the permittee that the permit is
revoked.
      4.   If the evidence shows that the permittee has corrected the problem,
the village will so notify the permittee, and the notice shall be considered
null and void.
      5.   If the village finds that the evidence submitted with the reply
fails to show that the sign has been removed or that no measures have been
taken or proposed to correct the problem, and no review is requested, the
village will issue a "30 day letter" in accordance with subsection I of this
section.
   H.   Review Procedures:
      1.   Proceedings:
         a.   Notice Of Review: In response to the timely receipt of the reply
requesting a review, the director of public works shall notify the village
clerk within ten (10) days that a review request has been received. A copy of
the notification shall also be sent to the permittee and the village president
and board of trustees. The director of public works or the village president
may designate another person to perform the duties in this subsection.
         b.   Arguments:
            (1)   The director of public works and the permittee shall submit
to the village president and board of trustees or designee written arguments,
in duplicate, supporting their positions within thirty (30) days of the review
request being received by the village president and board of trustees.
            (2)   Written arguments must contain proposed findings of fact and
conclusions of law.
            (3)   The village clerk or designee will provide the director of
public works and the permittee with a copy of the opposing party's written
arguments.
            (4)   Written rebuttal arguments will be considered only if
received in duplicate by the village clerk or designee within fifteen (15) days
after the date each party receives the opposing party's written arguments. The
village clerk or designee will also provide a copy of these rebuttal arguments
to each party.
            (5)   These arguments shall be submitted by the village clerk to
the village president and board of trustees and to the permittee.
            (6)   The village president and board of trustees or designee may
hold a conference if it is necessary to adjudicate conflicting facts or to
simplify relevant issues. Conferences may be held in person or by telephone.
         c.   Decision:
            (1)   Within thirty (30) days after receipt of arguments and
exhibits and a conference, if one is held, the village president and board of
trustees or designee shall render the decision and promptly notify the director
of public works and the permittee in writing by certified mail of the decision.
The decision will be based on the written arguments, the fact finding
conference, and relevant exhibits.
            (2)   If the permittee fails to submit written arguments or does
not submit them within the thirty (30) day period, the resultant decision will
be that the allegation or allegations as set forth in the notice of intent to
revoke the permit are true, correct, and proven.
            (3)   If the director of public works fails to submit written
arguments or does not submit them within the thirty (30) day period, the
resultant decision will be that the allegation or allegations set forth in the
notice of intent to revoke the permit are unproven.
      2.   Village Legal Action Following Review:
         a.   If a sign has been found to be unlawful, the village shall issue
a "30 day letter" as provided in subsection I of this section.
         b.   If a sign has been found to be in compliance with this chapter,
the permit will be considered lawful.
         c.   If the village president or designee finds that insufficient
information has been provided, he/she shall direct the parties to supply the
needed information so that a decision can be rendered.
   I.   Issuance Of Thirty Day Letter:
      1.   When the village has found a sign to be unlawful as provided in
section 10 of the act or this chapter, the village shall notify the permittee
or sign owner by certified mail of the following:
         a.   The sign must be removed or brought into compliance within thirty
(30) days from receipt of notice.
         b.   After the thirty (30) day period, the sign shall become the
property of the village if not removed or brought into compliance.
         c.   The village shall sell, by public sale, auction, or sealed bids;
remove; or paint over all unlawful signs which have not been removed or brought
into compliance within the thirty (30) day period, or shall seek a court order
to force abatement by the sign owner.
         d.   The sign owner shall reimburse the village for all costs incurred
by the village in selling, removing or painting over the sign.
      2.   The village shall take the action described in the notice. (Ord.
791, 12-3-2001)
9-8-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Wind Pressure: Every billboard shall be firmly and solidly constructed
so as to be able to bear a wind pressure of at least thirty (30) pounds per
square foot of area; provided, that billboards that are placed upon roofs must
be so constructed as to be able to withstand a lateral wind pressure of forty
(40) pounds per square inch.
   B.   Height Aboveground: Every billboard must be so constructed as to leave
an open space of at least two and one-half feet (21/2') between the bottom of
the display area and the ground. This open area may be filled with latticework
or other ornamental design that does not close off more than two-thirds (2/3)
of any square foot of such open area. Billboards constructed on property on
which there is a properly established building line must be built entirely in
back of the building line, and no permit shall be issued for the construction
of any billboard on any lot which is subject to a proper building line
restriction if the billboard is to be constructed in violation of the building
line restriction.
   C.   Fireproof Construction And Grounds: It is unlawful to construct any
billboard over fifteen (15) square feet in area anywhere in the corporate
limits of the village unless the face of such billboard complies with
applicable fire and safety codes adopted by the village. The grass or foliage
under and surrounding all billboards must be kept at a height of not more than
ten inches (10") for a distance of ten feet (10') from the billboard, and shall
be kept free of all paper and other debris.
   D.   Billboards Near Buildings: It is unlawful to construct any billboard, a
majority of the display area of which is within four feet (4') of any building,
unless such billboard is constructed of noncombustible material.
   E.   Illuminated Billboards: The wiring of illuminated billboards and
signboards must comply with the provisions of the ordinances relating to
electrical wiring.
   F.   Obstruction Of Fire Escapes Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to erect
or maintain any billboards in such a position as to obstruct any fire escape or
any window or door leading thereto, and no billboard shall be fastened to any
fire escape. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
9-8-5: LOCATION; FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    BLOCK: Means and includes that portion of the street between the two (2)
intersections with other public streets nearest the specified location on each
side; provided, that if, on either or both sides of such location, there is no
intersection within three hundred feet (300') of the center of the specified
location, the block shall be considered as terminating at a point three hundred
feet (300') from such center.
   STREET: Means and includes such highways as have been dedicated by either
common law or statutory dedication as public streets and are actually in use as
such. The term "street" shall not be construed to include or mean merely
service highways which are commonly known as alleys.
   B.   Frontage Consents:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall locate, build, construct,
operate or maintain any billboard in any block in the village where a majority
of the houses abutting on both sides of the street in the block are used
exclusively for residence purposes without having first secured the written
consent of the owners of a majority of the frontage abutting on such street on
both sides within such block.
      2.   Frontage consents, once secured and filed, shall not be withdrawn
and need not be renewed except on the construction of a new billboard to
replace the one for which the consents were granted. But where consents are
required and have been obtained for the construction of one or more billboards
on any particular lot, additional consents for any additional billboard on the
same lot must be secured and filed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   C.   Location Restrictions: Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, no
sign or billboard shall be located within a residential zoning district. Any
sign within two hundred feet (200') of a residential district shall require a
special use permit, subject to the procedures in the zoning ordinance. This
special use permit shall be in addition to any other requirement. (Ord. 791,
12-3-2001)
9-8-6: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "code" refers to
the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq.
   B.   Prohibited Signs: The following signs shall not be erected or
maintained:
      1.   Signs located within the right of way of an interstate or primary
highway or on any structure, wire, cable, or other device over or above an
interstate or primary highway right of way except the following:
         a.   Signs designating the name of the railroad that owns the bridge.
         b.   Signs designating the clearance provided by the bridge.
         c.   Public utility signs.
         d.   Signs required by the code.
         e.   Signs, displays and devices giving specific information in the
interest of the traveling public erected and maintained by the village or by
the Illinois state toll highway authority.
      2.   Signs which attempt or appear to attempt to direct the movement of
traffic or which contain wording, color or shape which is similar to official
traffic control signs or other traffic control devices.
      3.   Signs which contain oscillating, rotating, flashing, intermittent or
moving lights or parts, except the following:
         a.   Signs giving public service information including, but not
limited to, time, weather, date and temperature (section 6.02(a) of the act)
and signs with displays that change not more frequently than once every sixty
(60) minutes.
         b.   Pole supported business or brand identification signs inside
business areas with constant illumination and color and in which the only
movement is a slow rotation of the entire body of the sign so as to be visible
from all directions.
         c.   On premises signs which comply with subsection B7 of this
section.
      4.   Signs that are erected, painted or drawn upon trees, rocks or other
natural features (section 5 of the act).
      5.   Signs that are obsolete (i.e., advertises something that is no
longer there) or structurally unsafe or in disrepair (section 5 of the act),
unless such structural conditions may be repaired in accordance with the
provisions of the act, and the sign owner agrees in writing to make the repairs
within thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice to remove.
      6.   Signs which project beams or rays of light at the traveled way of a
state highway or cause such beams or rays to create glare or to impair the
vision of a driver of any motor vehicle (section 6.02(b) of the act).
      7.   Signs that are located within one thousand feet (1,000') of official
traffic signs, signals, or devices and obscure or interfere with a driver's
view of such sign, signal or device (section 6.03(a) of the act).
      8.   Signs that are located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
approaching, merging or intersecting traffic and obscure or interfere with a
driver's view of such traffic (section 6.03(a) of the act).
      9.   Signs that require a permit for erection or registration under this
chapter and for which no permit or registration has been issued.
      10.   Signs that contain any pornographic materials or scenes.
      11.   Signs that violate airport hazard zoning regulations adopted by the
village pursuant to the airport zoning act 1
. (See section 522, illustration J of 92 Ill. adm. code, part 522.)
12. Signs erected adjacent to a scenic byway that is a primary or interstate
highway after August 2, 1996, except those signs described in sections 4.01,
4.02, 4.03, 4.06 and 4.08 of the act (section 5(d) of the act). (Ord. 791, 12-
3-2001; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 620 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
9-8-7: SPECIFIC SIGN REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Roof Signs:
      1.   It is unlawful to construct any billboard on the roof of any
building or structure of any but incombustible materials.
      2.   All such roof signs or billboards must be so constructed that there
is at least four feet (4') of space between the billboard or signboard and the
edge of the roof at all sides and ends.
      3.   It is unlawful to construct any roof sign or billboard on the roof
of any building that is unable to withstand the additional weight and wind
pressure imposed by such construction.
      4.   All roof signs and billboards shall be supported and anchored in a
safe and secure manner consistent with the nature, size and construction of the
building and the sign or billboard.
      5.   The metal supports and parts of every roof sign shall be thoroughly
and properly painted at least once each five (5) years unless they are
galvanized or otherwise adequately protected against rust and corrosion.
   B.   Official Notices: In addition to the standards set forth in section
9-8-6 of this chapter, the following standards apply to official notices:
      1.   Service club and religious notices shall not exceed thirty six (36)
square feet in area. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
      2.   Public service signs may be located only on school bus stop shelters
that are authorized by and are located at places approved by village, county or
state law, regulation or ordinance. Only safety slogans or messages may be
displayed on the sign, and such slogans or messages shall occupy not more than
fifty percent (50%) of the sign area. The remaining fifty percent (50%) may
contain only the identity of the donor, sponsor or contributor of the shelter.
Such signs may not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area. Not more than
one sign on each shelter shall face in any one direction. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001;
amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Directional Signs: In addition to the standards set forth in section
9-8-6 of this chapter, the following standards shall apply to permanent
directional signs:
      1.   To be eligible for determination, privately owned attractions of
activities must be nationally or regionally known and of outstanding interest
to the traveling public. The village will make a determination of eligibility
for each attraction or activity based on the information provided in the
submission, including any licenses held. In making this determination, the
village will avail itself of the experience and knowledge of selected groups in
the specific type of attraction or activity being considered. These groups
shall include, but not be limited to, commissions, boards, other agencies and/
or other state municipalities. The intent of the village is to limit signs to
the promotion of economic, commerce, educational, cultural, historic and
tourism activities and sites.
      2.   No such sign may be located within two thousand feet (2,000') of an
interchange, or intersection at grade along an interstate highway or expressway
(measured from the nearest point of the beginning or ending of pavement
widening at the exit from or entrance to the main traveled way).
      3.   No such sign may be located within two thousand feet (2,000') of a
rest area, park land or scenic area.
      4.   No two (2) such signs facing the same direction of travel shall be
spaced less than one mile apart.
      5.   Not more than three (3) such signs pertaining to the same activity
and facing the same direction of travel may be erected along a single route
approaching the activity.
      6.   Such signs located along interstate highways shall be within ten
(10) air miles of the activity.
      7.   Such signs located along primary highways shall be within ten (10)
miles of the activity.
      8.   The message on such signs shall be limited to the identification of
the attraction or activity and directional information useful to the traveler
in locating the attraction, such as mileage, route numbers, or exit numbers.
Descriptive words or phrases and pictorial or photographic representations of
the activity or its environs are prohibited.
      9.   No such sign shall exceed the following limits. All dimensions
include border and trim, but exclude supports.
         a. Maximum area: One hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         b. Maximum height: Twenty feet (20').
         c. Maximum length: Twenty feet (20').
   D.   On Premises Signs: In addition to the standards set forth in section
9-8-6 of this chapter, the following standards shall apply to on premises signs
located along interstate highways outside business areas:
      1.   There may not be more than one such sign located more than fifty
feet (50') from the advertised activity designed to attract traffic proceeding
in any one direction (section 4.03(a) of the act).
      2.   No such sign located more than fifty feet (50') from the advertised
activity which displays any trade name referring to or identifying any service
rendered or product sold, used or otherwise handled may be permitted unless the
name of the advertised activity is displayed as conspicuously as such trade
name. This restriction does not apply if the trade name identifies or
characterizes places for lodging, eating, telephone facilities, or vehicle
service and repair, or identifies vehicle equipment parts, accessories, fuels,
oils or lubricants being offered for sale at such places (section 4.03(b) of
the act).
      3.   No such sign which is located more than fifty feet (50') from the
activities conducted upon the property where the sign is located may exceed
twenty feet (20') in length, width or height or one hundred fifty (150) square
feet in area, including border and trim, but excluding supports (sections 4.03
(b) and (c) of the act).
      4.   No such sign shall be erected or maintained by a lessee on property
that is not being leased for the lessee's advertised activity.
      5.   Such signs may be erected and maintained by persons who operate the
business which is advertised on property contiguous with the property where the
advertised activity is located as long as the parcels of land where the sign
and business are located are owned by the same entity or person.
      6.   No such sign will be considered part of or contiguous with the
premises on which the advertised activity is conducted if its location,
configuration, use or purpose indicates an attempt to circumvent the intent of
the act. Some examples of attempts to circumvent the intent of the act include,
but are not limited to, erecting signs on easements or narrow strips of land.
      7.   No such sign may be erected or maintained which contains, includes,
or is illuminated by any flashing, intermittent or moving light or lights
except those which may be changed at reasonable intervals by electronic process
or by remote control as long as these do not interfere with the effectiveness
of an official traffic control device (section 4.03(e) of the act). (Ord. 791,
12-3-2001)
9-8-8: NUISANCE BILLBOARDS:
Any billboard or signboard which is dangerous because of insecure construction
or fastening with resultant danger of falling, or because of noncompliance with
this chapter, or because it is an extreme fire hazard and in fact a nuisance,
is declared to be a nuisance and may be abated as such. The construction,
installation, maintenance, failure to maintain or failure to remove any sign
that does not conform to this chapter is unlawful. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
9-8-9: SERVICE OF NOTICES:
Notices described in this chapter may be served in the following manner:
   A.   Any method permitted for the service of a summons or other legal
process; or
   B.   When notice by certified mail is described and the addressee fails or
refuses to pick up the certified mail, notice shall then be sent by regular
mail, postage prepaid; the date of receipt of such notice by mail shall be
presumed as five (5) business days from the initial date of mailing by
certified mail. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
9-8-10: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS:
The state of Illinois has adopted certain statutes, rules and regulations for
the control of outdoor advertising adjacent to primary and interstate highways.
These include the highway advertising control act, 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 440/1 et seq., as amended, and part 522 of title 92 of the Illinois
administrative code, as amended. Any sign whose construction, installation,
maintenance, failure to maintain or failure to remove is in violation of these
statutes, rules or regulations are also in violation of this chapter and are
unlawful. Such signs are also declared to be a nuisance. The person or persons
liable for such violations shall be subject to fines, abatement of nuisance and
such other remedies authorized by this chapter or as otherwise authorized by
law. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
9-8-11: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter are as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 791, 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 9
FLOOD CONTROL
SECTION:
9-9-1: Statute Authority; Purpose
9-9-2: Definitions
9-9-3: Duties Of Floodplain Administrator
9-9-4: Base Flood Elevation
9-9-5: Development Permit
9-9-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Damages
9-9-7: Protecting Buildings
9-9-8: Other Development Requirements
9-9-9: Variances
9-9-10: Issuance Of Notices
9-9-11: Disclaimer Of Liability
9-9-12: Violation; Penalties
9-9-13: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
9-9-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, and 5/
11-31-2 in order to accomplish the following purposes: (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992;
amd. Ord. 763, 6-19-2000)
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas; and
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
9-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
9-9-4 of this chapter.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, and a prefabricated building. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days.
DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Any manmade change to real estate, including:
      1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building valued at more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
      2.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days;
      3.   Installing utilities, construction of roads, or similar projects;
      4.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges or
culverts;
      5.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
      6.   Storage of materials; or
      7.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   B.   "Development" does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as reroofing; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and
similar agricultural practices that do not involve filling, grading, or
construction of levees.
FPE OR FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: The elevation of the base flood at any given
location in the SFHA.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the SFHA required to store and convey the base flood.
The floodway of the SFHAs of the village shall be delineated on the flood
boundary and floodway map prepared by the federal emergency management agency
dated May 1, 1979, and maps prepared by the federal emergency management agency
for the village and the unincorporated area of Madison County dated April 15,
1982. The floodway for each remaining SFHAs of the village of Roxana shall be
according to the best data available to the Illinois state water survey
floodplain information repository.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, or any other identified channel. This term does not include
areas subject to flooding from lakes (except public bodies of water), ponding
areas, areas of sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
SFHAs OR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS: Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
village of Roxana that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The SFHAs
of the village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) of the village prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated May 1, 1979. The SFHAs of the village which are not listed on the FIRM
because of annexation after the maps were prepared can be identified by using
FIRMs which are listed as unincorporated parts of Madison County. These maps
were prepared for Madison County by the federal emergency management agency and
dated April 15, 1982. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992; amd. Ord. 763, 6-19-2000)
9-9-3: DUTIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The floodplain administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration and enforcement of this chapter including, but not limited to,
the following:
   A.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
   C.   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the Illinois
department of natural resources, office of water resources, for all development
projects subject to section
9-9-6 of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization.
   D.   Maintain a record of the as built elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all buildings subject to section
9-9-7 of this chapter.
   E.   Maintain a record of the engineer's certificate and the as built
floodproofed elevation of all buildings subject to subsection
9-9-7B1c of this chapter.
   F.   Inspect all development projects to ensure they comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
chapter.
   H.   Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance program.
   I.   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request base flood
data, SFHA maps, copies of federal or state permit documents and as built
elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed subject to this
chapter. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
9-9-4: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party may finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
existing data with better data and submit it to the state water survey.
   A.   The base flood elevation for SFHAs of the village shall be defined in
the flood insurance study of the village dated November 1978.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each SFHA delineated as an "AH zone" or
"AO zone" shall be the elevation (or depth) delineated on the flood insurance
rate maps of the village, or the unincorporated sections of the county that are
now incorporated into the village.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining SFHAs delineated as
an "A zone" on the flood insurance rate map of the village shall be according
to the best data available to the Illinois state water survey floodplain
information repository. When no base flood elevation exists, the base flood
elevation shall be the 100-year flood depth calculated according to the
formulas presented in "Depth And Frequency Of Floods In Illinois", published by
the U.S. geological survey, 1976.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated
Madison County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village
or that may be annexed into the village shall be as delineated on the 100-year
flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the county prepared by the
federal emergency management agency and dated October 15, 1981. (Ord. 630, 8-
17-1992)
9-9-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: No person, firm, corporation, or
governmental body not exempted by state law shall commence any development in
the SFHA without first obtaining a development permit from the floodplain
administrator. The floodplain administrator shall not issue a development
permit if the proposed development does not meet the requirements of this
chapter. The term development permit shall include construction permits and
building permits.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   The application for a development permit shall be accompanied by
drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions;
existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or
filling; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
9-9-7 of this chapter.
      2.   The application shall also contain information or certification as
reasonably may be required by the floodplain administrator in order to
determine eligibility for permits or to enforce the terms of this chapter.
   C.   Review Of Application; Records Kept: Upon receipt of an application for
a development permit, the floodplain administrator shall compare the elevation
of the site to the base flood elevation. Any development located on land that
can be shown to have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the date
of the site's first flood insurance rate map identification is not located in
the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the requirements of this chapter. The
floodplain administrator shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
   D.   Additional Required Permits: The floodplain administrator shall inform
the applicant of any and all other local, state, and federal permits that may
be required for this type of development activity. The floodplain administrator
shall not issue the development permit unless all required state and federal
permits have been obtained. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
9-9-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND DAMAGES:
No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or potentially damaging
increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and safety.
   A.   Within the floodway identified on the flood boundary floodway map, the
following standards shall apply:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2 of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing or future similar
works, will cause any increase in the base flood elevation. The specific
development activities identified in subsection B2 of this section shall be
considered as meeting this requirement.
      2.   No increase in the base flood elevation may be permitted unless:
         a.   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the base flood elevation more than one foot (1.0') for the affected hydraulic
reach of the stream and will not increase flood damages or potential flood
damages; and (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
         b.   A permit has been issued by the Illinois department of natural
resources, office of water resource as required in subsection B1 of this
section. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Within all other riverine SFHAs, the following standards shall apply:
      1.   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a development
permit for a site located in a floodway (or in a riverine SFHA where no
floodway has been identified) shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is not required from
the Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources, issued
pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992;
amd. Ord. 763, 6-19-2000; 2012 Code)
      2.   The following activities may be constructed without the individual
permit required in subsection B1 of this section in accordance with statewide
permits issued by the Illinois department of natural resources, office of water
resources, provided the activities do not involve placement of fill, change of
grade, or construction in the normal channel. Such activities must still meet
the other requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
         a.   The construction of wells, septic tanks, and underground utility
lines not crossing a lake or stream;
         b.   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures;
         c.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
         d.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports;
         e.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size nor ten feet (10') in any dimension (e.g.,
animal shelters and toolsheds); and
         f.   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do not extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to
the flow of floodwaters.
      3.   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the base flood elevation more than one foot (1.0') for the affected hydraulic
reach of the stream and will not increase flood damages or potential flood
damages.
   C.   The following public health standards apply in all SFHAs:
      1.   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless such materials are
stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building constructed according to the
requirements of subsection
9-9-7B1c of this chapter.
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on site waste disposal
systems may be permitted, provided all manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the FPE are watertight. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
9-9-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: In addition to the damage prevention
requirements of section
9-9-6 of this chapter, all buildings to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPE. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
      2.   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%) or the market value of the
building by more than fifty percent (50%);
      3.   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are valued
at or more than fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the building before
the damage occurred;
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning a
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or a manufactured home type structure
which is being used for storage or an office on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days.
   B.   Methods Of Protection: The building protection requirements may be met
by one of the following methods. The floodplain administrator shall maintain a
record of compliance with these building protection standards as required in
section
9-9-3 of this chapter.
      1.   Residential And Nonresidential Buildings:
         a.   A residential or nonresidential building may be constructed on
permanent landfill in accordance with the following:
            (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
(1') deep before compaction.
            (2)   The lowest floor, including the basement, shall be elevated
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. The fill shall extend ten feet
(10') beyond the foundation of the building before sloping below the FPE.
However, no use shall be constructed which will adversely affect the capacity
of channels or floodways of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch or
any other drainage facility or system.
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical (3:
1).
            (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties.
         b.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
            (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl
space, walls, stilts, piles, or other foundation, provided:
               (A)   The walls have permanent openings no more than one foot
(1') above grade; and shall consist of a minimum of two (2) openings equal in
size to one square inch, per one square foot of floor space that is subject to
flooding; and
               (B)   The walls and floor are not subject to damage by
hydrostatic pressures associated with the base flood.
            (2)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice, and floating
debris.
            (3)   All areas below the FPE shall be constructed of materials
resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including basement) and all
electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
utility meters shall be located at or above the FPE. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed
service facilities may be located below the FPE.
            (4)   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging increase
in flood heights or velocity.
         c.   Only a nonresidential building may be floodproofed in accordance
with the following:
            (1)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below the FPE, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
            (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      2.   Manufactured Homes And Travel Trailers: Manufactured homes, travel
trailers and similar structures which are used for offices or storage space
which will be installed on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days
shall be:
         a.   Elevated at or above the FPE in accordance with subsection B1a or
B1b of this section; and (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
         b.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
mobile home tie-down act issued pursuant to 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/
1 et seq. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992; amd. Ord. 763, 6-19-2000)
9-9-8: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The board of trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to the
extent that they are known, in all official actions related to land management,
use and development. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
   B.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the requirements of sections
9-9-6 and
9-9-7 of this chapter. Plats or plans for new subdivisions, manufactured home
parks, and planned unit development (PUDs) shall include a signed statement by
a registered professional engineer that the plat or plan accounts for changes
in the drainage of surface waters in accordance with the plat act 1
. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992; amd. Ord. 763, 6-19-2000)
   C.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, planned unit
developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home parks and subdivisions
shall include base flood elevation data. Where the base flood elevation is not
available from an existing study filed with the Illinois state water survey,
the applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation and
submitting it to the state water survey for review and approval as best
available elevation data. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
9-9-9: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship
on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board
of appeals for a variance. Except as set forth herein, the procedures to be
followed shall be the same as those requesting a change of zoning. In addition
to the recommendation of the building and zoning administrator, the floodplain
administrator shall review the application for variance and issue his or her
written recommendation to the zoning board of appeals. The zoning board of
appeals shall review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit
its recommendation to the board of trustees. The board of trustees may attach
such conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further
the intent of this chapter.
   B.   Standards For Variance Request: No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities; and
      6.   The provisions of subsection
9-9-5C of this chapter are met.
   C.   Variances From Specific Provisions:
      1.   The floodplain administrator shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of section
9-9-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
         a.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts that may be as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred
dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
         b.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         c.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
      2.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
9-9-7 of this chapter requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair
or alteration of a site or building included on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places may be granted
using criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsections B1 through
B5 of this section. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
9-9-10: ISSUANCE OF NOTICES:
Notices may be given by village officials other than the floodplain
administrator. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
9-9-11: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside of the SFHA
will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on
the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
9-9-12: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation: Failure to obtain a permit for development in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Determination And Notice Of Violation: Upon due investigation, the
floodplain administrator may determine that a violation of the minimum
standards of this chapter exists. The floodplain administrator shall notify the
owner in writing of such violation.
   C.   Injunction And Penalty: If such owner fails, after ten (10) days'
notice, to correct the violation:
      1.   The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance herewith. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   D.   Insurance Suspension: The floodplain administrator shall inform the
owner that any violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages
and, therefore, may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
   E.   Other Remedies: Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking
such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs and
fees connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
9-9-13: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the village board
of trustees to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program
including ordinances 421 and 433. However, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program;
nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 630, 8-17-1992)
CHAPTER 10
STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION; SOIL EROSION
AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
SECTION:
9-10-1: Statute Authority
9-10-2: Purpose And Objectives
9-10-3: Definitions
9-10-4: Application Of Provisions
9-10-5: Exemptions
9-10-6: Village Permit Requirements
9-10-7: Other Permits Required
9-10-8: NPDES Compliance
9-10-9: Liability For Damages
9-10-10: Stormwater Drainage And Detention
9-10-10-1: Drainage Plan Submittal Requirements
9-10-10-2: Minimization Of Increases In Runoff Volumes And Rates
9-10-10-3: Water Quality And Multiple Uses
9-10-10-4: Design Criteria, Standards And Methods
9-10-10-5: Accommodating Flows From Upstream Tributary Areas
9-10-10-6: Early Completion Of Detention Facilities
9-10-11: Soil Erosion And Sediment Control
9-10-11-1: Findings
9-10-11-2: General Principles
9-10-11-3: Erosion And Sediment Control Plan Submittal Requirements
9-10-11-4: Design And Operation Standards And Requirements
9-10-11-5: Maintenance Of Control Measures
9-10-11-6: Control Of Construction Site Wastes
9-10-11-7: Construction Site Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
9-10-12: Long Term Maintenance Responsibility
9-10-13: Inspections
9-10-14: Enforcement And Penalties
9-10-15: Information Available To Public
9-10-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-10. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010; amd. 2012
Code)
9-10-2: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to diminish threats to public health and
safety, protect property, prevent damage to the environment and promote public
welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any new development or redevelopment or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of earth,
and/or changes the stormwater drainage pattern and/or stormwater flows from
that which would have occurred if the land had been left in its natural state.
This stormwater runoff and resulting soil erosion could result in the
inundation of damageable properties, the erosion and destabilization of
downstream channels, and the pollution of valuable stream and lake resources.
This chapter regulates these activities to minimize adverse impacts.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is also to comply with the general national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit no. ILR40 regulations and
the notice of intent (NOI) submitted to the IEPA in 2003.
   C.   This chapter is adopted to accomplish the following objectives:
      1.   To assure that new development or redevelopment does not increase
drainage or flood hazards or create unstable conditions susceptible to soil
erosion.
      2.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage due to increased stormwater runoff and soil erosion.
      3.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of increased
flooding and soil erosion on a watershed basis.
      4.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, correction of channel
erosion problems, and flood rescue and relief operations caused by stormwater
runoff and soil erosion quantities from new development or redevelopment.
      5.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land
and soil, water, air, animal, and plant resources.
      6.   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and floodplains and to protect water quality and aquatic habitats.
      7.   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in order
to manage flood and stormwater impacts, improve water and groundwater quality,
reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, maintain quality
forest resources, provide recreation opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits,
and enhance community and economic development. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms are defined as set forth in
this section:
ADVERSE IMPACTS: Any negative impact on plant, soil, air or water resources
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality, and quantity.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, or governmental agency who executes the necessary
forms to produce official approval of a development or permit to carry out
construction of a new development or redevelopment from the village of Roxana,
Illinois.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation at all locations delineating the level of
flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event, which has a one
percent (1%) chance of occurring in any given year.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the village of Roxana, Illinois, for the
construction, erection or alteration of a structure or building and the related
ground and surface preparation prior to and after completion of construction,
erection or alteration of a structure or building.
BYPASS FLOWS: Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property's drainage system but not under its control.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests were performed, and that such inspections and tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
CHANNEL: Any defined river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, on stream lake or impoundment, sinkhole (karst area),
flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash or natural or
manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or into
which surface water or groundwater flows, either perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), filling, widening, deepening,
straightening, relocating, lining, and significant removal of bottom or woody
rooted vegetation. Channel modification does not include the manmade clearing
of debris or removal of trash.
CLEARING: Any activity which removes the natural vegetative ground cover.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structure is placed within the floodplain.
CONDUIT: Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
CUBIC YARD: A one yard by one yard by one yard amount of material in excavation
and/or fill.
DETENTION BASIN: A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release by gravity of
this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
DETENTION TIME: The amount of time stormwater is held within a detention basin.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate property, including:
   A.   The division or subdivision of any duly recorded parcel of property.
   B.   Construction of roads, bridges, or similar projects.
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
   D.   Construction of roads, bridges, or similar projects.
   E.   Redevelopment of a site.
   F.   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving or other
nonagricultural alterations of a ground surface.
   G.   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   H.   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
direction, or velocity of stormwater flows from a property.
DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage system and
environmental features, including grading, as well as proposed alterations or
changes to the drainage system and environment of a property.
DRY BASIN: A detention basin designed to drain after temporary storage of
stormwater flows and to normally be dry over much of its bottom area.
EROSION: The general process whereby soil or earth is moved by rainfall,
flowing water, wind or wave action.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material, is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
from such actions.
EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF: The volume and rate of flow of stormwater discharged
from a new development or redevelopment which is or will be in excess of that
volume and rate which existed before development or redevelopment.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any cut which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground surface after grading work is
completed in accordance with the engineering plans.
FLOOD FRINGE: That area as designated by the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA) on either side of the floodway. This area is subject to
inundation from the base flood but conveys little or no flow.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): A very generalized map prepared by the
federal emergency management agency (FEMA) which shows only where floodplains
are located based on very basic data. FHBMs do not include base flood
elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): A map prepared by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) that depicts the special flood hazard area (SFHA)
within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones and regulatory
floodplains and may or may not depict regulatory floodways.
FLOODPLAIN: That land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood elevation
which is subject to inundation. The floodplain as designated by the federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). These areas can be found on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM),
flood boundary and floodway maps, or the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) of
the community. This area is the collective combination of the regulatory
floodway and the flood fringe.
FLOODWAY: The channel and that portion of the floodplain, including on stream
lakes, adjacent to a stream or watercourse which is needed to store and convey
the anticipated existing and future 100-year frequency flood discharge with no
more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to any loss of flood conveyance or
storage and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase in velocities. Floodways
are designated by FEMA on some flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary and
floodway maps. However, there are floodways on all streams, whether mapped by
FEMA or not.
GRADING: The excavation or fill, or any combination thereof, and shall include
the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph showing, for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
HYDROGRAPH METHOD: Estimates runoff volume and runoff hydrographs for the point
of interest by generating hydrographs for individual subareas, combining them,
and routing them through stream lengths and reservoir structures. Factors such
as rainfall amount and distribution, runoff curve number, time of
concentration, and travel time are included.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: That area of property that is covered by materials other
than soil and vegetation and that has no intended capacity to absorb water,
such as parking lots, driveways, sidewalks, patios, tennis courts, roofs and
other structures.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
LOESSAL SOIL: A sediment, commonly nonstratified and unconsolidated, composed
predominately of silt sized particles with accessory clay and sand.
LOT: An individual platted parcel in an approved subdivision.
MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels, and swales and, where manmade, is to be designed to handle the
2-year runoff event.
MITIGATION: When the prescribed controls are not sufficient and additional
measures are required to offset the development, including those measures
necessary to minimize the negative effects which stormwater drainage and
development activities might have on the public health, safety and welfare.
Examples of mitigation include, but are not limited to, compensatory storage,
soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
MODIFIED RATIONAL METHOD: As described in the Illinois department of natural
resources "Drainage Manual", is based on the principal that the maximum rate of
runoff from a given drainage area occurs at that point in time when all parts
of the watershed are contributing to the flow. The rainfall generating the peak
flow is assumed to be of uniform intensity for the entire watershed with a
rainfall duration equal to the time of concentration.
NATURAL: Conditions resulting from physical, chemical, and biological processes
without intervention by man.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
100-YEAR EVENT: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one percent (1%)
chance of occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed
unless otherwise noted.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PEAK FLOW: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel or
conduit.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a building permit is issued.
PERSON: Any individual, firm or corporation, public or private, the state of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions, the United States Of
America and its agencies or political subdivisions, and any agent, servant,
officer or employee of any of the foregoing.
POSITIVE DRAINAGE: Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property
including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
PRIME FARMLAND: Land that is best suited to food, feed, forage and oilseed
crops. It may be cropland, pasture, woodland, or other land, but it is not
urban and built up land or water areas. It is either used for food or is
available for that use. The soil qualities, growing season and moisture supply
are those needed for a well managed soil to economically produce a sustained
high yield of crops. Prime farmland produces the highest yields with minimum
inputs of energy and economic resources, and farming it results in the least
damage to the environment.
PROPERTY: A parcel of real estate.
RETENTION BASIN: A facility designed to completely retain a specified amount of
stormwater runoff without release except by means of evaporation, infiltration,
emergency bypass or pumping.
SEDIMENTATION: The process that deposits soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater drainage
systems.
SINKHOLE (KARST AREA): A land surface depression or blind valley which may or
may not have surface openings to cavernous underground areas and are the result
of water movement through silts and jointed limestone. These conditions make
such areas unstable and susceptible to subsidence and surface collapse.
Fractures in the limestone may channel runoff water to public or private water
supplies, making those sources especially susceptible to groundwater
contamination.
SITE: A parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading work
is performed as a single unified operation.
SLOPE DISTURBANCE LINE: The line which delineates relatively level building
areas from areas where slopes exceed eight percent (8%) and where special
precautions must be taken.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: All means, natural and manmade, used for conducting
stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final outlet
from a property. The stormwater drainage system includes, but is not limited
to, any of the following: conduits and appurtenance features, canals, channels,
ditches, streams, culverts, streets, storm sewers, detention basins, swales and
pumping stations.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within
a tributary drainage basin which are in excess of the infiltration capacity of
the soils of that basin, which flow over the surface of the ground or are
collected in channels or conduits.
STREAM: Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or natural or manmade
drainageway which has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or into which
surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
STRIPPING: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover, including
tree removal, by spraying or clearing, and storage removal of topsoil.
10-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a ten percent (10%)
chance of occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed
unless otherwise noted.
TIME OF CONCENTRATION: The elapsed time for stormwater to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
TRIBUTARY WATERSHED: All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to a
given point.
2-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a fifty percent (50%)
chance of occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed
unless otherwise noted.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
WATERSHED: All land area drained by or contributing water to the same stream,
creek, ditch, lake, marsh, stormwater facility, or groundwater or depressional
area.
WET BASIN: A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
WETLANDS: Defined by regulation as "those areas that are inundated or saturated
by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to
support, and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions". For general, but no
inclusive locations of designated "wetlands", refer to mapping prepared jointly
by the U.S. department of interior, fish and wildlife service and the Illinois
department of natural resources, office of resource conservation; national
wetlands inventory mapping, 1987. The applicant may be required to provide a
field investigation by a qualified wetland delineator. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010;
amd. 2012 Code)
9-10-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter applies to all new development or redevelopment in the village.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person, firm or corporation,
public or private, the state of Illinois and its agencies or political
subdivisions, the United States Of America and its agencies or political
subdivisions, or any agent, servant, officer or employee of any of the
foregoing which meets the following provisions or is otherwise exempted in this
chapter, shall commence any development activities without first having
obtained a building permit from the village:
   A.   Any new development or redevelopment that contains an area of ten
thousand (10,000) or more square feet of total impervious surface (i.e.,
streets, roof, patio or parking area, or any combination thereof); or (Ord.
904, 10-18-2010)
   B.   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill, or any combination thereof) that affects an area of one acre
or more; or (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Any land disturbing activity if the activity is within twenty five feet
(25') of a river, lake, pond, stream, sinkhole, or wetland; and is done in
conjunction with subsection A or B of this section; or
   D.   Any land disturbing activity on the sloping side of the slope
disturbance line and is in conjunction with subsection A, B or C of this
section. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   A building permit shall not be required for the following:
      1.   Any new development, redevelopment or other activity falling below
the minimum standards as set forth in section
9-10-4 of this chapter.
      2.   The agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the soil
and water conservation district, and including the construction of agricultural
structures.
      3.   The maintenance of any existing stormwater drainage/detention
component or structure or any existing soil erosion/sediment control component
or structure, including dredging, levee restoration, tree removal or other
function which maintains the original design capacities of the above.
      4.   The construction of, improvements to, or the maintenance of any
street, road, highway or interstate highway performed by any unit of government
whose powers grant such authority.
   B.   A building permit is required for the following uses but shall not be
subject to the provisions of section
9-10-10 of this chapter: any land disturbing activity that is one acre (43,560
square feet) or less; or development of tracts of land where not more than one
single-family dwelling is being erected; or any lots in a new subdivision of
land where the lots front and have their sole access on an existing street or
roadway.
   C.   1. The village board may, in accordance with the following procedures,
authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and regulations set forth in
this chapter:
         a.   That the land is of such shape or size, or is affected by such
physical conditions, or is subject to such title limitations of record that it
is impossible for the applicant to comply with all of the requirements of this
chapter;
         b.   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant; and
         c.   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare, environment or injurious to other property in the vicinity of
the subject property.
      2.   Each application for an exception shall be made to the building and
zoning administrator. The administrator will review and transmit
recommendations to the village board, which shall review such recommendations
prior to granting or denying the exception.
      3.   The village board shall hold a public hearing on each application
for exception within thirty (30) days after receiving the application in the
manner established by ordinance. Within thirty (30) days after public hearing,
the village board shall either approve the site building permit application
with the exceptions and conditions it deems necessary, or it shall disapprove
such permit application and exception application, or it shall take other such
action as appropriate. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-6: VILLAGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Permit; Fee: Application for a building permit shall be
made by the owner of the property or his authorized agent to the building and
zoning administrator on a form furnished for that purpose. Each application
shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the site,
the contractor(s) and any consulting firm retained by the applicant, together
with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such firm, and shall be
accompanied by a filing fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for any permit
subject to the requirements of section
9-10-10 of this chapter. No permit fee is assessed for those developments where
only the requirements of section
9-10-11 of this chapter apply. Each application shall include certification
that any land clearing, construction, or development involving the movement of
earth shall be in accordance with the plans approved upon issuance of the
permit.
   B.   Bond, Security Required: The applicant for a building permit may be
required to file with the village a faithful performance bond or bonds, letter
of credit, or other improvement security satisfactory to the village attorney
in an amount deemed sufficient by the building and zoning administrator to
cover all costs of improvements, landscaping, maintenance of improvements and
landscaping, and soil erosion and sediment control measures for such period as
specified by the village, and engineering and inspection costs to cover the
cost of failure or repair of improvements installed on the site.
   C.   Review And Approval: Each application for a building permit shall be
reviewed and acted upon according to the following procedures:
      1.   The building and zoning administrator will review each application
for a building permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. The administrator may also refer any application to the county soil
and water conservation district, a consulting engineer retained by the village,
and/or any other local government or public agency within whose jurisdiction
the site is located for review and comment. Within thirty (30) days after
receiving an application, the building and zoning administrator shall, in
writing:
         a.   Approve the permit application if it is found to be in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, and issue the permit;
         b.   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
chapter, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
         c.   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
      2.   No building permit shall be issued for an intended development site
unless:
         a.   The development including, but not limited to, subdivision or
planned unit development, has been approved by the village, where applicable;
or
         b.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with any other
regulatory permits issued by the village; or
         c.   The proposed earthmoving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the village for the area in which
the site is situated; and
         d.   All relevant federal and state permits have been received for the
portion of the site subject to soil disturbance as noted in section
9-10-7 of this chapter.
      3.   Failure of the building and zoning administrator to act on an
original or revised application within thirty (30) days of receipt shall
authorize the applicant to proceed in accordance with the plans as filed and in
compliance with the regulations contained herein, unless such time is extended
by agreement between the building and zoning administrator and the applicant.
Pending preparation and approval of a revised plan, development activities
shall be allowed to proceed in accordance with conditions established by the
building and zoning administrator.
   D.   Final Certification: Prior to final approval by the village, a
registered professional engineer shall certify that the detention basin has
been constructed in accordance with construction plans and proposed volume has
been provided. An as built survey of the detention basin, prepared by a
licensed surveyor, shall be included with the certification for approval.
   E.   Expiration Of Permit: Every development permit shall expire and become
null and void if the work authorized by such permit has not been commenced
within one hundred eighty (180) days, or if not completed by a date which shall
be specified in the permit; except, that the building and zoning administrator
may, if the permittee presents satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties
have prevented work being commenced or completed within the specified time
limits, grant a reasonable extension of time if written application is made
before the expiration date of the permit. The building and zoning administrator
may require modification of the erosion control plan to prevent any increase in
erosion or off site sediment runoff resulting from any extension.
   F.   Appeals: The applicant, or any person or agency which received notice
of the filing of the application, may appeal the decision of the building and
zoning administrator to the village board. Upon receipt of an appeal, the
village board shall schedule and hold a public hearing, after giving fifteen
(15) days' notice thereof. The board shall render a decision within thirty (30)
days after the hearing. Factors to be considered on review shall include, but
need not be limited to, the effects of the proposed development activities on
the surface water flow to tributary and downstream lands, any comprehensive
watershed management plans, or the use of any retention facilities; possible
saturation of fill and unsupported cuts of said fill by water, both natural and
domestic; runoff of surface waters that produce erosion and siltation of
drainageways; nature and type of soil; and excessive and unnecessary scarring
of the natural landscape through grading or removal of vegetation. (Ord. 904,
10-18-2010)
9-10-7: OTHER PERMITS REQUIRED:
Before a development permit under this chapter becomes effective, all required
federal, state, and local permits will have been officially approved. The
acquisition of these permits shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant.
These may include, but are not limited to, section 404 of the clean waters act,
section 106 of the national historic preservation act, section 10 of the rivers
and harbors act, or permitting required by the Illinois department of natural
resources, office of water resources, in accordance with the rivers, lakes and
streams act, 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4.9 et seq., the soil and water
conservation districts act, 70 Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/1 et seq., and
the national pollutant discharge elimination system permit (NPDES) through the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of water pollution control.
Compliance is also required with, but not limited to, section
9-2-1 of this title and titles 10 and 11 of this code. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010;
amd. 2012 Code)
9-10-8: NPDES COMPLIANCE:
New developments and redevelopments that are applicable to this chapter (per
section
9-10-4 of this chapter) must comply with the NPDES regulations (the general
NPDES permit no. ILR40 and the NOI). NPDES compliance is obtained by adhering
to this chapter, ILR10 permits, the general NPDES for the village and the NOI
submitted for each individual community and all future steps taken by the
individual communities to implement the NOI. In accordance with the general
NPDES permit no. ILR40 and the NOI, the village will comply and implement
activities as outlined in the following:
"Public Education And Outreach On Storm Water Impacts".
"Public Involvement/Participation".
"Illicit Discharge Detection And Elimination".
"Construction Site Storm Water Runoff Control".
"Post-Construction Storm Water Management In New Development And
Redevelopment".
"Pollution Prevention/Good Housekeeping".
(Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-9: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The applicant shall not be relieved of responsibility for damage to persons or
property otherwise imposed by law, and the village or its officers or agents
will not be made liable for such damage by:
   A.   The issuance of a building permit under this chapter;
   B.   Compliance with the provisions of that building permit or conditions
attached to it by the building and zoning administrator;
   C.   Failure of the village officials to observe or recognize hazardous or
unsightly conditions;
   D.   Failure of the village officials to recommend denial or to deny a
building permit; or
   E.   Exemptions from the building permit requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-10: STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION:
9-10-10-1: DRAINAGE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Each applicant shall submit the following information to ensure that the
provisions of this chapter are met. The submittal shall include sufficient
information to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the property, the
potential adverse impacts and benefits of the development on water resources,
both on site and off site, and the effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan
in managing stormwater runoff, and meet the provisions of section
9-10-7 of this chapter. The applicant shall certify on the drawings that all
clearing, grading, drainage, and construction shall be accomplished in strict
conformance with the drainage plan. The following information shall be
submitted for both existing and proposed property conditions for all new
development or redevelopment:
   A.   A topographic survey of the property at two foot (2') contours unless
otherwise specified or approved by the village. If the mapping is compiled
using a digital format and the global positioning system (GPS), the applicant
will provide both paper and digital copies including GPS points.
   B.   An existing drainage and proposed drainage plan for the property and
one hundred feet (100') surrounding the property at a scale of not more than
one hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100') and including the following:
      1.   Property boundary, dimensions, and approximate acreage.
      2.   Building setback lines.
      3.   All existing and proposed structures and sizes.
      4.   Area in square feet of existing and proposed impervious surface.
      5.   All existing or proposed easements.
      6.   All existing, abandoned, or proposed water or monitoring wellhead
locations.
      7.   All sanitary or combined sewer lines and septic systems.
      8.   Banks and centerline of streams and channels.
      9.   Shoreline of lakes, ponds, and detention basins with normal water
level elevation.
      10.   Known farm drains and tiles.
      11.   Soils classifications.
      12.   Location, size and slope of stormwater conduits and drainage
swales.
      13.   Depressional storage areas.
      14.   Detention facilities.
      15.   Roads, streets and associated stormwater inlets including finished
grades.
      16.   Base flood elevation, flood fringe, and regulatory floodway.
      17.   Basis of design for the final drainage network components.
      18.   A statement giving any applicable engineering assumptions and
calculations.
      19.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the site to its general
surroundings at a scale of not less than two thousand feet to the inch (1" =
2,000').
      20.   Title, scale, north arrow, legend, seal of a licensed professional
engineer, and date and name of the person preparing the plans.
      21.   Cross section data for open channel flow paths and designated
overland flow paths.
      22.   Direction of storm flows.
      23.   Flow rates and velocities at critical points in the drainage system
(may be included in the supporting documentation).
      24.   A statement by the design engineer of the drainage system's
provision for handling events greater than the 100-year, twenty four (24) hour
runoff (may be included in the supporting documentation).
      25.   A statement of certification of all drainage plans, calculations,
and supporting data by a licensed professional engineer.
   C.   A depiction of environmental features of the property and the immediate
vicinity including the following:
      1.   The limits of designated regulatory and nonregulatory wetland areas;
      2.   The location and limits of known sinkholes (karst areas);
      3.   Any known designated natural areas and prime farmland; and
      4.   Any known proposed environmental mitigation features. (Ord. 904, 10-
18-2010)
9-10-10-2: MINIMIZATION OF INCREASES IN RUNOFF VOLUMES AND RATES:
In the selection of a drainage plan for a new development or redevelopment, the
applicant shall evaluate and implement site design features which minimize the
increase in runoff volumes and rates from the site. The applicant's drainage
plan submittal shall include evaluations of site design features which are
consistent with the following hierarchy:
   A.   Preservation of regulatory floodplains and flood prone and wetland
areas;
   B.   Minimize impervious surfaces on the property, consistent with the needs
of the project;
   C.   Attenuate flows by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions
and preserve the existing natural stream channel;
   D.   Infiltration of runoff on site;
   E.   Provide stormwater retention structures;
   F.   Provide wet or wetland detention structures;
   G.   Provide dry detention structures; and
   H.   Construct storm sewers. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-10-3: WATER QUALITY AND MULTIPLE USES:
   A.   The drainage system should be designed to minimize adverse surface
water and groundwater quality impacts off site and on the property itself.
Detention basins shall incorporate design features to capture stormwater runoff
pollutants. When designers propose wet bottom and wetland type designs, all
flows from the development shall be routed through the basin (i.e., low flows
shall not be bypassed). When it is not practical or feasible to route all of
the project's flow to the detention basin, the design of the basin shall
compensate for the bypass flow. In cases where detention facilities are
practical and the long term maintenance of such facilities is provided,
detention of stormwater shall be promoted through the property's drainage
system to reduce the volume of stormwater runoff and to reduce the quantity of
runoff pollutants.
   B.   The drainage system should incorporate multiple uses where practicable.
Uses considered compatible with stormwater management include open space,
aesthetics, aquatic habitat, recreation (boating, fishing, trails, playing
fields), wetlands and water quality mitigation.
   C.   Water quality shall adhere to: (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
      1.   The Illinois environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11 and 5/12, from Illinois Revised Statutes chapter 1111/2,
paragraphs 1011 and 1012; (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Illinois pollution control board rules and regulations, title 35:
environmental protection, subtitle C: water pollution, chapter I: pollution
control board, part 302 water quality standards; and
      3.   Illinois pollution control board rules and regulations, title 35:
environmental protection, subtitle C: water pollution, chapter I: pollution
control board, part 304 effluent standards. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-10-4: DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND METHODS:
   A.   Release Rates: The drainage system for new developments or
redevelopments shall be designed to control the peak rate of discharge from the
property for the 2-year, twenty four (24) hour and 100-year, twenty four (24)
hour events to discharge rates at or below those which existed prior to
development. Additionally, the discharge from a stormwater detention facility
shall not cause an increase in flooding or channel instability downstream when
considered in aggregate with other developed properties and downstream drainage
capacities.
   B.   Detention Basin Outlet Design:
      1.   The detention basin outlet control structure shall be designed to
account for observed or anticipated downstream tailwater elevations. The
tailwater elevations used in the detention model shall be for the particular
storm frequency being routed through the detention basin. An emergency spillway
or overflow device shall be provided and set at an elevation equivalent to the
100-year design high water.
      2.   A calculation shall be made to determine the water elevation in the
detention basin that would result from a 100-year storm with the outflow
control structure openings blocked. The discharge rate flowing through the
emergency spillway shall not exceed the 100-year predevelopment flow rate. The
top of bank for the detention basin shall be set at least one foot (1') above
this elevation. The lowest finished floor elevation of adjacent structures
shall also be at least one foot (1') above the detention basin top of bank.
   C.   Detention Storage Requirements: See subsection A of this section.
   D.   Drainage System Design And Evaluation: The following criteria should be
used in evaluating and designing the drainage system. The design will provide
capacity to pass the 10-year peak flow rate in the minor drainage system and an
overload flow path for flows in excess of the design capacity.
      1.   Design Methodologies: Detention basin design shall be calculated
using SCS TR-55 methods. Basins with drainage areas of ten (10) acres or less
may be calculated using the rational method as approved by the Illinois
department of transportation. Other applicable methods, i.e., HEC-1, TR-20,
SWMM, etc., shall be used for large watersheds.
      2.   Positive Drainage: When practical, all developments must be provided
an overland flow path that will pass the 100-year, twenty four (24) hour event
flow at a stage at least one foot (1') below the lowest grade, adjacent to a
structure, in the vicinity of the flow path. Street ponding and flow depths
shall not exceed curb heights.
   E.   Rainfall: Unless a continuous simulation approach to drainage system
hydrology is used, all design rainfall events shall be based on the Illinois
state water survey's bulletin 70. The first quartile point rainfall
distribution shall be used for the design and analysis of conveyance systems
with critical durations less than or equal to six (6) hours. The second
quartile distribution shall be used for storms with durations greater than six
(6) hours and less than or equal to twelve (12) hours. The third quartile point
rainfall distribution shall be used for the design and analysis of detention
basins and conveyance system with critical durations greater than twelve (12)
and less than or equal to twenty four (24) hours. The fourth quartile
distribution shall be used in the design and analysis of systems with durations
greater than twenty four (24) hours. The first, third, and fourth quartile
distributions described by Huff are presented in table 37 of bulletin 70. Refer
to table 13 of bulletin 70 for rainfall depth, duration, and frequency. The
NRCS type II distribution may be used as an alternate to the Huff
distributions. The total rainfall value for the design storm shall be adjusted
for the "St. Louis Urban Effect" as given in table 4, Illinois state water
survey circular 172.
   F.   Antecedent Moisture: Average antecedent moisture conditions shall be
assumed when calculating runoff curve numbers for use in the SCS TR-55 method.
   G.   Wet Detention Basin Design:
      1.   Wet detention basins shall be designed to remove stormwater
pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as much as feasible,
to be available for recreational use.
      2.   Wet basins shall be at least three feet (3') deep, excluding
nearshore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be provided, they
shall be at least eight feet (8') deep over twenty five percent (25%) of the
bottom area to prevent winter kill.
      3.   The side slopes of wet basins at the normal pool elevation shall not
be steeper than three to one (3:1) (horizontal to vertical). It is recommended
that aquatic vegetation be established around the perimeter to provide
protection from shoreline erosion. For basins in excess of five (5) acres,
riprap shoreline protection shall be provided.
      4.   The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at normal depth shall, at a
minimum, be equal to the runoff volume from its watershed for the 2-year,
twenty four (24) hour event (calculated during dry weather conditions).
      5.   The distance between detention inlets and outlets shall be
maximized. Inlets and outlets shall be at opposite ends of the basin; provided,
that the orientation does not create undue hardship based on topography or
other natural constraints.
   H.   Dry Detention Basin Design:
      1.   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, dry basins
shall be designed to remove stormwater pollutants, to be safe, to be
aesthetically pleasing and, as much as feasible, to be available for multiple
uses. Paved low flow channels may be used in a dry basin, provided provisions
are made to prevent ponding.
      2.   Dry basins shall be designed so that eighty percent (80%) of their
bottom area shall have standing water no longer than seventy two (72) hours for
any runoff event less than the 100-year, twenty four (24) hour event. Grading
plans shall clearly distinguish the wet portion of the basin bottom.
Underdrains directed to the outlet may be used to accomplish this requirement.
      3.   Velocity dissipation measures shall be incorporated into dry basin
designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets and to minimize resuspension
of pollutants.
      4.   Dry basin inlet and outlet orientation shall be the same as
subsection G5 of this section.
   I.   Existing Depressional Areas: Existing depressional storage volume will
be maintained, and the volume of detention storage provided to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to existing storage.
   J.   Minimum Detention Outlet Size: Where a single pipe outlet orifice plate
is to be used to control discharge, it shall have a minimum diameter of twelve
inches (12") for larger basins. Smaller basins may install a smaller
rectangular or v-notch weir to control discharge. If this minimum orifice size
permits release rates greater than those specified in this section, and
regional detention is not a practical alternative, outlets, structures such as
perforated risers, or flow control orifices shall be used.
   K.   Detention In Floodplains: The placement of detention basins within the
floodplain is strongly discouraged because of questions about their reliable
operation during flood events. However, the stormwater detention requirements
of this chapter may be fulfilled by providing detention storage within flood
fringe areas on the project site, provided the following provisions are met as
well as compliance with section
9-10-7 of this chapter:
      1.   Detention In Flood Fringe Areas: The placement of a detention basin
in a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume below the base flood elevation occupied by the detention
basin including any terms. The release from the detention storage provided
shall still be controlled consistent with the requirements of this subsection.
The applicant shall demonstrate its operation for all stream flow and
floodplain backwater conditions. Excavations for compensatory storage along
watercourses shall be opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention.
All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced below the existing 10-year elevation. All floodplain storage lost
above the existing 10-year elevation shall be replaced above the existing 10-
year flood elevation. All compensatory storage excavations shall be constructed
to drain freely and openly to the watercourse and comply with section
9-10-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Detention On Prime Farmland: The placement of detention basins shall
avoid the utilization of prime farmland. All detention basin construction shall
examine potential impacts to adjacent agricultural land and shall address
measures that will be implemented to eliminate such impacts and comply with
section
9-10-7 of this chapter.
      3.   Detention In Floodways: Detention basins shall be placed in the
floodway only in accordance with this subsection.
      4.   On Stream Detention: On stream detention basins are discouraged but
allowable if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other
provisions of this chapter with respect to water quality and control of the
100-year, twenty four (24) hour event from the property. Further criteria are
presented in section
9-10-10-5 of this chapter. If on stream detention is used in watersheds larger
than one square mile, the applicant will use hydrographic modeling to
demonstrate that the design will not increase the water level for any
properties upstream or downstream of the property. Also, impoundment of the
stream as part of on stream detention:
         a.   Shall not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species which
require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for
spawning;
         b.   Shall not cause or contribute to the degradation of water quality
or stream aquatic habitat;
         c.   Shall include a design calling for gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin;
         d.   Shall not involve any stream channelization or the filling of
wetlands;
         e.   Shall require the implementation of an effective nonpoint source
management program throughout the upstream watershed which shall include, as a
minimum: runoff reduction best management practices" (BMPs) consistent with
section
9-10-10-2 of this chapter; 2-year, twenty four (24) hour detention/
sedimentation basin for all development consistent with this subsection;
         f.   Shall not occur downstream of a wastewater discharge;
         g.   Shall not contribute to the duration or flood frequency of any
adjacent land; and
         h.   Shall comply with section
9-10-7 of this chapter.
   L.   Drainage Into Wetlands, Rivers, Streams, Lakes, Ponds And Depressional
Storage Areas: Wetlands, lakes, ponds and depressional storage areas shall be
protected from damaging modifications and adverse changes in runoff quality and
quantity associated with land developments. In addition to the other
requirements of this chapter, the following requirements shall be met for all
developments whose drainage flows into wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or
depressional storage areas:
      1.   Detention In Wetlands, Rivers, Streams, Lakes, Ponds Or Depressional
Storage Areas: Existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage
areas shall not be modified for the purpose of stormwater detention unless it
is demonstrated that the proposed modifications will maintain or improve its
habitat and ability to perform beneficial functions and shall comply with
section
9-10-7 of this chapter. Existing storage and release rate characteristics of
wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas shall be
maintained and the volume of detention storage provided to meet the
requirements of this subsection shall be in addition to the existing storage.
      2.   Sediment Control: The existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or
depressional storage areas shall be protected during construction and as
further regulated in section
9-10-11 of this chapter.
      3.   Alteration Of Drainage Patterns: Site drainage patterns shall not be
altered to substantially decrease or increase the existing area tributary to
the wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas.
      4.   Detention/Sedimentation: All runoff from the development shall be
routed through a preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture
the 2-year, twenty four (24) hour event and hold it for at least twenty four
(24) hours, before being discharged to the wetland, river, lake, pond or
depressional storage area. This basin shall be constructed before property
grading begins and shall be maintained throughout the construction process. In
addition, the drainage hierarchy defined in section
9-10-10-2 of this chapter should be followed to minimize runoff volumes and
rates being discharged to the wetland, river, stream, lake, pond or
depressional storage area and as further regulated in this section.
      5.   Loessal Soils: Care must be taken to avoid open flow discharges of
stormwater over silt (loessal) soils due to high potential for erosion.
      6.   Sinkholes (Karst Areas): The following requirements apply for new
developments or redevelopments where sinkholes are determined to be present:
         a.   A stormwater detention basin shall not be placed in or over a
sinkhole.
         b.   Stormwater detention basins shall not be located closer than one
hundred feet (100') from the rim of a sinkhole.
         c.   The outflow from a stormwater detention basin, channel, ditch or
any stormwater runoff generated as a result of a new development or
redevelopment shall not empty into or be directed or redirected by any means
into or through any sinkhole. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
         d.   If, after the review of the stormwater drainage plan, the
building and zoning administrator determines that more detailed information is
required, a sinkhole evaluation may be required. A sinkhole evaluation which
addresses the geologic, engineering and environmental factors resulting from a
new development or redevelopment shall be performed by a professional with
experience and expertise in karst topography, whom shall certify the results of
the evaluation. This evaluation shall be the responsibility of the applicant
and performed at no cost to the village. After a review of this evaluation and
with the consultation of the county soil and water conservation district, the
village building and zoning administrator may either approve or disapprove the
drainage plan as submitted. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
         e.   Whenever a new sinkhole appears or it becomes apparent that the
sinkhole has not yet been identified, it shall be reported to the county soil
and water conservation district.
         f.   Shall comply with section
9-10-7 of this chapter.
   M.   Street Detention, Parking Lot Detention And Culvert Drainage:
      1.   Street Detention: If streets are to be used as part of the minor or
major drainage system, ponding depths shall not exceed curb heights and shall
not remain flooded for more than eight (8) hours for any event less than or
equal to the 100-year, twenty four (24) hour event.
      2.   Parking Lot Detention: The maximum stormwater ponding depth in any
parking area shall not exceed six inches (6") for more than four (4) hours.
      3.   Culvert, Road And Driveway Crossings: Sizing of culvert crossings
shall consider entrance and exit losses as well as tailwater conditions on the
culvert.
   N.   Infiltration Practices:
      1.   To effectively reduce runoff volumes, infiltration practices
including basins, trenches, and porous pavement should be located in hydrologic
soil groups A and B as designated by the USDA natural resources conservation
service. Infiltration basins and trenches designed to recharge groundwater
shall not be located within seventy five feet (75') of a water supply well or
building foundation and comply with section
9-10-7 of this chapter. A sediment settling basin shall be provided to remove
coarse sediment from stormwater flows before they reach infiltration basins or
trenches. Stormwater shall not be allowed to stand more than seventy two (72)
hours over eighty percent (80%) of the dry basin's bottom area for the maximum
design event to be exfiltrated. The bottom of infiltration basins or trenches
shall be a minimum of four feet (4') above the seasonally high groundwater and
bedrock level. Engineering calculations demonstrating infiltration rates shall
be included with the application.
      2.   To effectively filter stormwater pollutants and promote infiltration
of runoff, sites should be designed to maximize the use of vegetated filter
strips and swales. Whenever practicable, runoff from impervious surfaces should
be directed onto filter strips and swales comprised of native grasses and forbs
before being routed to a storm sewer or detention basin.
   O.   Safety Considerations:
      1.   The drainage system components, especially all detention basins,
shall be designed to protect the safety of any children or adults coming in
contact with the system during runoff events and shall comply with section
9-10-7 of this chapter.
      2.   The side slopes of all detention basins at 100-year, twenty four
(24) hour capacity shall be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls
into the basin and for stability and ease of maintenance. Side slopes of
detention basins and open channels shall not be steeper than three to one (3:1)
(horizontal to vertical).
      3.   All wet detention basins shall have a level safety ledge at least
four feet (4') in width two and one-half feet (2.5') to three feet (3') below
the normal water depth or must be protected by an enclosed fence at least forty
eight inches (48") in height.
      4.   Velocities throughout the surface drainage system shall be
controlled to safe levels taking into consideration rates and depths of flow.
      5.   Overflow structures: See subsection B of this section.
   P.   Maintenance Considerations: The stormwater drainage system shall be
designed to minimize and facilitate maintenance. Turfed side slopes shall be
designed to allow lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins
shall be provided with alternate outflows which can be used to completely drain
the pool for sediment removal. Pumping may be considered if drainage by gravity
is not feasible. Presedimentation basins shall be included, where feasible, for
localizing sediment deposition and removal. Site access for heavy equipment
shall be provided. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-10-5: ACCOMMODATING FLOWS FROM UPSTREAM TRIBUTARY AREAS:
   A.   Stormwater runoff from areas tributary to the property shall be
considered in the design of the property's drainage system. Whenever
practicable, flows from upstream areas that are not to be detained should be
routed around the basin being provided for the site being developed.
   B.   1. When there are areas not meeting the storage and release rates of
this chapter, tributary to the applicant's property, regionalized detention on
the applicant's property shall/may be explored by the applicant or the county.
When it is deemed beneficial by the county or the applicant to explore such a
design, the following steps shall be followed:
         a.   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for his
property using the release rates of section
9-10-10-4 of this chapter, the applicant's property area, and the procedures
described in section
9-10-10-3 of this chapter.
         b.   Areas tributary to the applicant's property not meeting the
storage and release rate requirements of this chapter shall be identified.
         c.   Using the areas determined above plus the applicant's property
area, total storage needed for the combined properties shall be computed.
      2.   Allowable release rates shall be computed using the combined
property areas. Storage shall be computed as described in section
9-10-10-4 of this chapter. If tributary areas are not developed, a reasonable
fully developed land cover, based on local zoning, shall be assumed for the
purposes of computing storage.
      3.   Once the necessary combined storage is computed, the village may
choose to pay for oversizing the applicant's detention basin to accommodate the
regional flows. The applicant's responsibility will be limited to the storage
for his property as computed above. If regional storage is selected by the
county, then the design is produced in section
9-10-10-3 of this chapter shall be implemented. If regional storage is rejected
by the village, the applicant shall bypass all tributary area flows around the
applicant's basin whenever practicable. If the applicant must route upstream
flows through the basin and the upstream areas exceed one square mile in size,
the applicant must meet the provision of subsection
9-10-10-4K4 of this chapter for on stream basins.
   C.   When there are areas which meet the storage and release rate
requirements of this chapter, tributary to the applicant's property, the
upstream flows shall be bypassed around the applicant's detention basin if this
is the only practicable alternative. Storage needed for the applicant's
property shall be computed as described in subsection B of this section.
However, if the village decides to route tributary area flows through an
applicant's basin, the final design stormwater releases shall be based on the
combined total of the applicant's property plus tributary areas. It must be
shown that at no time will the release rate from the combined property exceed
the allowable release rate for applicant's property alone. (Ord. 904, 10-18-
2010)
9-10-10-6: EARLY COMPLETION OF DETENTION FACILITIES:
Where detention, retention, or depressional storage areas are to be used as
part of the drainage system for a property, they shall be constructed as the
first element of the initial earthwork program. Any eroded sediment captured in
these facilities shall be removed by the applicant on a regular basis and
before project completion in order to maintain the design volume of the
facilities. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-11: SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL:
9-10-11-1: FINDINGS:
The village hereby finds that:
   A.   The soil types found in the village are susceptible to erosion and, if
left unprotected, could cause severe loss of soil with resultant damage to
property;
   B.   The topography of the village in certain locations contains areas with
steep slopes upon which, if clearing of trees and/or inappropriate construction
takes place, could result in severe erosion and slope stability problems which
could result in damage to property;
   C.   Excessive quantities of soil may erode from areas undergoing
development for certain nonagricultural uses including, but not limited to, the
construction of dwelling units, commercial buildings and industrial plants, the
building of roads and highways, the modification of stream channels and
drainageways, and the creation of recreational facilities;
   D.   The washing, blowing, and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
   E.   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gullies, washed out
fills, and embankments;
   F.   Sediment from soil erosion tends to clog sewers and ditches and to
pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes, sinkholes, wetlands, and reservoirs;
   G.   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most beneficial
purposes, promotes the growth of undesirable aquatic weeds, destroys fish and
other desirable aquatic life, and is costly and difficult to remove; and
   H.   Sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways and the storage
capacity of floodplains and natural depressions, resulting in increased chances
of flooding at risk to public health and safety. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-11-2: GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
It is the objective of this chapter to control soil erosion and sedimentation
caused by development activities, including clearing, grading, stripping,
excavating, and filling of land, in the village. Measures taken to control soil
erosion and off site sediment runoff shall be adequate to assure that sediment
is not transported from the site by a storm event of 10-year, twenty four (24)
hour frequency or less. The following principles shall apply to all new
development or redevelopment activities within the village and to the
preparation of the submissions required under section
9-10-11-3 of this chapter:
   A.   New development or redevelopment shall be related to the topography and
soils of the site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of
steep slopes greater than thirty three percent (33%) where high cuts and fills
may be required are to be avoided whenever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   B.   Natural vegetation shall be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds, sinkholes,
and wetlands are to be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary crossings
of watercourses, when permitted, must include appropriate stabilization
measures.
   C.   Special precautions shall be taken to prevent damages resulting from
any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake,
pond, sinkhole, or wetland. Preventive measures shall reflect the sensitivity
of these areas to erosion and sedimentation.
   D.   Water quality shall adhere to: (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
      1.   The Illinois environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11 and 5/12, from Illinois Revised Statutes chapter 1111/2,
paragraphs 1011 and 1012; (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Illinois pollution control board rules and regulations, title 35:
environmental protection, subtitle C: water pollution, chapter I: pollution
control board, part 302 water quality standards; and
      3.   Illinois pollution control board rules and regulations, title 35:
environmental protection, subtitle C: water pollution, chapter I: pollution
control board, part 304 effluent standards.
   E.   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetics
and the requirements of continuing maintenance must be considered.
   F.   Provisions shall be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changing soil and surface conditions during and after development. Drainageways
should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant velocities
and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion on site or
downstream.
   G.   Permanent vegetation and structures shall be installed and functional
as soon as practical during development.
   H.   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other land
uses shall be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
   I.   All waste generated as a result of site development activity shall be
properly disposed of and shall be prevented from being carried off the site by
either wind or water.
   J.   All construction sites shall provide measures to prevent sediment from
being tracked onto public or private roadways.
   K.   All temporary soil erosion and sediment control practices shall be
maintained to function as intended until the contributing drainage area has
been permanently stabilized, at which time, they shall be removed. (Ord. 904,
10-18-2010)
9-10-11-3: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Each applicant shall submit the information, depending on development size, as
regulated to ensure that the provisions of this chapter are met. The submittal
shall include sufficient information to evaluate the environmental
characteristics of the property, the potential adverse impacts of the
development related to erosion both on site and off site, and the effectiveness
of the proposed erosion and sediment control plan in reducing sediment loss and
meet the provisions of section
9-10-7 of this chapter. The applicant shall certify on the drawing that all
clearing, grading, drainage, and construction shall be accomplished in strict
conformance with the erosion and sediment control plan. The following
information shall be submitted for both existing and proposed property
conditions, new development or redevelopments meeting the requirements of
section
9-10-4 of this chapter:
   A.   Erosion and sediment control plan requirements shall meet the
requirements of section
9-10-7 and subsections
9-10-10-1A and B of this chapter.
   B.   The existing and proposed erosion and sediment control features of the
property and immediate vicinity including:
      1.   As required in subsections
9-10-10-1A, B and C of this chapter.
      2.   Location of the slope disturbance line.
      3.   Location and description of the erosion and sediment control
measures to be employed during construction.
      4.   For any structures proposed to be located on the slope side of the
slope disturbance line, the map shall include the limits of disturbance
including tree removal, erosion and sediment control measures during
construction, cross section view of any proposed cut or fill, details of method
(s) proposed for providing slope stability, permanent stormwater control
measures, and permanent erosion and sediment control measures, all being
certified by a registered professional engineer or a certified professional
erosion control specialist.
      5.   The predominant soil types on the site, their location, and their
limitations for the proposed use as defined by the USDA natural resources
conservation service.
      6.   The proposed use of the site, including present and planned
development, areas of clearing, stripping, grading, excavation and filling;
proposed contours, finished grades, and street profiles; the stormwater plan as
required in section
9-10-10 of this chapter; kinds and locations of utilities; areas and acreages
proposed to be paved, sodded or seeded, vegetatively stabilized, or left
undisturbed; and the location of specimen trees over eighteen inches (18") in
diameter and their type.
      7.   The erosion and sediment control plan showing all measures necessary
to meet requirements of this chapter throughout all phases of construction and
those remaining permanently after completion of the development of the site,
including:
         a.   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures, runoff control measures, including diversions,
waterways and outlets, and design specifics of sediment basins and traps
including outlet details.
         b.   Location and description of all soil stabilization and erosion
control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of
seedbed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and
fertilizer application, kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and
permanent vegetative control measures, and types of nonvegetative stabilization
measures.
         c.   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of
sediment off site including construction entrance details, as appropriate.
         d.   Description of dust and traffic control measures.
         e.   Locations of stockpiles and description of stabilization methods.
         f.   Locations of off site fills or borrow volumes, and locations and
methods of stabilization.
         g.   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including type
and frequency of maintenance, easements, and estimates of the cost of
maintenance.
         h.   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing will
begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared area, and the sequence of
installation of temporary sediment control measures (including perimeter
controls), installation of stormwater drainage, paving streets and parking
areas, final grading and the establishment of permanent vegetative cover, and
the removal of temporary measures. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to notify the building and zoning administrator of any significant
changes which occur in the site development schedule after the initial erosion
and sediment control plan has been approved. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-11-4: DESIGN AND OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The preparation of soil erosion and sediment control plans shall follow
the principles outlined in the "Illinois Procedures And Standards For Urban
Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control", except chapter 6, published by the
Urban Committee Of The Association Of Illinois Soil And Water Conservation
Districts. The design criteria, standards, and methods shall be prepared in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the standards and
specifications contained in "Illinois Urban Manual" prepared for the Illinois
environmental protection agency by the USDA natural resources conservation
service, which standards and methods are hereby incorporated into this chapter
by reference. In the event of conflict between the provisions of said manuals
and of this chapter, this chapter shall govern.
   B.   New developments or redevelopments shall comply with section
9-10-11-3 of this chapter and shall meet the following:
      1.   Control measures shall be constructed to control runoff from the
property to such an extent possible that sediment is retained on site.
      2.   Temporary on site control measures required shall be constructed and
functional prior to initiating clearing, grading, stripping, excavating or fill
activities on the site.
      3.   Disturbed areas shall be stabilized with permanent measures within
seven (7) calendar days following the end of active disturbance, or
redisturbance consistent with the following criteria:
         a.   Appropriate permanent stabilization measures shall include
seeding, mulching, sodding, with nonvegetative measures as a last resort.
         b.   Areas having slopes greater than thirty three percent (33%) shall
be stabilized with sod, mat, or blanket in combination with seeding or
equivalent.
      4.   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices
must be maintained and repaired as needed to assure effective performance of
their intended function.
      5.   On site sediment control measures, as specified by the following
criteria, shall be constructed as specified in the referenced handbooks, and
functional prior to initiating clearing, grading, stripping, excavating or fill
activities on the site:
         a.   For new developments or redevelopments less than one acre or for
a tract of land where a single-family dwelling is being erected and less than
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of impervious surface is being developed,
filter barriers (including filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent control
measures) shall be constructed to control all on site runoff. Vegetated filter
strips, with a minimum width of twenty five feet (25'), may be used as an
alternative only where runoff in sheet flow is expected.
         b.   For new developments or redevelopments more than one acre but
less than five (5) acres, a sediment trap designed in accordance with the IEPA
"Standards And Specifications For Soil Erosion" or equivalent control measures
shall be constructed at the downslope point of the disturbed area.
         c.   For new developments or redevelopments greater than five (5)
acres, a sediment basin or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at
the downslope point of the disturbed area.
         d.   Sediment basin and sediment trap designs shall provide for both
"dry" detention and "wet" detention sediment storage. The detention storage
shall be composed of equal volumes of "wet" detention storage and "dry"
detention storage, and each shall be sized as regulated in section
9-10-10 of this chapter. The release rate of the basin shall be that rate as
regulated in said section
9-10-10. The elevation of the outlet structure shall be placed such that it
only drains the dry detention storage.
         e.   The sediment storage shall be sized to store the estimated
sediment load generated from the site over the duration of the construction
period with a minimum storage equivalent to the volume or sediment generated in
one year. For construction periods exceeding one year, the one year sediment
load and a sediment removal schedule may be substituted.
         f.   The alteration of sinkholes by filling, grading, or excavating is
prohibited, including an area within twenty five feet (25') from the rim.
         g.   To the extent possible or as otherwise regulated in this chapter,
all desirable trees eight inches (8") in diameter and larger shall be protected
for their present and future value for erosion protection and other
environmental benefits. Trees that have been selected for preservation shall be
marked prior to the beginning of any clearing, grading, stripping, excavation,
or filling of the site. A "no construction zone" shall be established and
marked at the perimeter of the drip line of each tree which is to be preserved.
      6.   Stormwater conveyance channels, including ditches, swales, and
diversions, and the outlets of all channels and pipes shall be designed and
constructed as regulated in section
9-10-10 of this chapter. All constructed or modified channels shall be
stabilized within forty eight (48) hours, consistent with the standards as
required in the IEPA erosion control manual "Standards And Specifications For
Soil Erosion And Sediment Control".
      7.   Land disturbance activities in stream channels shall be avoided,
where possible, or as regulated in section
9-10-10 of this chapter. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the
following requirements shall be met:
         a.   Construction vehicles shall be kept out of the stream channel to
the maximum extent practicable. Where construction crossings are necessary,
temporary crossings shall be constructed of nonerosive material, such as riprap
or gravel.
         b.   The time and area of disturbance of stream channels shall be kept
to a minimum. The stream channel, including bed and banks, shall be stabilized
within forty eight (48) hours after channel disturbance is completed,
interrupted, or stopped.
      8.   Storm sewer inlets and culverts shall be protected by sediment traps
or filter barriers meeting accepted design standards and specifications.
      9.   Soil storage piles containing more than ten (10) cubic yards of
material shall not be located with a downslope drainage length of less than
twenty five feet (25') to a roadway, drainage channel, or sinkhole. Filter
barriers, including straw bales, filter fence, or equivalent, shall be
installed immediately on the downslope side of the piles.
      10.   If dewatering devices are used, discharge locations shall be
protected from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be routed through
appropriately designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent, and shall not
be deposited into a sinkhole.
      11.   Each site shall have graveled (or equivalent) entrance roads,
access, drives, and parking areas of sufficient length and width to prevent
sediment from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment
reaching a public or private road shall be removed by shoveling or street
cleaning (not flushing) before the end of each workday and transported to a
controlled sediment disposal area. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-11-5: MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES:
All soil erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be maintained periodically by the applicant
or subsequent landowner during the period of land disturbance and development
of the site in a satisfactory manner to ensure adequate performance. (Ord. 904,
10-18-2010)
9-10-11-6: CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION SITE WASTES:
All waste materials generated during construction activities must be properly
disposed. Examples of construction site waste may consist of, but not be
limited to, all building materials, raised structure debris, concrete
(including concrete truck wash), asphalt, brick, excess soil, rebar, erosion
and sediment control materials, cleared vegetation, chemicals, temporary
bathroom facilities and all other construction site wastes. (Ord. 904, 10-18-
2010)
9-10-11-7: CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN:
   A.   Activities that are applicable to this chapter, per section
9-10-4 of this chapter, must provide a construction site stormwater pollution
prevention plan (CSSPPP).
   B.   The CSSPPP may be a full sized plan sheet with necessary notes for
requirements or may be a narrative explaining construction site operating
procedures to minimize or eliminate stormwater pollution as a result of
construction activities.
   C.   The items covered in an approvable CSSPPP are dependent on the
activities and the materials required on site to complete the project.
Therefore, the detail of the plan may be more or less depending on site
activities planned. Standard items included in a CSSPPP are, but are not
limited to:
      1.   Purpose.
      2.   Construction site description.
      3.   Activities/materials to be addressed.
      4.   Construction site operating procedures.
      5.   Activities/materials monitoring and maintenance.
      6.   Emergency and spill procedures. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
   D.   Should construction site activities/materials change during
construction, the CSSPPP must reflect the changes. Therefore, the plan must be
kept on site at all times and be altered as necessary with the approval of the
building and zoning administrator or his designated agent. Should major changes
be warranted, a revised plan must be submitted for review and approval. (Ord.
904, 10-18-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
9-10-12: LONG TERM MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
Maintenance of stormwater drainage and erosion and sediment control facilities
located on private property shall be the responsibility of the owner of that
property. Before an appropriate permit is obtained from the village, the
applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the village guaranteeing
that the applicant and all future owners of the property will maintain its
stormwater drainage and erosion and sediment control system and shall provide
for access to the system for inspection by authorized personnel of the village.
The maintenance agreement shall also stipulate that if the appropriate
personnel of the village notify the property owner in writing of maintenance
problems which require correction, the property owner shall begin such
corrections within twenty four (24) hours and shall not extend beyond seven (7)
calendar days of such notification. If the corrections are not made within this
time period, the village may have the necessary work completed and assess the
cost to the property owner. The village has the option of requiring a bond to
be filed by the property owner for maintenance of the stormwater drainage and
erosion and sediment control system. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-13: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The village shall make inspections as hereinafter required and shall
either approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify the permittee
wherein the work fails to comply with the stormwater drainage or erosion and
sedimentation control plan as approved. Plans for grading, stripping,
excavating, and filling work bearing the stamp of approval of the village shall
be maintained at the site during progress of the work. In order to obtain
inspections and to ensure compliance with this chapter, the permittee shall
notify the building and zoning administrator within two (2) working days of the
completion of the following construction stages:
         a.   Upon completion of installation of the stormwater drainage and
erosion and sediment control measures (including perimeter controls and
diversions), prior to proceeding with any other earth disturbance or grading;
         b.   After stripping and clearing;
         c.   After final grading;
         d.   After seeding and landscaping deadlines; and
         e.   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of
sediment controls.
      2.   If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in
phases or areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at the
completion of each of the work stages enumerated in subsection A1 of this
section in each phase or area. If an inspection is not made and notification of
the results given within five (5) working days after notice is received by the
village from the permittee, the permittee may continue work at his/her own
risk, without presuming acceptance by the village. Notification of the results
of the inspection shall be given in writing at the site. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
   B.   Reports Required: Inspection reports shall be submitted to the village
every two (2) weeks for all development permits. Except for permits involving
the development of one single- family dwelling, the said reports must describe
the current status of construction for proposed drainage and detention system,
including whether drainage construction and erosion control has been installed
in accordance with construction plans. The reports shall define whether
maintenance has been provided as needed for the erosion. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010;
amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Special Precautions:
      1.   If, at any stage of the grading of any development site, the
building and zoning administrator or his designated agent determines by
inspection that the nature of the site is such that further work authorized by
an existing permit is likely to imperil any property, public way, stream, lake,
wetland, or drainage structure, the village may require, as a condition of
allowing the work to be done, that such reasonable special precautions to be
taken as is considered advisable to avoid the likelihood of such peril.
"Special precautions" may include, but shall not be limited to, a more level
exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities, berms,
terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant materials for erosion
control, and recommendations of a registered soils engineer and/or engineering
geologist which may be made requirements for further work.
      2.   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading on
any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee
required to install temporary structures or take such other measures as may be
required to protect adjoining property or the public safety. On large
developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the building and zoning
administrator may specify the time of starting grading and time of completion
or may require that the operations be conducted in specific stages so as to
ensure completion of protective measures or devices prior to the advent of
seasonal rains.
   D.   Amendment Of Plans: Major amendments to stormwater drainage and
detention or erosion and sediment control plans shall be submitted to the
village and shall be processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner
as the original plans. Field modification of a minor nature may be authorized
by the building and zoning administrator by written authorization to the
permittee. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
9-10-14: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   Authority: In the event any person holding a building permit
pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the permit, or carries on site
development in such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health,
welfare, environment, or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the development site or so as to be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the
neighborhood, the building and zoning administrator may suspend or revoke the
building permit.
      2.   Suspension By Stop Work Order: Suspension of a permit shall be by a
written stop work order issued by the building and zoning administrator and
delivered to the permittee or his agent or the person performing the work. The
stop work order shall be effective immediately, shall state the specific
violations cited, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed. A stop work order shall remain in effect until the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the village board, at which the time, the conditions can
be met.
      3.   Hearing On Revocation:
         a.   No building permit shall be revoked until a hearing is held by
the village. Written notice of such hearing shall be served on the permittee,
either personally or by registered mail, and shall state:
            (1)   The grounds for complaint or reasons for suspension or
revocation, in clear and concise language; and
            (2)   The time when and place where such hearing will be held.
         b.   Such notice shall be served on the permittee at least five (5)
days prior to the date set for the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee
shall be given an opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and present
evidence on his behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the village board
shall determine whether the permit shall be revoked. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
   B.   Violation; Penalties: No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair
or maintain any grading, excavating or fill, or cause the same to be done,
contrary to or in violation of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and each day during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is committed, continued, or permitted shall constitute a separate
offense. Upon conviction of any such violation, such person, partnership, or
corporation shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. In addition to any other penalty
authorized by this subsection, any person, partnership, or corporation
convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be required
to restore the site to the condition existing prior to commission of the
violation, or to bear the expense of such. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010; amd. 2012
Code)
9-10-15: INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC:
Documents relating to the adherence to this chapter are available for review by
request at the village hall. (Ord. 904, 10-18-2010)
CHAPTER 11
INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
SECTION:
9-11-1: Incorporation Of Codes By Reference
9-11-1: INCORPORATION OF CODES BY REFERENCE:
As authorized by Illinois law (65 ILCS 5/1-3-2), the Village Code for the
Village of Roxana, Illinois shall consist of the following which are
incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as though fully set out
herein, and are hereby adopted:
   A.   The “2012 International Building Code,” as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the “Building Code of
the Village of Roxana, Illinois” (the “Building Code”).
   B.    The “Illinois Plumbing Code, as published in 77 IL Admin. Code 890, is
hereby adopted as the “Plumbing Code of the Village of Roxana, Illinois” (the
“Plumbing Code”).
   C.   The “2017 National Electrical Code,” as published by the National Fire
Protection Association, is hereby adopted as the “Electrical Code of the
Village of Roxana, Illinois” (the “Electrical Code”).
   D.   The “2012 International Mechanical Code,” as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the “Mechanical Code of the
Village of Roxana, Illinois” (the “Mechanical Code”).
   E.   The “2014 ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1,” as published by the U.S.
Department of Energy, is hereby adopted as the “Energy Code of the Village of
Roxana, Illinois” (the “Energy Code”).
   F.   The “2003 ICC/ANSI A117.1 Accessibility Code,” as published by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the “Accessibility Code of the
Village of Roxana, Illinois” (the “Accessibility Code”).
   G.   The “Illinois Accessibility Code,” as published in Title 71, Part 400
of the Illinois Register, is hereby adopted as the “Illinois Accessibility Code
of the Village of Roxana, Illinois (the “Illinois Accessibility Code”).
   H.   The “2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design Code,” as published by
the U.S. Department of Justice, is hereby adopted as the “Standards for
Accessible Design Code of the Village of Roxana, Illinois” (the “Standards for
Accessible Design Code”).
   I.   The “NFPA 101 Life Safety Code,” as published by the National Fire
Protection Association, is hereby adopted as the “Life Safety Code of the
Village of Roxana, Illinois” (the “Life Safety Code”).
   J.   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to maintain on file
in at least one department of the City, three (3) copies each of the Village
Codes listed in Subsections (A) through (I), above, as herein adopted
(collectively, the “Village Codes”). (Ord. 1046, 6-17-2019)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE; JURISDICTION; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Purpose
10-1-2: Jurisdiction
10-1-3: Interpretation; Conflicting Provisions
10-1-4: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-1-1: PURPOSE:
In accordance with state law 1
, this title regulates structures and land uses in order to preserve, protect
and promote the public health, safety, and welfare through implementation of
the village comprehensive community plan. More specifically, this title is
intended to assist in achieving the following objectives:
   A.   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate sites
in order to maximize communitywide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents, and to discourage
development on inappropriate sites;
   B.   To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound existing
residential, commercial, and industrial areas, and to gradually eliminate
nonconforming uses and structures;
   C.   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout the
village;
   D.   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air, and privacy for the
occupants of all buildings;
   E.   To protect property from damage caused by fire, flooding, poorly
controlled stormwater runoff, and adverse soil and topographical conditions;
   F.   To provide adequate and well designed parking and loading space for all
buildings and uses, and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public streets
and highways;
   G.   To guide the provisions of water mains, sanitary sewers, stormwater
sewers, and other utilities and services, and to reduce the initial costs and
future maintenance expenses thereof;
   H.   To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement of all
the regulations set forth in this title; and
   I.   To clearly and concisely explain the procedures for obtaining
variances, special use permits, amendments, and the like. (1981 Code §
17.04.010)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
10-1-2: JURISDICTION:
This title shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the village and
within all unincorporated territory located within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of said limits. (1981 Code § 17.04.020; amd. 2012 Code)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Every provision of this title shall be construed liberally in favor of the
village, and every requirement imposed under this title shall be deemed
minimal. Whenever the requirements of this title differ from the requirements
of any other lawfully adopted ordinance, regulation, deed restriction, or
covenant, the more stringent requirements shall prevail. (1981 Code §
17.04.030)
10-1-4: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent, or employee of the village shall render himself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under
this title.
   B.   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent, or employee
of the village, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge
of his duties under this title, shall be defended by the village attorney until
the final determination of the legal proceedings. (1981 Code § 17.04.040)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
In construing the intended meanings of terminology used in this title, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them
in section
10-2-2 of this chapter unless the context clearly indicates otherwise; terms
not defined in said section shall have their standard English dictionary
meanings.
   B.   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   C.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   D.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   E.   The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is discretionary.
   F.   The term "the village" shall mean the village of Roxana, Illinois.
   G.   The words "lot", "parcel", "tract" and "site" shall be synonymous. (See
section
10-2-2 of this chapter, definition of "plot".)
   H.   The words "extend", "enlarge", and "expand" shall be synonymous. (See
section
10-2-2 of this chapter, definition of "enlarge".)
   I.   The words "abutting", "adjacent", and "contiguous" shall be synonymous.
(See section
10-2-2 of this chapter, definition of "abutting".)
   J.   All distances shall be measured to the nearest, integral foot; six
inches (6") or more shall be deemed one foot (1').
   K.   References to sections shall be deemed to include all subsections
within that section, but a reference to a particular subsection designates only
that subsection.
   L.   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(1981 Code § 17.08.005)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABUTTING: Having a common lot line or district line.
ACCESSWAY: A curb cut, ramp, driveway or other means for providing vehicular
access to an off street parking or loading area.
ADMINISTRATOR: The official appointed by the president of the village, with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees, to administer this title, or his
representative. (Synonymous with "building and zoning administrator".)
AGRICULTURE: Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of farm
or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, or animal/poultry husbandry. The term "agriculture" encompasses
the farmhouse and accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to
agricultural activities.
AISLE: A vehicular trafficway within an off street parking area used as a means
of access/egress from parking spaces.
ALLEY: A public accessway which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
ALTER: To change the size, shape, or use of a structure.
AMENDMENT: A change in the provisions of this title (including those portions
incorporated by reference), properly effected in accordance with state law and
the procedures set forth in this title.
ANCHOR: Any approved device to which a mobile home is tied down to keep it
firmly attached to the stand on which it is placed.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation, or treatment of domestic animals.
APARTMENT: A suite of rooms or a room in a building arranged and intended for a
place of residence of a single family or a group of individuals living together
as a single housekeeping unit.
APARTMENT HOTEL: An apartment house which furnishes, for the use of its
tenants, services ordinarily furnished by hotels, but the privileges of which
are not primarily available to the public.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A multi-family dwelling used or occupied by four (4) or more
families living independently of each other in dwelling units, such dwelling
units normally being rented or used other than by the day, by the same occupant
for a continuous period ordinarily of six (6) months or more.
AREA OF ZONING LOT: The total area within the property lines of a lot,
excluding public streets and alleys, meeting the district requirement of this
title.
ASPHALTIC CONCRETE: A mixture of petroleum byproducts and gravel used for
paving to form a smooth, permanent surface. "Asphaltic concrete" does not mean
"oil and chip".
ATTACHED: As applied to buildings, means having a common wall and/or a common
roof.
AUDITORIUM: A room, hall or building made a part of a church, theater, school,
recreation building, or other building assigned to the gathering of people as
an audience, to hear lectures, plays and other presentations.
AUTOMOBILE AND MOBILE HOME SALES AREA: An open area, other than a street, used
for the display or sale of new or used automobiles or mobile homes, and where
no repair work is done except for minor incidental repair, or automobiles or
mobile homes to be displayed and sold on the premises.
AUTOMOBILE PARKING AREA: A lot or part thereof used for the storage or parking
of motor vehicles with or without the payment of rent or charges.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles, not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for the
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles, or parts thereof, and including any
used farm vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and
not being restored to operating condition, and including the commercial
salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
BASEMENT: A story having one-half (1/2) or more of its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.
BILLBOARD: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or
entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than upon the premises
where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
BLOCK: An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers, or ways
(except alleys, pedestrianways, or exterior boundaries of a subdivision unless
the exterior boundary is a street, highway or way), or bounded by a combination
of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, waterways, or
corporate boundary lines.
BOARD OF APPEALS: The zoning board of appeals of the village.
BOARDING HOUSE: A residential building or portion thereof, other than a motel
or hotel, containing lodging rooms for accommodation of three (3) to ten (10)
persons who are not members of the keeper's family, and where lodging or meals,
or both, are provided by prearrangement and for definite periods, but not on an
overnight or per meal basis, to the transient public.
BUFFER STRIP: An area of land, undeveloped except for landscaping, fences,
etc., used to protect a use situated on one lot from the deleterious effects of
the use on the adjacent lot.
BUILDING: Any covered structure permanently affixed to land and designed or
used to shelter persons or chattels.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average grade at the
front wall of a building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or
to the deck line of mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and
ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs. Chimneys, towers, cooling towers, and
similar projections (other than signs) shall not be included in calculating
building height.
BUILDING LINE: The line nearest the front of and across a lot, delineating the
minimum open space required between the front of a structure and the street
right of way.
BULK: Any one or any combination of the following structural or site design
characteristics:
   A.   Size or height of a structure.
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or other structures.
   C.   Lot area.
   D.   Yards or setbacks.
CENTERLINE: A. The centerline of any right of way having a uniform width.
   B.   The original centerline where a right of way has been widened
irregularly.
   C.   The new centerline whenever a road has been relocated.
CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, FINAL: "Final certificate of zoning
compliance" means a permit issued by the administrator indicating that a newly
completed structure complies with all pertinent requirements of this title and
may, therefore, be occupied or used.
CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, INITIAL: "Initial certificate of zoning
compliance" means a permit issued by the administrator indicating that proposed
construction work is in conformity with the requirements of this title and may,
therefore, proceed.
CLINIC: An establishment wherein licensed physicians or dentists practice
medicine or dentistry, but where overnight lodging for sick or injured persons
is not provided.
CLUB OR LODGE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
organized for some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
COMMERCIAL USE OR ESTABLISHMENT: Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY PLAN: The plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by the
village to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of the
community. The comprehensive community plan includes, but is not limited to,
plans and programs regarding the location, character, and extent of highways;
bridges; public buildings or uses; utilities, schools, or residential,
commercial or industrial land uses; parks; drainage facilities; etc.
CONFORMING: In compliance with the applicable provisions of this title.
CONVENIENCE SHOP: Any small retail commercial or service establishment offering
goods/services primarily to the residents of a particular multiple-family
complex, mobile home park, or similar development.
CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER: A legally binding order issued by the administrator in
accordance with the procedures set forth herein to effect compliance with this
title.
DAYCARE CENTER: See definition of Nursery School.
DETACHED: As applied to buildings, means surrounded by yards on the same lot as
the building.
DEVELOP: To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
DIMENSIONS: Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
DISTRICT, ZONING: "Zoning district" means a portion of the territory of the
village wherein certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof
apply to structures, lots, and uses under the terms of this title.
DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT: An establishment principally used for the sale of fast
order food. "Fast order food" means food that is:
   A.   Primarily intended for immediate consumption;
   B.   Available after a short waiting time; and
   C.   Packaged or presented in such a manner that it can be readily eaten
outside the premises where it is sold.
DRIVE-IN THEATER: A tract of land developed with facilities for projecting
motion pictures on an outdoor screen for viewing from patron automobiles parked
on the premises.
DRIVEWAY: A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or off
street parking area.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as living
quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels, or other
accommodations for the transient public.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: "Multiple-family dwelling" means a building or
portion thereof containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: "Single-family dwelling" means a detached dwelling
containing one dwelling unit and intended for the occupancy of one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: "Two-family dwelling" means a dwelling containing two (2)
dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by one
family. A "dwelling unit" always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
EASEMENT: A right to use another person's real property for certain limited
purposes.
ENCLOSED: As applied to a building, means covered by a permanent roof and
separated on all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed
exterior walls or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
ENLARGE: To increase the size (floor area, height, etc.) of an existing
principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an existing
use.
ERECT: To build, construct.
ESTABLISHMENT: Either of the following:
   A.   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that is
the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
   B.   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building such that:
      1.   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
      2.   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of the
building or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway that
has direct access to the exterior of the building.
EXISTING: Actually constructed or in operation on the effective date hereof.
FAMILY: One person, or two (2) or more persons, living together, who may or may
not be related by blood, marriage, or legal adoption, or not more than three
(3) unrelated persons, maintaining a common household in a dwelling unit.
FLOOD ELEVATION, REGULATORY: "Regulatory flood elevation" means the elevation
of the most severe flood that, on the basis of data of the corps of engineers,
may be expected to occur once every one hundred (100) years.
FLOODPLAIN AREA: The area adjacent to a watercourse and its tributaries having
an elevation equal to or lower than the regulatory flood elevation. Tracts of
land less than ten (10) acres in area that, naturally or by landfill, have an
elevation higher than the regulatory flood elevation shall be included in the
floodplain area if they are surrounded by land in the floodplain area.
FLOOR AREA: The area included within the outside walls of a building or portion
thereof, including habitable penthouses and attic space, but not including vent
shafts, courts or uninhabitable areas below ground level or in attics.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The ratio of total floor area, in square feet, of all
buildings on a lot to total lot area, in square feet.
FRONTAGE: The linear extent of the front (street side) of a lot.
GARAGE PARKING, PUBLIC: "Public garage parking" means a building or portion
thereof used by the public for the storage or parking of motor vehicles for
compensation.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: "Private garage" means a building or portion thereof for the
storage of one or more vehicles for persons living on the premises.
GREENHOUSE: See definition of Nursery.
HOME OCCUPATION: A use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by
the inhabitants thereof and no others, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the residential character thereof.
IMMOBILIZE: As applied to a mobile home, means to remove the wheels, tongue,
and hitch.
INTENSIFY: To increase the level or degree of.
INTERSECTION: The point at which two (2) or more public rights of way
(generally streets) meet.
JUNKYARD: A tract of land, including any accessory structures thereon, that is
used for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing, disassembling,
or handling waste or scrap materials. Such scrap materials include vehicles,
machinery, and equipment not in operable condition (or parts thereof), and
metals, glass, paper, plastics, rags, and rubber tires. A lot on which three
(3) or more inoperable vehicles are stored shall be deemed a junkyard. A
"junkyard" includes an automobile wrecking yard.
KENNEL: Any structure or premises, or portion thereof, on which more than four
(4) dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals over four (4) months of age
are kept.
LAUNDRIES:
Commercial Industrial Laundry: A business that provides washing, drying and
ironing services operated by the employees on the premises.
Laundromat: A business that provides home type washing, drying and ironing
machines for hire to be used by the customers on the premises.
LEAST RESTRICTIVE: The designation of the most or the least restrictive
district shall be of the following order, with the least restrictive district
being first in order: I-1, B-3, B-2, B-1, MR-2, MR-1, TR-1, and SR-1.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space used for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
LOT: A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate or
future) of transfer of ownership or development. A "lot" may or may not
coincide with a "lot of record".
LOT, CORNER: "Corner lot" means a lot having at least two (2) adjacent sides
that abut for their full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
LOT COVERAGE: The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or structures,
including accessory buildings or structures.
LOT DEPTH: The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: "Front lot line" means the lot boundary abutting the street.
LOT LINE, REAR: "Rear lot line" means an interior lot line which is most
distant from and most nearly parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: "Side lot line" means any boundary of a lot which is not a
front lot line or a rear lot line.
LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS: Refers to the lot area, width, and depth requirements of
the applicable district.
LOT, THROUGH: "Through lot" means a lot having a pair of approximately parallel
lot lines that abut two (2) approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines
shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal width of a lot measured at right angles to the
side lot lines.
MAINTENANCE: The routine upkeep of a structure, premises, or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep such structure in sound condition.
MOBILE HOME:
   A.   An automobile, trailer, trailer coach, house trailer, trailer, vehicle,
or structure:
      1.   Designed and constructed in such manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons, or the conduct of any
business or profession (including use as a selling or advertising device); and
      2.   So designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a
conveyance on highways or streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other
motive power, except a device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   B.   Mobile homes shall include single-family dwellings designed for
conveyance after fabrication on streets or highways mounted on their own wheels
or otherwise.
MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT: "Dependent mobile home" means a mobile home or travel
trailer which does not have a flush toilet or a bathtub or shower.
MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT: "Independent mobile home" means a mobile home or
travel trailer that has a flush toilet and a bathtub or shower.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel not less than five (5) acres in area, in single
ownership/control, developed with facilities for accommodating occupied mobile
homes in accordance with the requirements of the mobile home park ordinance.
MOBILE HOME STAND: The part of a mobile home space beneath the mobile home that
includes the concrete slab or runners on which the home is placed.
MOTEL OR MOTOR HOTEL: A series of attached, semiattached or detached sleeping
or living units for the accommodation of transient guests and not customarily
including individual cooking or kitchen facilities; the units having convenient
access to off street parking spaces for the exclusive use of the guests or
occupants.
NOISOME AND INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES, CONDITIONS AND OPERATIONS:
   A.   Creation of unreasonable physical hazard by fire, explosion, radiation
or other cause to persons or property.
   B.   Discharge of any liquid or solid waste into any stream or body of water
or into any public or private disposal system or into the ground so as to
contaminate any water supply, including underground water supply.
   C.   Maintenance or storage of any material either indoors or outdoors so as
to cause or to facilitate the breeding of vermin.
   D.   Emission of smoke, measured at the point of emission, which constitutes
an unreasonable hazard to the health, safety or welfare of any persons.
   E.   Fly ash or dust which can cause damage to the health of persons,
animals, or plant life or to other forms of property, or excessive soil,
measured at or beyond the property line of the premises on which the fly ash or
dust is created or caused.
   F.   Creation or causation of any unreasonably offensive odors discernible
at or beyond any property line of the premises on which the odor is created or
caused.
   G.   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonable reflection or direct glare
by any process, lighting or reflection material at or beyond any property line
of the premises on which the reflection or direct glare is created or caused.
   H.   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonably distracting or
objectionable vibration and/or electrical disturbances discernible at or beyond
any property line of the premises on which the vibration or electrical
disturbance is created or maintained.
   I.   Any public nuisance.
NUISANCE: Any thing, condition, or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life.
NURSERY: A tract of land on which trees, shrubs, and other plants are raised
for transplanting and sale, including any structure in which said activities
are conducted.
NURSERY SCHOOL: An establishment for the part time care and/or instruction at
any time of day of four (4) or more unrelated children of preelementary school
age.
NURSING HOME: A building used as a medical care facility for persons who need
long term nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive
hospital care.
OFFICE: Any building, or portion thereof, in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A zoning district superimposed over one or more standard
(primary) zoning districts, or portions thereof, for the purpose of controlling
developmental problems caused by such factors as steep slopes, wet soils, etc.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: "Off street parking space" means an area at least
twenty feet (20') long and ten feet (10') wide within an off street parking
area or garage, used for the storage of one passenger motor vehicle.
PERMITTED USE: Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a particular
district(s), provided it conforms with all the requirements applicable to said
district(s).
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, organization, or corporate body.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land which is planned as a whole for
development under a single ownership or control, and which, by virtue of such
unified planning and development, provides greater amenities, convenience or
other benefits (especially open space) than would normally be had through the
development of diverse smaller tracts under multiple ownership. A "planned unit
development" may contain one type of use or a variety of uses.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the village.
PLOT: A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof which
is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
PREMISES: A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE: The main structure erected on or the main
use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate) structure
or use.
PROPERTY LINE: See definitions of Lot Line, Front; Lot Line, Rear; and Lot
Line, Side.
RECONSTRUCT: As applied to nonconforming structures, means to rebuild after
partial or total destruction.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any type of vehicle used primarily for pleasure such as
travel trailers, motor homes, boats, snowmobiles, etc.
REFUSE: Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial wastes.
RELOCATE: To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
REPAIR: To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
RESTRICTIVE: Tending to keep within prescribed limits.
RETAIL: Refers to the sale of goods or services directly to the consumer rather
than to another business.
RIGHT OF WAY, PUBLIC: A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has dedicated
to the village or to another unit of government for streets and alleys.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House.
SANATORIUM: Hospital.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A tract of open land used for the permanent disposal of
refuse in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois environmental
protection agency. At a "sanitary landfill", the refuse is periodically covered
with topsoil.
SCREENING: Trees, shrubs, walls, solid fences, etc., used as a means of visual
and noise control.
SERVICE STATION: A building and premises, or portion thereof, designed and used
for the retail sale of gasoline or other automotive fuel, oil, and parts,
supplies, and accessories. A service station may include facilities for washing
vehicles and for making minor automotive repairs.
SERVICE USE/ESTABLISHMENT: Any use or establishment wherein services are
provided for remuneration either to individuals or to other firms.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a street line and: a) the
nearest wall of a building or side of a structure facing such street line; or
b) the edge of the area of operation of a principal use involving no building
or structure.
SETBACK LINE: See definition of Building Line.
SIGN: Any inscription written, printed, painted, or otherwise placed on a
board, plate, or banner, or upon any material, object or device whatsoever,
which, by reason of its form, color, wording or otherwise, attracts or is
designed to attract attention to the subject thereof or is used as a means of
identification, advertisement, or announcement. The term shall apply only to
signs which attract attention to the sign from outside of a building or
structure.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: "Advertising sign" means a sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered
elsewhere than on the lot where the sign is located, or only incidentally on
that lot if at all.
SIGN AREA: The total surface area of the entire sign, including all parts and
appurtenances thereof (except principal supports, the total cross sectional
area of which does not exceed one square foot and on which there is no display
of advertising material or any lighting). In the case of any sign having
display surfaces which are not continuous (e.g., separated letter displays or
separated display surfaces), sign area shall include a theoretical display
surface equal to the area of the smallest enclosure into which the combined
noncontinuous display surfaces can be fitted, and including intermediate
structural supports.
SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD: "Bulletin board sign" means a sign used for purposes of
notification of the public of an event or other occurrence of public interest,
such as a church service, political rally, civic meeting or similar event.
SIGN, BUSINESS: "Business sign" means a sign which directs attention to a
business, profession, display or entertainment conducted upon a lot or to a
commodity or service stored, sold, or displayed on a lot.
SIGN, COMBINATION: "Combination sign" means any sign incorporating any
combination of the features of freestanding, projecting and roof signs.
SIGN, CONSTRUCTION: "Construction sign" means a sign advertising the
development or improvement of a property by a builder, contractor or other
person furnishing services, materials, or labor to said premises, which sign is
intended for a limited period of display, and erected on the same lot with the
work being done.
SIGN, IDENTIFICATION: "Identification sign" means a sign which establishes the
identity of a person and his business or professional title occupying the
premises, such as a nameplate. The term "identification sign" shall not be
construed to include a sign identifying a commercial or industrial use or a
commodity or service offered on the premises.
SIGN, MARQUEE: "Marquee sign" means a display sign which is attached to or
suspended from a marquee, canopy, or other covered structure projecting from
and supported by the building and extending beyond the building wall or
building line.
SIGN, PROJECTING: "Projecting sign" means a display sign which is attached
directly to the wall of a building and which extends more than fifteen inches
(15") from the face of the wall.
SIGN, REAL ESTATE: "Real estate sign" means a sign indicating the availability
for sale, rent or lease of the specific lot and/or building upon which the sign
is erected or displayed.
SIGN, ROOF: "Roof sign" means a sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet
wall of a building or structure.
SIGN, SUBDIVISION: "Subdivision sign" means a sign advertising the general
sale, development or subdivision of land and displayed or erected upon the
subject property, as distinguished from a real estate sign.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: "Temporary sign" means a sign, banner or other advertising
device or display constructed of cloth, canvas, cardboard, wallboard or other
light temporary material, with or without a structural frame, intended for a
temporary period of display, such as decorative displays for holidays or public
demonstrations.
SIGN, WALL: "Wall sign" means any sign painted on, attached to, or erected
against the wall of a building or structure, with the exposed face of the sign
in a plane parallel to the plane of said wall and extending not more than
fifteen inches (15") from the face of the wall.
SKIRTING: The covering affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a mobile
home to conceal the underside thereof.
SPECIAL USE: A use that has unusual operational, physical, or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. Special uses commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district and are allowed only by permit.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this
title to regulate development of a special use.
STABLE: A structure situated on the same lot as a dwelling and designed or used
for housing horses for the private use of occupants of the dwelling, but not
for hire.
STOP ORDER: A type of corrective action order used by the administrator to halt
work in progress that is in violation of this title.
STREET: A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term "street"
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designation, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
STREET, PRIVATE: "Private street" means any street providing access to abutting
property that is not maintained by and dedicated to the village or other public
entity.
STRINGENT: Binding, exacting.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are structures,
but not all structures are buildings.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: "Temporary structure" means any structure that is not
attached to a permanent foundation.
TEMPORARY USE PERMIT: A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this
title and valid for not more than one year, which allows the occupation of a
temporary structure or the operation of a temporary enterprise.
TOPOGRAPHY: The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A mobile structure designed for temporary occupancy.
USE: The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is designed,
arranged, intended, occupied, or maintained.
USE VARIANCE: A type of amendment (not variance) that allows a use in a
district where said use would not be allowed under existing provisions of this
title.
UTILITY SUBSTATION: A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant, etc.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of the strict application of the lot size, setbacks, or
other bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure.
WHOLESALE: Refers to the sale of goods or services by one business to another
business.
YARD: Open space that is unobstructed except as specifically permitted in this
title and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
YARD LINE: A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the
yard in question extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any point
than the required depth or width of such yard.
YARD, REAR: "Rear yard" means a yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear
lot lines, and the rear yard line.
YARD, SIDE: "Side yard" means a yard which is bounded by the rear yard line,
front yard line, side yard line, and side lot line.
ZONING MAP: The map(s), and any amendment thereto, designating zoning districts
and incorporated into this title by reference. (1981 Code §§
17.08.010–17.08.830; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Building And Zoning Administrator
10-3-1-1: Zoning Hearing Officer
10-3-2: Certificates Of Zoning Compliance
10-3-3: Variances
10-3-4: Amendments
10-3-5: Corrective Action Orders
10-3-6: Appeals
10-3-7: Fees
10-3-8: Violations
10-3-1: BUILDING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Office Established: The Office of Building and Zoning Administrator of
the Village is established. The Building and Zoning Administrator shall be the
executive head of the office. With the consent of the Board of Trustees, the
Administrator may appoint such other employees as he deems necessary to carry
out the duties of his office. (1981 Code § 17.56.010)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The Building and Zoning Administrator is authorized
and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of this title. This broad
responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the following specific
duties:
      1.   To review and pass upon applications for initial and final
certificates of zoning compliance;
      2.   To inspect land, structures, and uses to determine compliance with
this title, and where there are violations, to initiate appropriate corrective
action;
      3.   To review and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all
applications for variances and appeals;
      4.   To review and forward to the Village Planning Commission all
applications for special use permits, temporary use permits, and amendments;
      5.   To maintain up to date records of this title including, but not
limited to, district maps, certificates of zoning compliance, special use
permits, temporary use permits, variances, interpretative decisions of the
Board of Appeals, amendments, and all applications related to any of these
matters;
      6.   To periodically review the provisions of this title to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the Planning Commission at least once yearly;
      7.   To annually publish copies of this title (including the district
map), and any amendments thereto;
      8.   To provide information to the general public on matters related to
this title; and
      9.   To perform such other duties as the Board of Trustees may from time
to time prescribe. (1981 Code § 17.56.020)
10-3-1-1: ZONING HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   Establishment And Appointment: The position of Zoning Hearing Officer
is hereby established. The Zoning Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees from
individuals who have, at a minimum, a law degree from a nationally accredited
law school and admittance to practice law in the State of Illinois.
   B.   Duties: The Zoning Hearing Officer shall preside over and shall have
the following duties and primary jurisdiction over all the following matters,
unless otherwise specifically directed in writing by the Village President:
      1.   Conducting all public hearings required to be held under 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-13, including specifically in connection with
applications for any special use, variation, amendment or other change or
modification in any ordinance of the Municipality adopted pursuant to division
13 of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11;
      2.   Hearing and deciding all appeals from any review of any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official
charged with the enforcement of any ordinance adopted pursuant to division 13
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11;
      3.   Creating all administrative and procedural rules and procedures
necessary to ensure the orderly and efficient operation of the Village's public
hearings, including but not limited to: establishing the time, manner, and
frequency for conducting the above referenced public hearings; generating or
directing to the Village Clerk's Office the generation of the docket and all
materials necessary to conduct the above referenced public hearings; referring
matters back to the Zoning Administrator for further review; and all other
matters and powers necessary and incidental to the position of Zoning Hearing
Officer.
   C.   Pay And Term: The Zoning Hearing Officer shall be paid for his services
the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per zoning docket, and shall be
appointed for a maximum term of four (4) years. (Ord. 1030, 8-6-2018)
10-3-2: CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Initial Certificate:
      1.   Required: Upon the effective date hereof, no land shall be
developed, no new use or structure shall be established or erected, and no
existing use or structure shall be enlarged, extended, altered, relocated, or
reconstructed until an initial certificate of zoning compliance has been
issued. The Administrator shall not issue an initial certificate of zoning
compliance unless, following consultation with technically qualified persons as
necessary, he determines that the proposed work conforms to the applicable
provisions of this title. (1981 Code § 17.60.010)
      2.   Application For Certificate: Every applicant for an initial
certificate of zoning compliance shall submit to the Administrator, in graphic
and/or narrative form, all the items of information listed below that are
applicable to the particular project. The Administrator shall decide which
items are applicable. The application shall show the following information:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant;
         b.   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed
structure or use, if different from subsection A2a of this section;
         c.   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees, and similar matters;
         d.   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship
to existing adjacent uses or structures;
         e.   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or
use;
         f.   Existing topography of the site (USGS 10 foot contour data is
acceptable), and proposed finished grade;
         g.   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping, and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
         h.   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
         i.   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
         j.   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and
accessways;
         k.   Identification and location of all existing or proposed
utilities, whether public or private; and/or
         l.   Any other pertinent information that the administrator may
require. (1981 Code § 17.60.020)
      3.   Duration Of Certificate; Renewals: Initial certificates of zoning
compliance shall be valid for one year, or until revoked for failure to abide
by a corrective action order. The administrator may renew initial certificates
of zoning compliance for successive one year periods upon written request,
provided the applicant is making a good faith effort to complete the authorized
work. (1981 Code § 17.60.030)
      4.   Prerequisite To Issuance Of Building Permit: No building permit
shall be issued by any representative of the village unless the applicant for
such permit presents sufficient proof that the applicant is entitled to an
initial certificate of zoning compliance. (Ord. 571, 4-2-1990)
   B.   Final Certificate: No lot or part thereof recorded or developed after
the effective date hereof, and no structure or use or part thereof that has
been erected, enlarged, altered, relocated, or reconstructed after the
effective date hereof shall be used, occupied, or put into operation until a
final certificate of zoning compliance has been issued. The administrator shall
not issue a final certificate of zoning compliance until he has determined by
inspection that the work authorized by the initial certificate of zoning
compliance has been completed in accordance with approved plans. Failure to
obtain a final certificate of zoning compliance shall constitute a separate
violation of this title. (1981 Code § 17.60.050)
10-3-3: VARIANCES:
   A.   Definition; Explanation: A "variance" is a relaxation of the
requirements of this title that are applicable to a particular lot or
structure. A so called "use variance" (which would allow a use that is neither
permitted nor special in the district in question) is not a variance; it is an
amendment, and may be granted only as provided in section
10-3-4 of this chapter. (1981 Code § 17.88.010; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Application For Variance: Every application for a variance shall be
filed with the administrator on a prescribed form. (Every variance application
shall also be filed with the soil and water conservation district as per state
law.) The administrator shall promptly transmit said application, together with
any advice he might wish to offer, to the board of appeals. The application
shall contain sufficient information to allow the board to make an informed
decision, and shall include, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant; (1981 Code § 17.88.020)
      2.   Location of the structure or lot for which the variance is sought;
      3.   Relationship of the structure or lot to existing structures or uses
on adjacent lots; (1981 Code § 17.88.020; amd. 2012 Code)
      4.   Specific section(s) of this title containing the regulations which,
if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem; and
      5.   Any other pertinent information that the administrator may require.
(1981 Code § 17.88.020)
   C.   Public Hearing: The board of appeals shall hold a public hearing on
each variance request within a reasonable time after the variance application
is submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and
testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice
indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the nature of the
proposed variance shall be given not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days before the hearing:
      1.   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property would be directly affected by the proposed variance; and
      2.   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village. (1981 Code § 17.88.030)
   D.   Standards For Variances: The board of appeals shall not grant any
variance unless, based upon the evidence presented to them, they determine
that:
      1.   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this title; and
      2.   Strict application of the district requirements would result in
great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant and prevent a
reasonable return on the property; and
      3.   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from such
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship, and allow a
reasonable return on the property; and
      4.   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his own making; and
      5.   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other property within the district, and therefore, a variance
would be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment (rezoning); and
      6.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the area where the premises in question is located nor materially frustrate
implementation of the village comprehensive community plan. (1981 Code §
17.88.040)
   E.   Time For Decisions; Findings Of Fact: The board of appeals shall render
a decision on every variance request within a reasonable time after the public
hearing. In accordance with state law, the board of appeals shall specify the
terms of relief granted (if any) in one statement and their findings of fact in
another statement. The findings of fact shall clearly indicate the board's
reasons for granting or denying any requested variance. (1981 Code § 17.88.050)
10-3-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   The board of trustees may amend this title in accordance with state
law 1
and the provisions of this section. Proposed alterations of district boundaries
or proposed changes in the status of uses (permitted, special, prohibited)
shall be deemed proposed amendments. Amendments may be proposed by the board of
trustees, the administrator, the board of appeals, the planning commission, or
any party in interest. (1981 Code § 17.76.010)
      2.   The zoning board of appeals is authorized and directed to exercise
the same powers, duties and responsibilities which this section grants to the
planning commission. In the event the zoning board of appeals is acting
pursuant to this section, the references to the powers, duties and
responsibilities of the planning commission shall be applicable to the zoning
board of appeals. (Ord. 571, 4-2-1990)
   B.   Filing And Method Of Filing: Every proposal to amend this title shall
be filed with the administrator on a prescribed form. (Every amendment proposal
shall also be filed with the soil and water conservation district as per 70
ILCS 405/22.02a.) The administrator shall promptly transmit the proposal,
together with any comments or recommendations he may wish to make, to the
planning commission for a public hearing. (1981 Code § 17.76.020; amd. 2012
Code)
   C.   Public Hearing: The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on
every amendment proposal within a reasonable time after the proposal has been
submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the
time, date, and place of the hearing, and the nature of the proposed amendment
shall be given not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before
the hearing:
      1.   By first class mail to all parties whose property would be directly
affected by the proposed amendment; and
      2.   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village. (1981 Code § 17.76.030)
   D.   Advisory Report; Findings Of Fact: Within a reasonable time after the
public hearing, the planning commission shall submit their advisory report to
the board of trustees. The report shall state the planning commission's
recommendations regarding adoption of the proposed amendment, and the reasons
therefor. If the effect of the proposed amendment would be to alter district
boundaries or to change the status of any use, the planning commission shall
include in their advisory report findings of fact concerning each of the
following matters:
      1.   Existing use(s) and zoning of the property in question;
      2.   Existing use(s) and zoning of other lots in the vicinity of the
property in question;
      3.   Suitability of the property in question for uses already permitted
under existing regulations;
      4.   Suitability of the property in question for the proposed use;
      5.   The trend of development in the vicinity of the property in
question, including changes (if any) which may have occurred since the property
was initially zoned or last rezoned; and
      6.   The effect the proposed rezoning would have on implementation of the
village comprehensive community plan. (1981 Code § 17.76.040)
   E.   Action By Board Of Trustees; Protests:
      1.   The board of trustees shall act on every proposed amendment at their
next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the planning
commission's advisory report. Without further public hearing, the board of
trustees may pass any proposed amendment or may refer it back to the planning
commission for further consideration by simple majority vote of all members
then holding office.
      2.   The favorable vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of all the members
of the board of trustees is required to pass an amendment to this title when
the proposed amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley
therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered. (1981 Code § 17.76.050)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14.
10-3-5: CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS:
   A.   Order Of Action: Whenever the building and zoning administrator finds,
by inspection or otherwise, that any lot, structure, or use, or work thereon,
is in violation of this title, he shall so notify the responsible party and
shall order appropriate corrective action. (1981 Code § 17.64.010)
   B.   Contents Of Order: The order to take corrective action shall be in
writing and shall include:
      1.   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
      2.   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
      3.   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
      4.   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
      5.   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference
with the administrator if he so desires;
      6.   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed, and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
      7.   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
the imposition of fines. (1981 Code § 17.64.020)
   C.   Service Of Order: A corrective action order shall be deemed properly
served upon the owner, occupant, or operator of the offending lot, structure,
or use if it is:
      1.   Served upon him personally;
      2.   Sent by registered mail to his last known address; or
      3.   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
(1981 Code § 17.64.030)
   D.   Stop Order: Whenever any work is being done in violation of an initial
certificate of zoning compliance, the administrator's corrective action order
may state that the violation must cease immediately. In such case, the
corrective action order is equivalent to a stop order. (1981 Code § 17.64.040)
10-3-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Right Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the
building and zoning administrator in any matter related to the interpretation
or enforcement of any provision of this title may appeal to the zoning board of
appeals. Every such appeal shall be made and treated in accordance with
Illinois law and the provisions of this section. (1981 Code § 17.84.010)
   B.   Filing Appeal; Transmission Of Records: Every appeal shall be made
within forty five (45) days of the matter complained of by filing with the
administrator and the board of appeals a written notice specifying the grounds
for appeal. (Every appeal shall also be filed with the soil and water
conservation district as per state law.) Not more than five (5) working days
after the notice of appeal has been filed, the administrator shall transmit to
the board of appeals all records pertinent to the case. (1981 Code § 17.84.020)
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all further action on the matter
being appealed unless the administrator certifies to the board, after the
notice of appeal has been filed with him, that, for reasons stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, further action shall not be stayed unless the board or the circuit court
grants a restraining order for due cause and so notifies the administrator.
(1981 Code § 17.84.030)
   D.   Public Hearing: The board of appeals shall hold a public hearing on
every appeal within a reasonable time after the filing of the appeal notice. At
the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or
by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the time, date, and
place of the hearing, and briefly describing the issue to be decided shall be
given not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing:
      1.   By first class mail to all parties directly affected by the appeal;
and
      2.   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village. (1981 Code § 17.84.040)
   E.   Decision By Board Of Appeals: The board of appeals shall render a
decision on the appeal within a reasonable time after the hearing. The board
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the decision or
order appealed to the extent and in the manner that they deem appropriate. In
so doing, the board of appeals has all the powers of the administrator. (1981
Code § 17.84.050)
10-3-7: FEES:
All fees indicated in table below shall be paid to the village clerk. Said fees
are intended to defray the administrative costs connected with the processing/
conducting of the listed permits/procedures. They do not constitute a tax or
other revenue raising device.
Permit/Procedure Fee
Permit/Procedure                         Fee
Initial certificate of zoning compliance None
Final certificate of zoning compliance   None
Special use permit                       $125.00
Temporary use permit                     125.00
Amendment                                125.00
Appeal                                   125.00
Variance                                 125.00
(1981 Code § 17.68.010; amd. Ord. 848, 4-16-2007)
10-3-8: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Complaints: Whenever any violation of this title occurs, or is alleged
to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by
the administrator. The administrator shall record such complaints, immediately
investigate, and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective action. (1981
Code § 17.92.010)
   B.   Emergency Measures: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title,
whenever the administrator determines that any violation of this title poses an
imminent peril to life or property, he may institute, without notice or
hearing, any necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition. (1981
Code § 17.92.020)
ARTICLE A. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Established
10-3A-2: Membership; Appointment; Compensation
10-3A-3: Terms Of Office; Removals And Vacancies
10-3A-4: Organization
10-3A-1: ESTABLISHED:
The zoning board of appeals of the village is established in accordance with
Illinois law. (1981 Code § 17.80.010)
10-3A-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
The board of appeals shall consist of seven (7) members, all of whom shall
reside within the village. Each board member shall be appointed by the
president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. One of the
members so appointed shall be named as chair at the time of his appointment.
Each board member shall receive for his services such compensation, if any, as
is determined from time to time by the board of trustees. (1981 Code §
17.80.020)
10-3A-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; REMOVALS AND VACANCIES:
   A.   Each board member shall hold office for five (5) years from the date of
his appointment, and until his successor has been selected and qualified;
provided, however, that the initial appointees to the board shall serve
respectively for the following terms: one for one year, one for two (2) years,
one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one
for six (6) years, and one for seven (7) years.
   B.   With the advice and consent of the board of trustees, the president may
remove any member of the board of appeals for cause, after a public hearing.
   C.   Vacancies on the board shall be filled for the unexpired term of the
member whose place has become vacant in the same manner as provided for the
appointment of new members. (1981 Code § 17.80.030)
10-3A-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: One of the members of the board of appeals shall be named
chair at the time of his or her appointment. The board may select such other
officers as they deem necessary. (1981 Code § 17.80.040; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Meetings:
      1.   All meetings of the board of appeals shall be held at the call of
the chair and at such times as the board may determine.
      2.   All board meetings shall be open to the public.
      3.   The board may adopt their own rules of meeting procedures consistent
with this title and the applicable Illinois statutes.
      4.   The chair, or in his absence the acting chair, may administer oaths
and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   C.   Quorum; Affirmative Vote: Four (4) members of the board shall
constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of at least four (4) members
shall be necessary to authorize any board action. (1981 Code § 17.80.040)
   D.   Minutes And Records: The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
and examinations. These minutes shall indicate the absence of any member, the
vote or abstention of each member on each question, and any official action
taken. A copy of every rule, variance, order, or decision of the board shall be
filed immediately in the board's office and shall be a public record. (1981
Code § 17.80.050)
ARTICLE B. USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Special Use Permits
10-3B-2: Temporary Use Permits
10-3B-1: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Introduction; Permit Required: This title divides the village into
various districts and permits in each district, as a matter of right, only
those uses which are clearly compatible with one another. Certain other uses,
because of their special operational or physical characteristics, may or may
not have a detrimental impact on nearby permitted uses, depending upon their
precise location, manner of operation, and other factors. Such "special uses"
require careful case by case review and may be allowed only by permission of
the board of trustees. (1981 Code § 17.72.010)
   B.   Application For Permit: Every applicant for a special use permit shall
submit to the administrator, in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of
information enumerated below. The administrator shall prepare an advisory
report on every request for a special use permit. He shall promptly transmit
the completed application and his advisory report to the planning commission.
The application shall show the following information: (1981 Code § 17.72.020)
      1.   Name and address of the applicant;
      2.   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed special
use, if different from subsection B1 of this section;
      3.   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees, and similar matters;
      4.   Location of the proposed special use, and its relationship to
existing adjacent uses;
      5.   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed special use;
      6.   Existing topography of its site (USGS 10 foot contour data is
acceptable), and proposed finished grade;
      7.   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping, and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
      8.   Height and setbacks of the proposed special use; (1981 Code §
17.72.020; amd. 2012 Code)
      9.   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
      10.   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and
accessways;
      11.   Identification and location of all existing or proposed utilities,
whether public or private; and/or
      12.   Any other pertinent information that the administrator may require.
(1981 Code § 17.72.020)
   C.   Public Hearing: The zoning board of appeals shall hold a public hearing
on every special use permit application within a reasonable time after the
application is submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may
appear and testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
Notice indicating the time, date, and place of the hearing, and the nature of
the proposed special use shall be given not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days before the hearing:
      1.   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property would be directly affected by the proposed special use; and
      2.   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village.
   D.   Advisory Report; Factors Considered: Within a reasonable time after the
public hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall submit their advisory report
to the board of trustees. In deciding what their advice should be, the zoning
board of appeals shall consider the following factors:
      1.   Whether the proposed design, location, and manner of operating of
the proposed special use will adequately protect the public health, safety, and
welfare, and the physical environment;
      2.   Whether the proposed special use is consistent with the village
comprehensive community plan;
      3.   The effect the proposed special use would have on the value of
neighboring property and on the village's overall tax base;
      4.   The effect the proposed special use would have on public utilities
and on traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
      5.   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed special use (such
as schools or hospitals) that require special protection. (Ord. 571, 4-2-1990)
   E.   Action By Board Of Trustees: The board of trustees shall act on every
request for a special use permit at their next regularly scheduled meeting
following submission of the zoning board of appeals advisory report. Without
further public hearing, the board of trustees may grant a special use permit by
an ordinance passed by simple majority vote of all members then holding office.
In a separate statement accompanying any such ordinance, the board of trustees
shall state their findings of fact and indicate their reasons for approving
(with or without conditions) or denying the request for a special use permit.
In addition, any proposed special use which fails to receive the approval of
the zoning board of appeals shall not be approved by the board of trustees
except by a favorable majority vote of all village trustees. (Ord. 571, 4-2-
1990; amd. 2012 Code)
10-3B-2: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS:
As set forth in section
10-4-3 of this title, requests for temporary use permits shall be treated in
substantially the same manner as requests for special use permits. The board of
trustees shall not initially issue any temporary use permit for a period longer
than one year, but they may renew any such permit as they see fit. (1981 Code §
17.72.060)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Compliance Required
10-4-2: Prohibited Uses
10-4-3: Temporary Uses
10-4-4: Accessory Uses
10-4-5: Meet Minimum Requirements
10-4-6: Access
10-4-7: Front Setbacks
10-4-8: Intrusions Into Yards
10-4-9: Height Limit Exceptions
10-4-10: Sewage System Required
10-4-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or part thereof shall be erected, used, occupied, enlarged,
altered, relocated, or reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this title. Similarly, no lot or part thereof shall be used, occupied, or
developed except in conformity with the provisions of this title. (1981 Code §
17.16.010)
10-4-2: PROHIBITED USES:
Whenever any use is not specifically listed as permitted or special within a
particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed prohibited in that
district. However, if the board of trustees, following consultation with the
building and zoning administrator and the village planning commission, finds
that the unlisted use is similar to and compatible with the listed uses, they
may allow such use by amending this title in accordance with section
10-3-4 of this title. The decision of the board of trustees shall become a
permanent public record, and any unlisted use that they approve shall
thereafter have the same status as listed uses. (1981 Code § 17.16.020)
10-4-3: TEMPORARY USES:
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this title, no temporary structure
shall be used or occupied for any purpose, and no land shall be used for any
temporary enterprise, whether for profit or not, unless a temporary use permit
has been obtained. No temporary use permit shall be valid for more than one
year unless it is properly renewed. (1981 Code § 17.16.030)
10-4-4: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Definition And Interpretation:
      1.   "Accessory use" means any structure or use which is:
         a.   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure or use
which it serves;
         b.   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants (whether individuals or a commercial enterprise) of the principal
structure or use served; and
         c.   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use served.
      2.   If an accessory use is attached to the principal structure, it shall
be considered part of such principal structure. (1981 Code § 17.16.110)
   B.   Permitted Accessory Uses: Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted
in a particular zoning district if such accessory use is:
      1.   Accessory to a principal structure or use that is allowed in that
zoning district as of right (permitted uses) or by virtue of the fact that a
special use permit has been granted; and
      2.   In compliance with the restrictions set forth in subsection C of
this section. (1981 Code § 17.16.120)
   C.   Restrictions:
      1.   Height: No accessory use shall be higher than:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') in any residential district; or (1981 Code §
17.16.130)
         b.   Twenty five feet (25') in any other zoning district except where
a special use permit has been granted. (1981 Code § 17.16.130; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Setbacks: No accessory use in any zoning district shall be located
in any part of any yard (front, side, or rear) that is required because of the
setback regulations of such district except where a special use permit has been
granted. (Ord. 480, 12-3-1984; amd. 2012 Code)
      3.   Yard Coverage: In any residential district, accessory uses shall not
cover more than thirty percent (30%) of a required rear yard.
      4.   Use As Dwelling Prohibited: Use of any accessory structure as a
dwelling is strictly prohibited throughout the zoning jurisdiction of the
village. (1981 Code § 17.16.130)
10-4-5: MEET MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this title, every lot must meet
the minimum area, minimum dimensions, and minimum setback requirements of the
district in which it is located independently; that is, without counting any
portion of an abutting lot. (1981 Code § 17.16.040)
10-4-6: ACCESS:
No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts or has permanent
easement of access to a public street or a private street that conforms to the
standards set forth in the land subdivision control ordinance of the village.
(1981 Code § 17.16.050)
10-4-7: FRONT SETBACKS:
   A.   Corner Or Through Lots: Every lot with multiple frontages (such as
corner or through lots) shall meet the front setback requirements of the
district in which it is located on every side having frontage. (1981 Code §
17.16.060)
   B.   Certain Built Up Areas: Except as specifically provided otherwise, in
all residential zoning districts and in the B-1 neighborhood business, B-
2 central business and B-3 highway business districts, where lots having fifty
percent (50%) or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
intersections (that is, in 1 block) are developed with buildings, and the front
setbacks of those lots do not differ by more than ten feet (10'), the minimum
required front setbacks on that block shall be the average of the existing
front setbacks; provided, however, that in any built up area, no front setback
less than fifteen feet (15') shall be permitted, nor shall any front setback
greater than fifty feet (50') be required. (1981 Code § 17.16.070; amd. 2012
Code)
10-4-8: INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS:
To the extent indicated below, the following features of principal buildings
may intrude into required yards without violating the minimum setback
requirements:
 
Feature                                               Maximum Intrusion
Balconies                                             4 feet
Canopies, roof overhangs                              4 feet
Cornices, chimneys, planters or similar architectural 2 feet
features
Fire escapes                                          4 feet
Patios                                                None
Porches, if unenclosed and at ground level            6 feet
 
(1981 Code § 17.16.080)
10-4-9: HEIGHT LIMIT EXCEPTIONS:
The following are the allowed exceptions to the height limits allowed under
this title:
   A.   Chimneys, church spires, parapet walls, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, antennas, or other necessary appurtenances commonly
constructed above the roofline shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height
limitations of the district in which they are located if they comply with all
other pertinent ordinances of the village.
   B.   On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land bounded by the street
lines of such corner lots and a line joining the two (2) points, each of which
is on one street line and thirty feet (30') from the point of intersection, no
obstruction, whether natural or manmade, shall intrude into the air space that
is between two feet (2') and ten feet (10') above the level of the adjacent
street. (1981 Code § 17.16.090)
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, all structures
erected within any airport hazard area, as defined by state law, shall conform
with the location, height, and identification requirements imposed by the
Illinois department of transportation, division of aeronautics, pursuant to an
act in relation to zoning to eliminate airport hazards 1
. (1981 Code § 17.16.090; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 620 ILCS 30/0.01 et seq.
10-4-10: SEWAGE SYSTEM REQUIRED:
   A.   In all districts, property owners of all buildings and places where
people live, work, or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all
sewage in accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   Whenever the municipal or public sanitary sewerage system is
reasonably available, all sewage shall be discharged into such system, whether
or not a private sewerage system already exists or is more convenient.
      2.   Whenever the municipal or public sewerage system is not reasonably
available, a private sewerage system shall be installed and used. All private
sewerage systems shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the following requirements:
         a.   Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act, 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 225/1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended; and
         b.   Illinois private sewage disposal code no. 4.002, promulgated by
the director of the Illinois department of public health, as now or hereafter
amended; and
         c.   Pertinent current regulations issued by the Illinois
environmental protection agency; and
         d.   Applicable codes and ordinances of the village.
   B.   The administrator shall not issue any initial certificate of zoning
compliance unless, following consultation with the village engineer, he is
satisfied that these requirements will be met. (1981 Code § 17.16.100)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-5-1: Districts Established
10-5-2: Zoning Map
10-5-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
10-5-4: Meet Minimum Area Requirement
10-5-5: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
10-5-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to implement the regulatory scheme of this title so as to achieve the
objectives enumerated in section
10-1-1 of this title, the village is divided into the following zoning
districts:
District Designation
District                            Designation
Single-family residence                SR-1
Single-family mobile home residence    TR-1
Two- and three-family residence        MR-1
Multiple-family residence              MR-2
Neighborhood business                  B-1
Central business                       B-2
Highway business                       B-3
Industrial                             I-1
 
(1981 Code § 17.12.010; amd. Ord. 863, 5-5-2008)
10-5-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   The boundaries of the zoning districts are established as shown on the
official zoning map of the village. This official map, including all notations
and other information thereon, is made a part of this title by reference. The
official zoning map shall be kept on file in the administrator's office. (1981
Code § 17.12.020)
   B.   In accordance with state law, the administrator shall publish the
zoning map of the village not later than March 31 of each year. However, no map
shall be published for any calendar year during which there have been no
changes in zoning districts or regulations. (1981 Code § 17.12.030)
10-5-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
In determining with precision what territory is actually included within any
zoning district, the building and zoning administrator shall apply the
following rules:
   A.   Where a district boundary, as indicated on the zoning map,
approximately follows any of the features listed below on the left, the
corresponding feature on the right shall be deemed the district boundary:
 
Centerline of any street, alley or highway   Such centerline
Lot line                                     Such lot line
Railroad tracks                              Right of way line of such tracks
Section lines, quarter section lines,        Such lines
quarter-quarter section lines, survey lines
Stream                                       Center of such stream
 
   B.   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is legally vacated, the
zoning districts adjoining each side of such vacated public way shall
automatically extend to the center of such way, and all territory included in
the vacated way shall thereafter be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts.
   C.   The regulatory flood elevation at any point in question shall determine
where the floodplain overlay district boundary is located on the land. (1981
Code § 17.12.040)
10-5-4: MEET MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENT:
The minimum area requirement (which is intended to prevent spot zoning) refers
to the smallest total area of contiguous parcels that can properly be given the
particular district classification. The minimum area requirement is not
satisfied merely because the areas of numerous noncontiguous parcels, when
aggregated, happen to equal or exceed the minimum area indicated herein. (1981
Code § 17.12.010)
10-5-5: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
Any territory hereafter annexed to the village shall automatically be in the
SR-1 single-family residence district, until duly changed by an amendment to
this title; except, that the village board, with the advice of the planning
commission, may annex any territory as any other zoning district or districts
herein established if all legal requirements for zoning the property at the
time of the annexation and the requirements for amending this title by the
extension of the zoning district provisions are met. (1981 Code § 17.12.050)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. SR-1 AND TR-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Purpose
10-6A-2: One Principal Building Per Lot
10-6A-3: Lot And Building Requirements
10-6A-4: Permitted Uses
10-6A-5: Special Uses
10-6A-1: PURPOSE:
In the SR-1 and TR-1 single-family residence districts, land is principally
used for, or is best suited for, detached single-family dwellings and related
educational, religious, and recreational facilities. The regulations applicable
to each single-family residence district are intended to stabilize and preserve
sound existing neighborhoods developed at varying densities. The differing
regulations are also intended to promote the development of a range of new
single- family housing that is appropriate for persons having different social
needs and income levels. (1981 Code § 17.20.010)
10-6A-2: ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING PER LOT:
In the SR-1 and TR-1 districts, only one principal building (which includes a
mobile home) shall be erected on any lot. (1981 Code § 17.20.020)
10-6A-3: LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
Every lot and every principal building erected in any SR-1 or TR-1 district
shall conform to the applicable requirements indicated in the following table:
(1981 Code § 17.20.030; amd. 2012 Code)
Requirements  SR-1     TR-1
              District District
Requirements                                       SR-1          TR-1
                                                   District      District
Minimum lot area                                  6,000 sq. ft. 6,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot width, at established building line   50 ft.        50 ft.
Minimum lot depth                                 100 ft.       100 ft.
Minimum setbacks:                                               
 From front lot line                             25 ft.        25 ft.
 Side yards:                                                   
    Minimum total setback from both side lot  15 ft.        15 ft.
  lines
    Minimum setback from either side lot line 5 ft.         5 ft.
 From rear lot line                              25 ft.        25 ft.
Maximum building height                           35 ft.        35 ft.
 
(1981 Code § 17.20.030)
10-6A-4: PERMITTED USES:
The following are the permitted uses in the SR-1 and TR-1 single-family
residence districts:
Accessory uses in accordance with section
10-4-4 of this title.
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Detached single-family dwellings.
Governmental uses of the village.
Libraries.
Mobile homes on private lots, provided all the regulations of sections
10-9-13 and
10-9-14 of this title are met, but only in the TR-1 district.
Parks, playgrounds.
Schools, public or private, elementary or secondary. (1981 Code § 17.20.040)
10-6A-5: SPECIAL USES:
The following are the special uses allowed in the SR-1 and TR-1 single-family
residence districts:
Cemeteries.
Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their chief activity a
service customarily carried on as a business.
Daycare centers; nursery schools.
Golf courses, regulation size.
Government uses other than those of the village.
Home occupations, see section
10-9-16 of this title.
Hospitals, nursing homes, sanatoriums.
Medical and dental offices and clinics.
Mobile home parks (but not travel trailer parks) in conformity with the
requirements of the mobile home park ordinance, but only in the TR-1 district.
Two-family dwellings, but only in the TR-1 district.
Utility substations. (1981 Code § 17.20.050)
ARTICLE B. MR-1 AND MR-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose
10-6B-2: Lot And Building Requirements
10-6B-3: Permitted Uses
10-6B-4: Special Uses
10-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The MR-1 and MR-2 multiple-family residence districts are established to
stabilize and conserve existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of
multiple-family dwellings built either at low/medium or at relatively high
density. These districts are also intended to promote the development of
comparable new areas in order to accommodate all persons desiring this type of
residential environment. (1981 Code § 17.24.010)
10-6B-2: LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Detached single-family and two-family dwellings erected in either the
MR-1 or MR-2 district shall comply with the one principal building per lot
regulation of section
10-6A-2 of this chapter.
   B.   All other principal buildings shall conform to the requirements
indicated in the following table:
Requirements  MR-1 District  MR-2 District
Requirements              MR-1 District            MR-2 District
Minimum lot area           3,000 sq. ft. per unit  2,000 sq. ft. per unit
Minimum lot width at        50 ft. or 25 ft. per     50 ft. or 10 ft. per unit,
established building line  unit, whichever is      whichever is greater
                            greater
Minimum lot depth          120 ft.                 120 ft.
Minimum setbacks:                                  
                                                     25 ft., plus 1 ft. for
From front lot line        25 ft.                  every 2 ft. by which the
                                                     building height exceeds 35
                                                     ft.
                                                     10 ft., plus 1 ft. for
From any side lot line     15 ft.                  every 2 ft. by which the
                                                     building height exceeds 35
                                                     ft.
From rear lot line         25 ft.                  25 ft.
Maximum building height    35 ft.                  60 ft.
 
(1981 Code § 17.24.020)
10-6B-3: PERMITTED USES:
The following are the permitted uses allowed in the MR-1 and MR-2 multiple-
family residence districts:
Accessory uses in accordance with section
10-4-4 of this title.
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Daycare centers, nursery schools.
Governmental uses of the village.
Libraries.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Parks, playgrounds.
Schools, public or private, elementary or secondary.
Single-family dwellings, detached or attached.
Two-family dwellings. (1981 Code § 17.24.030)
10-6B-4: SPECIAL USES:
The following are the special uses allowed in the MR-1 and MR-2 multiple-family
residence districts:
Boarding houses, rooming houses.
Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their chief activity a
service customarily carried on as a business.
Convenience shops (e.g., small drugstore, food store, laundromat), but only if
located on the ground floor of a multiple-family dwelling.
Governmental uses other than those of the village.
Home occupations.
Hospitals, nursing homes, sanatoriums.
Medical and dental offices and clinics.
Utility substations. (1981 Code § 17.24.040)
CHAPTER 7
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Description
10-7A-2: Lot And Building Requirements
10-7A-3: Permitted Uses
10-7A-4: Use Restrictions
10-7A-1: DESCRIPTION:
The B-1 neighborhood business district, as delineated on the zoning map,
encompasses small commercial enclaves located within predominantly residential
areas. Only selected small scale sales and service facilities that constitute a
convenience to residents of the immediate neighborhood may locate in this
district. These commercial establishments must be compatible in design and
operation with an essentially residential environment. (1981 Code § 17.28.010)
10-7A-2: LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
There are no lot or building requirements in the B-1 district, except
residential uses shall comply with all the regulations of the least restrictive
residence district in which that type of residential use is permitted, and if
the area abuts an SR-1 or MR-1 district, a side yard of twelve feet (12') is
required. (1981 Code § 17.28.030; amd. 2012 Code)
10-7A-3: PERMITTED USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of the B-1 district are observed, the
following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with section
10-4-4 of this title.
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Clubs and lodges.
Commercial establishments.
Governmental uses of the village.
Libraries, museums.
Offices.
Service establishments. (1981 Code § 17.28.040)
10-7A-4: USE RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions are placed on uses in the B-1 district:
   A.   Every commercial or service establishment located in this district
shall deal directly with consumers.
   B.   All commercial, service, and storage activities shall be conducted
within completely enclosed structures.
   C.   The gross floor area of any commercial or service establishment located
in this district shall not exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet.
   D.   Any accessway (driveway) to any off street parking lot or loading berth
shall be located at least ten feet (10') from any lot line.
   E.   All refuse generated by any establishment located within this district
shall be stored in tightly covered containers placed in a visually screened
area.
   F.   Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any residence
district, screening (a wall, solid fence, or closely planted shrubbery) at
least six feet (6') high and of sufficient density to completely block the view
from the adjacent residential property shall be provided.
   G.   Parking shall be as set forth in chapter 10 of this title. (1981 Code §
17.28.020)
ARTICLE B. B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Description
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Special Uses
10-7B-4: Use Restrictions
10-7B-1: DESCRIPTION:
The B-2 central business district encompasses the concentrated pedestrian
oriented commercial area of the village. Stores and other facilities providing
a wide range of retail goods and services to the general public may be located
within this district. (1981 Code § 17.32.010)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of the B-2 district are observed, the
following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with section
10-4-4 of this title.
Auditoriums, meeting rooms, and other places of assembly.
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Clubs and lodges.
Commercial establishments.
Governmental uses of the village.
Libraries, museums.
Mass transit facilities.
Offices.
Service establishments. (1981 Code § 17.32.030)
10-7B-3: SPECIAL USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of the B-2 district are observed, the
following uses may be allowed by special use permit:
Any use, such as drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, service stations, etc.,
that offers goods or services directly to customers waiting in parked vehicles,
or that sells food or beverages for consumption on the premises in parked motor
vehicles.
Any use that involves commercial, service, or storage activities conducted
outside completely enclosed buildings.
Dwelling units.
Governmental uses other than those of the village.
Hospitals, medical/dental clinics, see section
10-9-8 of this title.
Utility substations, see section
10-9-4 of this title. (1981 Code § 17.32.040)
10-7B-4: USE RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions are placed upon uses in the B-2 district:
   A.   Every commercial or service establishment located in this district
shall deal directly with consumers.
   B.   Any processing or treatment of goods on any premises must be clearly
incidental to the retail business conducted on such premises.
   C.   A special use permit is required to conduct any commercial, service, or
storage activities outside a completely enclosed building.
   D.   All refuse generated by any establishment located within this district
shall be stored in tightly covered containers placed in a visually screened
area.
   E.   Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any residence
district, screening (a wall, solid fence, or closely planted shrubbery) at
least six feet (6') high and of sufficient density to completely block the view
from the adjacent residential property shall be installed. (1981 Code §
17.32.020)
ARTICLE C. B-3 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7C-1: Description
10-7C-2: Permitted Uses
10-7C-3: Special Uses
10-7C-4: Use Restrictions
10-7C-1: DESCRIPTION:
The B-3 highway business district, as delineated on the zoning map, encompasses
commercial enclaves located predominately within areas along Illinois Route I-
255 and Illinois Route I-143. Stores, hotels, motels and other facilities
providing a wide range of retail goods and services to the general public may
be located within this district. (Ord. 863, 5-5-2008)
10-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of the B-3 district are observed, the
following uses are permitted:
Auditoriums, meeting rooms, and other places of assembly.
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Clubs and lodges.
Commercial establishments.
Dwelling units.
Governmental uses, including governmental uses of the village.
Hospitals, medical/dental clinics.
Libraries, museums.
Mass transit facilities.
Offices.
Retail sale of alcoholic liquor as provided in title 4, chapter 1 of this code,
and in accordance with the Illinois liquor code 1
.
Service establishments. (Ord. 863, 5-5-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
10-7C-3: SPECIAL USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of the B-3 district are observed, the
following uses may be permitted by special use permit:
Any commercial, service, or storage activities outside a completely enclosed
building.
Any use, such as drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, service stations, etc.,
that offers goods or services directly to customers waiting in parked vehicles,
or that sells food or beverages for consumption on the premises in parked motor
vehicles.
Any use that involves the sale of alcoholic liquor and which is within one
thousand feet (1,000') of a residential structure, school, library, or church
(as measured from building to building).
Utility substations. (Ord. 863, 5-5-2008)
10-7C-4: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Every commercial or service establishment located in the B-3 district
shall deal directly with consumers.
   B.   Any processing or treatment of goods on any premises must be clearly
incidental to the retail business conducted on such premises.
   C.   All refuse generated by any establishment located within the B-
3 district shall be stored in tightly covered containers placed in a visually
screened area.
   D.   Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any residence
district, or from Illinois Route I-255 or I-143, screening (a wall, solid
fence, or closely planted shrubbery) at least six feet (6') high and of
sufficient density to completely block the view from the adjacent residential
property shall be installed.
   E.   Parking shall be as set forth in chapter 10 of this title.
   F.   Any and all construction, building operation and maintenance shall
comply with all applicable state and village codes.
   G.   Accessory uses shall be in accordance with section
10-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 863, 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 8
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Permitted Uses
10-8-3: Special Uses
10-8-4: Use Restrictions
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The I-1 industrial district is intended to provide for areas where light
industry, research facilities, warehouses, and wholesale businesses may locate
without detriment to the remainder of the community. In these areas, a
satisfactory correlation of factors required by such uses exists or can be
readily achieved. (1981 Code § 17.36.010)
10-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of the I-1 district are observed, the
following uses are permitted:
Accessory uses in accordance with section
10-4-4 of this title.
Assembly, manufacturing, or processing of any commodity from semifinished
materials, provided explosives, flammable gases or liquids, or live animals are
not involved.
Freight and bus terminals, and related mass transportation facilities.
Government uses of the village.
Research and development facilities not involving explosives or flammable gases
or liquids.
Service stations.
Warehousing or wholesaling of goods except explosives, flammable gases or
liquids, or live animals. (1981 Code § 17.36.030)
10-8-3: SPECIAL USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of the I-1 district are observed, the
following uses may be allowed by special use permit:
Assembly, manufacturing, processing, warehousing, or wholesaling involving
explosives, flammable gases or liquids, or live animals.
Government uses other than those of the village.
Junkyards.
Research and development facilities involving explosives or flammable liquids
or gases.
Utility substations. (1981 Code § 17.36.040)
10-8-4: USE RESTRICTIONS:
The following restrictions are placed upon uses in the I-1 district:
   A.   No production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair, sale,
or storage of goods, materials, or equipment shall unreasonably interfere with
the use, occupancy, or enjoyment of neighboring properties or the community as
a whole. Unreasonable interferences include, but are not limited to, excessive
traffic congestion, loud or shrill noises, excessive emission of smoke,
emission of toxic gases, excessive glare, and noxious odors.
   B.   All production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, or repair
activities shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings. Storage
areas may be open to the sky but shall be enclosed by walls or fences (whether
solid or chainlink), including gates, at least eight feet (8') high.
   C.   Wherever any industrial use located in the I-1 district abuts any other
district, a twenty foot (20') wide view and noise control buffer strip shall be
installed. Such buffer strip shall consist of densely planted shrubbery that is
at least five feet (5') high when planted and that can be expected to reach a
height of ten feet (10') when full grown. (1981 Code § 17.36.020)
CHAPTER 9
SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Application Of Provisions
10-9-2: Fences And Walls
10-9-3: Swimming Pools
10-9-4: Utility Substations
10-9-5: Repair Garages
10-9-6: Service Stations
10-9-7: Greenhouses And Nurseries
10-9-8: Hospitals And Nursing Homes
10-9-9: Junkyards
10-9-10: Sanitary Landfills
10-9-11: Kennels
10-9-12: Horses
10-9-13: Temporary Parking Of Mobile Homes
10-9-14: Mobile Home Parks
10-9-15: Recreational Vehicles
10-9-16: Home Occupations
10-9-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter establishes lot and structure requirements, design, standards, and
use limitations for specific, potentially troublesome structures and uses.
These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific structure
or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit, but if more stringent
regulations are applicable in any particular district, such regulations shall
prevail. (1981 Code § 17.40.010)
10-9-2: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   No barbed wire or electrically charged fence shall be erected or
maintained anywhere in the village, except by special use permit. (1981 Code §
17.40.020; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   No fence, wall, or other obstruction shall be erected within any public
right of way, except by written permission of the building and zoning
administrator.
   C.   No fence, wall, or other obstruction shall be erected in violation of
the Illinois drainage code 1
.
D. Every fence, wall, or other obstruction shall conform to the special height
restrictions applicable in areas near intersections as set forth in subsection
10-4-9B of this title. (1981 Code § 17.40.020)
 
Notes
1 1. 70 ILCS 605/2-1 et seq.
10-9-3: SWIMMING POOLS:
   A.   Location: No swimming pool, whether public or private, shall be located
in any front yard or closer than ten feet (10') to any side or rear lot line.
   B.   Fence Requirements: Every swimming pool that is more than two feet (2')
deep shall be enclosed by a wall or fence at least four feet (4') in height.
The passage through such wall or fence shall be equipped with a gate. (1981
Code § 17.40.160)
10-9-4: UTILITY SUBSTATIONS:
Every electrical substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange
facility, sewage treatment plant, water storage facility, or similar facility
shall be deemed a special use, and shall conform to the following regulations:
   A.   Every lot on which any such facility is situated shall meet the minimum
area and dimension requirements of the district in which it is located. Every
part of any such facility shall be located at least twenty five feet (25') from
all lot lines or shall meet the district setback requirements, whichever is
greater.
   B.   In any residential district, every such facility shall be designed,
constructed, and operated so that it is compatible with the residential
character of the area.
   C.   Screening at least ten feet (10') in height and of sufficient density
to block the view from adjacent property shall be installed around every such
facility. Furthermore, if the administrator determines that the facility poses
a safety hazard (for example, if there are exposed transformers), he shall
require that a secure fence at least eight feet (8') in height be installed
behind the planting screen. (1981 Code § 17.40.170)
10-9-5: REPAIR GARAGES:
In repair garages, all repair work, servicing, storage of parts and equipment
and the dismantling of vehicles shall be done completely within an enclosed
building or shall be enclosed by a solid fence at least six feet (6') in
height. (1981 Code § 17.40.030)
10-9-6: SERVICE STATIONS:
   A.   All gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall be located at
least twenty five feet (25') from any street right of way line, side lot line,
or rear lot line.
   B.   Every accessway shall be located at least two hundred feet (200') from
the principal building of any fire station, school, public library, church,
park, or playground, and at least thirty feet (30') from any intersection of
public streets.
   C.   Every device for dispensing or selling milk, ice, soft drinks, snacks
and similar products shall be located within or adjacent to the principal
building.
   D.   All trash receptacles, except minor receptacles adjacent to the
gasoline pumps, shall be screened from view.
   E.   Whenever the use of a service station has been discontinued for twelve
(12) consecutive months, or for eighteen (18) months during any three (3) year
period, the administrator shall order that all underground storage tanks be
removed or filled with material approved by the fire chief. (1981 Code §
17.40.140)
10-9-7: GREENHOUSES AND NURSERIES:
A. No fertilizer, compost, manure, or other odor or dust producing substance
shall be stored closer than one hundred feet (100') to any lot line.
B. Greenhouse heating plants shall be situated in an enclosed structure and
shall not be closer than fifty feet (50') to any lot line. (1981 Code §
17.40.040)
10-9-8: HOSPITALS AND NURSING HOMES:
   A.   Lot Width, Depth And Area:
      1.   Hospitals: The lot on which any hospital or sanatorium is situated
shall have a minimum width and depth of two hundred feet (200'), and a minimum
area of five (5) acres.
      2.   Nursing Homes: The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall
have a minimum width and depth of two hundred feet (200') and a minimum area of
two (2) acres.
   B.   Setbacks: The principal building of any hospital, sanatorium, or
nursing home shall be located at least twenty five feet (25') from all lot
lines. (1981 Code § 17.40.060)
10-9-9: JUNKYARDS:
   A.   Location: No part of any junkyard, which includes any lot on which
three (3) or more inoperable vehicles are stored, shall be located closer than
five hundred feet (500') to the boundary of any residential district.
   B.   Screening: All vehicles, parts, and equipment shall be stored within a
completely enclosed structure or within an area screened by a wall, solid
fence, or closely planted shrubbery at least ten feet (10') high and of
sufficient density to block the view from adjacent property. (1981 Code §
17.40.070)
10-9-10: SANITARY LANDFILLS:
Any person who intends to establish or conduct a sanitary landfill within the
zoning jurisdiction of the village shall obtain a permit from the Illinois
environmental protection agency indicating that the sanitary landfill fully
complies with the "Solid Waste Rules And Regulations" promulgated by the IEPA
pursuant to the authority granted by state law 1
. (1981 Code § 17.40.130)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/22.
10-9-11: KENNELS:
   A.   Lot Area: The lot on which any kennel is situated shall have a minimum
area of three (3) acres.
   B.   Location: Every kennel shall be located at least two hundred feet
(200') from the nearest dwelling and at least one hundred feet (100') from any
lot line. (1981 Code § 17.40.080)
10-9-12: HORSES:
In any zoning district where the keeping of horses is granted by a special use
permit, at least five (5) acres shall be allocated for the first horse kept,
and two (2) more acres shall be allocated for each additional horse kept. (1981
Code § 17.40.150; amd. 2012 Code)
10-9-13: TEMPORARY PARKING OF MOBILE HOMES:
The temporary parking of an individual mobile home is permitted subject to the
following regulations:
   A.   An individual mobile home may be parked outside the public right of
way, as not otherwise prohibited, for a period of seventy two (72) hours;
provided, that no such mobile home is parked nearer than twenty five feet (25')
to any right of way line abutting a public street.
   B.   An individual mobile home may be parked on a zoning lot for a period of
two (2) weeks; provided, that:
      1.   Such individual mobile home is parked in compliance with all setback
requirements from any lot line or right of way line.
      2.   A permit is secured by the property owner from the building and
zoning administrator within seventy two (72) hours, showing the date of
issuance, name and address of property owner, address for which the permit is
issued and the date of termination.
      3.   All such permits shall be returned to the building and zoning
administrator on or before the date of termination.
      4.   Not more than three (3) permits shall be issued to any property
owner during any calendar year except on approval of the zoning board of
appeals. (1981 Code § 17.40.110)
10-9-14: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
In any district where mobile home parks are permitted, the establishment of
such accommodations shall be subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Minimum Lot Size And Yards: The following regulations relative to the
minimum lot size and minimum yard dimensions shall apply to the entire tract of
land on which the mobile home park is situated:
      1.   A mobile home park shall be located on a tract of land not less than
five (5) acres in area, with minimum width and depth dimensions of two hundred
feet (200').
      2.   Any building, structure, or mobile home shall be located at least
twenty five feet (25') from any front or rear lot line or any side lot line
adjacent to a street and at least ten feet (10') from any other lot line.
   B.   Height: No building or structure within the mobile home park will
exceed the height of thirty five feet (35').
   C.   Off Street Parking And Accessways:
      1.   There shall be provided, within the boundaries of the mobile home
park site, not less than one off street parking space for each mobile home
space.
      2.    The mobile home park site shall have direct access to a public
street or highway by an accessway of at least forty feet (40') in width.
      3.   Each mobile home space shall abut on a driveway or accessway, at
least twenty four feet (24') wide, with unobstructed access to a public street.
Each mobile home space shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of such
driveway or accessway. Appropriate turnaround space shall be provided at the
terminus of any dead end accessways in the mobile home park sufficient to
accommodate emergency vehicles.
   D.   Mobile Home Spaces:
      1.   The minimum individual area, width and depth requirements for mobile
home spaces shall be as follows:
 
                              Area          Width  Depth
Dependent mobile home space   2,350 sq. ft. 42 ft. 50 ft.
Independent mobile home space 4,000 sq. ft. 42 ft. 70 ft.
      2.   Spaces shall be arranged and mobile homes parked in such manner that
there is an open space of at least fifteen feet by thirty feet (15' x 30') at
the rear of and as a part of each mobile home space; except, that where a
common recreation area is provided that contains at least one hundred (100)
square feet for each mobile home space, with a minimum total area of five
thousand (5,000) square feet and the minimum width and depth dimension of one
hundred feet (100'), the individual mobile home space may have the following
minimum area, width and depth dimensions:
 
                              Area          Width  Depth
Dependent mobile home space   2,100 sq. ft. 42 ft. 45 ft.
Independent mobile home space 3,500 sq. ft. 42 ft. 60 ft.
   E.   Permitted Uses: Only residential uses and uses accessory thereto shall
be permitted in a mobile home park. (1981 Code § 17.40.090)
10-9-15: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
The regulations of this section do not apply to travel trailers or other
recreational vehicles parked in a permitted travel trailer park that conforms
to the pertinent requirements of the village. The requirements of subsections
A, C and D of this section do not apply to travel trailers or other
recreational vehicles parked on a permitted recreational vehicle sales lot.
(1981 Code § 17.40.120; amd. 2012 Code)
   A.   Not more than one travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be
parked on any lot.
   B.   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as a
dwelling.
   C.   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as an
office or for any other commercial purpose.
   D.   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be parked on any
front yard, except on a driveway. (1981 Code § 17.40.120)
10-9-16: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Special Use Permit Required: Within the village, every home occupation
shall be considered a special use.
   B.   Regulations: No home occupation shall be established or conducted
except in conformity with the following regulations:
      1.   Such use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried
on by the inhabitants thereof and no others.
      2.   Such use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and shall not change the residential character
thereof.
      3.   The total area used for such purposes shall not exceed the
equivalent of one-half (1/2) the floor area, in square feet, of the first floor
of the user's dwelling unit, if any; otherwise, the main floor of such dwelling
unit.
      4.   There shall be no advertising, display or other indications of the
home occupation on the premises, except the customary sign or nameplate for
identification purposes only.
      5.   There shall not be conducted on the premises the business of selling
stocks of merchandise, supplies, or products; provided, that incidental retail
sales may be made in connection with other permitted home occupations.
      6.   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material used
in the home occupation nor of any highly explosive or combustible material.
      7.   There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors,
heat or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
      8.   A home occupation, including studios or rooms for instruction, shall
provide additional off street parking area, reasonably adequate to accommodate
needs created by the home occupation, of not less than one parking space for
each three hundred (300) square feet of floor area devoted to the home
occupation. Such parking shall be provided on the same lot as the home
occupation.
      9.   For the purposes of this section, provided all requirements
contained herein are met, the following shall be considered home occupations:
Art studio.
Dressmaking or millinery.
Professional office except as otherwise provided.
Teaching with musical instruction limited to two (2) pupils at a time.
      10.   The following home occupations are specifically prohibited:
   Animal hospital.
   Antique shop.
   Barbershop.
   Beauty parlor.
   Clinic.
   Funeral home.
   Hospital.
   Mortuary.
   Nursing home.
   Restaurant.
   Tearoom.
   Tourist home.
Veterinarian's office. (1981 Code § 17.40.050; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 10
OFF STREET PARKING
SECTION:
10-10-1: Location Of Parking Lots
10-10-2: Space Size And Location
10-10-3: Accessways
10-10-4: Drainage And Paving
10-10-5: Parking In Front Or Side Yards Prohibited; Building Setback
10-10-6: Combined Uses Prohibited
10-10-1: LOCATION OF PARKING LOTS:
Parking areas, whether opened or enclosed, shall be provided upon the same lot
containing the use for which they are required, or on separate lots as follows:
   A.   Within a two hundred foot (200') radius in all residential and B-
1 community business districts. (1981 Code § 17.44.010)
   B.   Within a five hundred foot (500') radius in B-2 general business
districts, B-3 highway business districts and I-1 industrial districts. (1981
Code § 17.44.010; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Such separate lots shall be classified as "parking lots" or "parking
garages" in determining whether they are permitted in a particular district.
   D.   Such separate lots and the lot containing the use for which they are
required shall be held under unified ownership or control as required for a
lot. (1981 Code § 17.44.010)
10-10-2: SPACE SIZE AND LOCATION:
   A.   Size: Each off street parking space shall not be less than ten feet
(10') wide and twenty feet (20') long. (1981 Code § 17.44.020)
   B.   Location:
      1.   All parking aisles and parking spaces shall be entirely within lot
lines and not on a public right of way.
      2.   Parking spaces shall be so arranged that no part of any vehicle
overhangs the public right of way. (1981 Code § 17.44.040)
10-10-3: ACCESSWAYS:
Unobstructed and direct accessways shall be provided from off street parking to
a street or alley, which accessways shall have a minimum width of at least
eight feet (8') to a private garage and ten feet (10') to a parking lot. The
alignments of accessways shall intersect the abutting street lines
approximately at right angles (variations not to exceed 20 degrees). (1981 Code
§ 17.44.030)
10-10-4: DRAINAGE AND PAVING:
All parking areas in the MR-2, B-1, B-2 and I-1 districts shall be properly
drained and paved with an all weather surface. (1981 Code § 17.44.050)
10-10-5: PARKING IN FRONT OR SIDE YARDS PROHIBITED; BUILDING SETBACK:
Required open or enclosed parking areas in any SR-1 or MR-1 district shall not
be located in any required front yard or required side yard adjacent to a
street. Where off street parking is provided between any building and a street,
in order to accommodate pedestrian and vehicular traffic, the building shall be
set back at least fifty feet (50') from the lot line. (1981 Code § 17.44.060;
amd. 2012 Code)
10-10-6: COMBINED USES PROHIBITED:
No part of an off street parking area required for any building or use for the
purpose of complying with the provisions of this title shall be included as a
part of an off street parking space similarly required for another building or
use. (1981 Code § 17.44.070)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Compliance Required; Exemptions
10-11-2: Moving Or Flashing Signs Prohibited
10-11-3: Classification Of Permitted Signs
10-11-4: Freestanding Signs; Height Restriction
10-11-5: Advertising Signs And Billboards
10-11-6: Temporary Signs
10-11-7: Subdivision Signs
10-11-8: Signs In B-1 District
10-11-9: Signs In B-2, B-3 And I-1 Districts
10-11-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   All signs hereafter constructed, corrected, painted, or otherwise
established, moved, altered, or changed within the limits of the village shall
comply with the regulations of this chapter; except, that repair and/or
maintenance of lawful nonconforming signs shall be in accordance with the
regulations set forth. (1981 Code § 17.48.010)
   B.   Sign regulations of this title shall not apply to governmental signs
including traffic signs which are erected and intended for public information,
direction, safety or control purposes, and no sign in any district shall
conflict in any manner with the clear and obvious appearance of public devices
controlling public traffic. (1981 Code § 17.48.020)
10-11-2: MOVING OR FLASHING SIGNS PROHIBITED:
Except as provided in subsection
9-8-6B3 of this code, no moving sign or signs with varying intermittent
lighting intensity shall be permitted in any district. (1981 Code § 17.48.030)
10-11-3: CLASSIFICATION OF PERMITTED SIGNS:
The types of signs permitted are hereby classified according to construction
and location on the lot, as follows:
   A.   Class 1, freestanding sign.
   B.   Class 2, projecting sign.
   C.   Class 3, roof sign.
   D.   Class 4, wall sign.
   E.   Class 5, combination sign. (1981 Code § 17.48.050)
10-11-4: FREESTANDING SIGNS; HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
No freestanding sign shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height. (1981 Code
§ 17.48.040)
10-11-5: ADVERTISING SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
   A.   Location:
      1.   Advertising signs or billboards shall not be permitted in any zoning
district other than the I-1 industrial district.
      2.   Advertising signs or billboards shall be located not less than
twenty five feet (25') from any lot line fronting on or adjoining a street
right of way.
   B.   Maximum Size: The dimensions of advertising signs or billboards shall
be limited to the lesser of:
      1.   Eight feet (8') in width by five feet (5') in height; or
      2.   One square foot of aggregate sign area per two (2) linear feet of
lot frontage on a street; provided, that the maximum dimension may be increased
by one additional square foot of sign area for each linear foot of setback
beyond said twenty five foot (25') setback line, measured in one direction only
from any lot line fronting on or adjoining a street right of way, but in any
case, not exceeding a total of five hundred (500) square feet of aggregate sign
area on any lot. In determining the total permitted sign area of advertising
signs or billboards, the total sign area of all signs on the lot shall be
considered as part of the total sign area permitted.
   C.   Height: Advertising signs or billboards shall not exceed twenty feet
(20') in total height from the ground. (1981 Code § 17.48.100)
10-11-6: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs shall not remain in place for a period of more than thirty (30)
days; except, that the building and zoning administrator may extend the time
period for an additional thirty (30) days. Any further time extension shall
thereafter be applied for through the zoning board of appeals, and the board
may grant such time extension as seems reasonable and necessary. (1981 Code §
17.48.090)
10-11-7: SUBDIVISION SIGNS:
In any subdivision for which a plat has been filed for approval by the village,
nonilluminated subdivision signs may be erected subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   Not more than two (2) such signs shall be permitted for any subdivision
held in single or common ownership.
   B.   The total area of any such sign shall not exceed one hundred (100)
square feet. Such subdivision sign or signs may be displayed for a period of
time not to exceed two (2) years from the date of issuance of the permit for
the first building in the subdivision or the duration of the project, whichever
is less, unless an extension for a specific additional period of time is
granted by the zoning board of appeals. (1981 Code § 17.48.060)
10-11-8: SIGNS IN B-1 DISTRICT:
In the B-1 community business district, the following additional sign
regulations shall apply:
   A.   The total surface area of all signs shall be limited to two (2) square
feet of sign (or total signs) for each linear foot of the front width of the
business building or business unit, or one square foot of sign for each linear
foot of lot frontage, whichever is greater; provided, that the total surface
area of any one sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet. Only one
side of a business building facing a street shall be considered to be the
front.
   B.   On buildings including more than one business, the front width of each
individual business unit shall be used to determine the maximum sign area for
that business.
   C.   Projecting signs shall not project more than six feet (6') from the
principal building.
   D.   No sign shall project more than ten feet (10') above the highest point
of the roof structure of the building to which it is attached.
   E.   Freestanding signs shall project not more than six feet (6') into any
required yard.
   F.   Signs may project up to six feet (6') into any public right of way,
street or alley; however, in no case shall any sign project into that part of
any public right of way intended or designed for traffic circulation or
parking. Any such projection shall only be permitted above a height of ten feet
(10'). In the event widening necessitates removal of any sign, removal and/or
replacement shall be the responsibility of the property owner. (1981 Code §
17.48.070)
10-11-9: SIGNS IN B-2, B-3 AND I-1 DISTRICTS:
In the B-2 general business district, the B-3 highway business district and the
I-1 industrial district, the following additional regulations shall apply:
(1981 Code § 17.48.080; amd. 2012 Code)
   A.   The surface area of all projecting, freestanding, wall, combination or
roof signs shall not be greater than two (2) square feet for each linear foot
of the front width of the business building or business unit, or one and one-
half (11/2) square feet for each linear foot of lot frontage, whichever is
greater; provided, that the maximum total surface area for the aforementioned
signs shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet. However, the maximum
permitted surface area for any one of the aforementioned signs may be increased
by one square foot for each two (2) linear feet that the signs are set back
from the required setback line. Only the setback from one street and/or setback
line shall be permitted for increase.
   B.   No point on any sign shall project more than ten feet (10') above the
highest point of the roof structure of the building of which it is attached.
   C.   No freestanding sign shall be set nearer to the lot line adjacent to a
street than the required minimum setback for the principal building.
   D.   Projecting signs and marquees shall not project more than eight feet
(8') from the principal building. Signs may project up to six feet (6') into
any public right of way, street or alley; however, in no case shall any sign
project into that part of any public right of way intended or designed for
traffic circulation or parking. Any such projection shall only be permitted
above a height of ten feet (10'). In the event widening necessitates removal of
any sign, removal and/or replacement shall be the responsibility of the
property owner. (1981 Code § 17.48.080)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Introduction; Purpose
10-12-2: Nonconforming Lots
10-12-3: Nonconforming Structures
10-12-4: Nonconforming Uses
10-12-5: Nonconformities Under Permit Authority
10-12-1: INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE:
The requirements imposed by this title are designed to guide the use of land by
encouraging the development of structures and uses that are compatible with the
predominant character of each of the various districts. Lots, structures, and
uses of land or structures that do not conform to the requirements of the
district in which they are located impede appropriate development. For example,
nonconformities are frequently responsible for heavy traffic on residential
streets, the overtaxing of parking facilities, the emission of noxious fumes or
excessive noise, and/or the lowering of property values. The regulations of
this title are intended to alleviate such existing/potential problems by
encouraging the gradual elimination of nonconformities. (1981 Code § 17.52.010)
10-12-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   Specifications: Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of
the lot size (area dimensions) requirements of the district in which it is
located may be used in the manner indicated in subsections B and C of this
section if such vacant lot:
      1.   Is of record on the effective date hereof; and
      2.   Has continuously remained in separate ownership from abutting tracts
of land throughout the entire period during which the creation of such lot was
prohibited by any applicable zoning or other ordinance; and
      3.   Is at least thirty feet (30') wide. (1981 Code § 17.52.020)
   B.   Residential Districts: In any residential district, one single-family
dwelling and related accessory structures, but no other use, may be erected on
any vacant nonconforming lot of the type described in subsection A of this
section, provided all the bulk regulations of the particular district are
observed. (1981 Code § 17.52.030)
   C.   Business And Industrial Districts: In the industrial district and in
any business district, any structure permitted in the particular district may
be erected on any vacant nonconforming lot of the type described in subsection
A of this section if the bulk requirements of that district are met. (1981 Code
§ 17.52.040; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Two Or More Lots In Common Ownership: If two (2) or more lots or
combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage were of
record and in common ownership on the effective date hereof, and if one or more
of those lots does not meet the minimum lot width, depth, and area requirements
of the district in which it is located, the land involved shall be considered
an undivided parcel. No portion of any such parcel shall be developed except in
compliance with this title, nor shall any such parcel be divided so as to
create a lot that does not meet the requirements of this title. (1981 Code §
17.52.050)
10-12-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Any lawful structure which exists on the effective date hereof, but which could
not be erected under the terms of this title because of restrictions on lot
size, height, setbacks, or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, may lawfully remain, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Enlargement: No such structure shall be enlarged or altered in any way
which increases its nonconformity.
   B.   Relocation: No such structure shall be relocated unless, after
relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district to which it
is relocated.
   C.   Destruction Or Damage:
      1.   No such structure which is destroyed or damaged by any means shall
be reconstructed if the administrator determines that the cost of such
reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the structure's market value at
the time of loss. The new structure will conform to all then applicable
building codes and regulations of the district in which it is located,
excluding setback requirements. In the event the administrator determines the
estimated cost of reconstruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of the
structure's market value at the time of the loss, repairs or reconstruction
shall be permitted, provided such work starts within six (6) months from the
date the damage occurred and is diligently prosecuted to completion. The
administrator may require that the construction cost estimate be made by a bona
fide construction contractor, and that the structure's market value at the time
of loss be determined by a licensed real estate appraiser. The owner of the
damaged structure shall be responsible for obtaining these estimates for the
administrator.
      2.   In SR-1 district, if a structure is accidentally destroyed or
damaged as stated in subsection C1 of this section, it may be rebuilt using all
current applicable building codes and regulations enacted by the village. The
structure shall be rebuilt only on the same "footprint" of the previous
residence. The owner must obtain a building permit within six (6) months of the
date of the incident and must complete construction or reconstruction within
one year of the incident. (Ord. 895, 12-21-2009)
10-12-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Occupying A Structure: If any lawful use occupying a structure exists
on the effective date hereof but would not be allowed under the terms of this
title, such use may lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Any structure housing a nonconforming use may be maintained through
ordinary repairs.
      2.   No structure housing a nonconforming use shall be enlarged,
structurally altered, reconstructed, or relocated unless the use of the
structure is changed to a permitted use.
      3.   No nonconforming use may be extended to any part(s) of the structure
not intended or designed for such use, nor shall the nonconforming use be
extended to occupy any land outside such structure.
      4.   A nonconforming use occupying a structure shall not be changed
except to a use permitted under the applicable district regulations.
      5.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or of a structure and
premises in combination, is discontinued for twelve (12) consecutive months or
for eighteen (18) months during any three (3) year period, the nonconforming
use shall not thereafter be resumed. Any discontinuance caused by government
action and without any contributing fault by the nonconforming user shall not
be counted in calculating the length of discontinuance. (1981 Code § 17.52.070)
   B.   Uses Of Land: Any lawful use of land existing on the effective date
hereof that would not be permitted under the terms of this title may lawfully
continue, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   A nonconforming use of land shall not be intensified or extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied by such use on the effective
date hereof.
      2.   No nonconforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or in part,
unless such use, upon relocation, will conform to all pertinent regulations of
the district in which it is proposed to be located.
      3.   A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed except to a use
that is permitted under the applicable district regulations.
      4.   When a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a period of
twelve (12) consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be resumed, and any
subsequent use of such land shall conform to the applicable district
regulations. Any discontinuance caused by government action and without any
contributing fault by the owner or operator shall not be counted in calculating
the length of discontinuance. (1981 Code § 17.52.080)
10-12-5: NONCONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY:
The regulations of this chapter shall not apply to any change in an existing
structure or to any change in the use of a structure or of land for which a
permit was issued prior to the effective date hereof, or any pertinent
amendment hereto; provided, that the work authorized by such permit is
completed within a reasonable time. (1981 Code § 17.52.090)
CHAPTER 13
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Scope And Effect
10-13-2: Definitions
10-13-3: Location Within Certain Districts
10-13-4: Additional Standards And Regulations
10-13-5: Grandfathered Structures
10-13-6: Obsolete Facilities
10-13-7: Bond And Fees
10-13-1: SCOPE AND EFFECT:
Telecommunications towers, antennas, and all other facilities associated with
this type of use will be regulated by the requirements contained in this
chapter. The requirements of this chapter supersede any other requirements in
this title. (Ord. 754, 5-15-2000)
10-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
For this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall be defined as provided
in this section:
CO-USE: The location of two (2) or more telecommunications antennas and other
telecommunications devices at a single, preexisting telecommunications
facility.
FREESTANDING: A telecommunications facility that consists of a stand alone
support structure (typically a guyed tower, self- supporting tower or a
monopole), antennas and associated equipment storage shelter.
STEALTH: A telecommunications facility that incorporates antennas and other
telecommunications devices upon existing buildings and/or structures, does not
extend more than twenty feet (20') above the maximum existing structure height,
and is appropriately painted and screened so as to harmonize with the existing
building and/or structure.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An unmanned facility consisting of an equipment
building, shelter or cabinet, accessory equipment and an existing or new
structure to support communications including, but not limited to, paging,
enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR), personal communications services
(PCS), domestic public radio telecommunications services and similar
technologies. (Ord. 754, 5-15-2000)
10-13-3: LOCATION WITHIN CERTAIN DISTRICTS:
Telecommunications facilities will be classified into the use groups for the
districts given below:
   A.   Telecommunications facility, co-use: Permitted by special use in I
districts.
   B.   Telecommunications facility, freestanding: Permitted by special use in
I districts. The facilities are strictly prohibited from all other zoning
districts.
   C.   Telecommunications facility, stealth: Permitted by special use in SR-1,
MR-1, MR-2, B-1, B-2, and I districts.
   D.   Location within a nonresidentially zoned lot is preferred. (Ord. 754,
5-15-2000; amd. 2012 Code)
10-13-4: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
The following additional standards and regulations shall be applied to all
telecommunications facilities:
   A.   All new telecommunications facilities greater than eighty feet (80') in
height shall be constructed of sufficient strength to accommodate the co-use of
at least three (3) providers.
   B.   Towers shall not exceed two hundred feet (200') in height. When
considering a special use permit, the village may consider the height and the
corresponding setbacks in relationship to nearby residential uses.
   C.   Structures other than the tower shall comply with the applicable
setback requirements of that district. Guyed towers shall be set back at least
sixty percent (60%) of the tower height. Support towers and monopoles shall be
set back at least one foot (1') for each two feet (2') of height.
   D.   No part of the telecommunications facility (building or tower) should
encroach onto any recorded easement without the prior written approval of the
easement grantee.
   E.   Encroachment onto an existing septic field is prohibited.
   F.   Placements shall comply with applicable floodplain restrictions.
   G.   Trees in excess of three inches (3") in diameter, measured twenty four
inches (24") from the base, shall be preserved when possible. Any trees meeting
this size requirement and destroyed and removed must be replaced. The applicant
shall file a tree removal/replacement plan.
   H.   All facilities shall be fenced. Facilities located within five hundred
feet (500') of any residential district shall be enclosed with a fence at least
six feet (6') high of the solid screen type. All other facilities shall be
enclosed by a fence at least six feet (6') high and topped by barbed wire.
   I.   Any building that is part of the facility that is located within five
hundred feet (500') of any residential district shall be designed with exterior
materials and colors that are reasonably compatible with the residential
character of the area.
   J.   When considering the impact upon residential areas, the residential
areas of the village, adjacent subdivisions and platted subdivisions shall be
considered.
   K.   Lighting shall be installed for security and safety purposes and, with
the exception of FAA and FCC required lighting, shielded to prevent glare from
extending substantially beyond the boundaries of the facility.
   L.   Co-use is preferred and shall be encouraged by the village. Therefore,
no two (2) telecommunications facilities requiring a special use permit shall
be allowed within one-half (1/2) mile of each other unless the applicant
provides documentation that a co-use or a stealth facility is not possible. The
village reserves the right, at the expense of the applicant, to hire a
qualified independent consultant to verify any findings alleging that a co-use
facility is not possible.
   M.   Applicants for a telecommunications facility must supply the
administrator with five (5) copies of the site plan. These will be distributed
to the appropriate departments and agencies for their review. Public safety co-
use shall be provided on the tower or on the ground at no cost.
   N.   The applicant for the telecommunications facility shall be required to
notify the administrator in its application of those entities contracted for
co-use of the facility. Furthermore, any entity contacted for co-use after
issuance of the special use permit shall be reported to the administrator for
his records. The applicant shall report to the administrator any written
requests received for co-use of space and the special use permit. Failure to do
so within ninety (90) days of said written request shall automatically void the
special use permit.
   O.   The plans for the communications facility shall be signed and sealed by
a qualified licensed professional with an Illinois license or certification. A
professional engineer, structural engineer or architect shall provide this
license or certification.
   P.   All antennas and support structures shall meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the FAA such as FAA part 77 and advisory circular
AC-70/7460-1 and FCC part 17 and any other state or federal agency with
authority to regulate communications antennas, support structures or
telecommunications facilities. Should such standards or regulations be amended,
the owner shall bring such devices into compliance with the revised standards
or regulations at such time any substantive work is done. (Ord. 754, 5-15-2000)
10-13-5: GRANDFATHERED STRUCTURES:
Any telecommunications facility that was existing on April 15, 2000, is
grandfathered under these regulations. Any grandfathered structure that is
modified, has any substantive work done at the facility or will be used as a
co-use facility shall comply with these regulations. Grandfathered facilities
shall also comply with the regulations relating to obsolete facilities. (Ord.
754, 5-15-2000)
10-13-6: OBSOLETE FACILITIES:
Any telecommunications facility that is no longer in use for a communications
purpose permitted under this chapter shall be removed at the owner's expense.
All obsolete and abandoned telecommunications facilities shall be removed
within one year of cessation of use. The owner shall notify the village within
sixty (60) days that a facility is obsolete. (Ord. 754, 5-15-2000)
10-13-7: BOND AND FEES:
   A.   Bond Requirements: The applicant shall provide a bond to the village in
the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or twenty percent (20%) of the
construction costs, whichever is less. This bond shall be kept in full force
during the time the telecommunications facility is in operation and for a
twenty four (24) month period thereafter. The bond shall be conditioned upon:
1) full indemnity to the village should the facility become obsolete and the
owner fails to remove the facility within one year of becoming obsolete; and 2)
demolition of the structure in the event it falls into a state of disrepair.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   The owner of the telecommunications facility shall pay:
         a.   An application fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         b.   The expenses of consultants retained on behalf of the village to
review and advise the village regarding any application.
         c.   The expense of any publication required for an application.
      2.   These fees and expenses are in addition to any other penalty, fee or
expense of the village that may otherwise be applicable. (Ord. 754, 5-15-2000)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Jurisdiction
11-1-3: Interpretation; Application Of Provisions
11-1-4: Disclaimer Of Liability
11-1-5: Separability
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
In accordance with state law 1
, this title regulates the subdivision and development of land in order to
implement the municipal comprehensive community plan and official map. More
specifically, this title is intended to assist in achieving the following
objectives:
   A.   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare;
   B.   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
layout and use of land;
   C.   To avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land be
properly monumented and recorded;
   D.   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements, and buildings
throughout the municipality;
   E.   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the municipality to
the maximum feasible extent;
   F.   To provide adequate light, air, and privacy for all residents and
occupants of new developments by preventing undue concentration of population
and to promote compatible land use;
   G.   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution,
flooding, stormwater runoff, or erosion and sedimentation;
   H.   To help provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to
avoid traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the
proper location, design, and construction of streets and sidewalks;
   I.   To provide for installing and maintaining adequate water mains,
sanitary sewers, stormwater sewers and stormwater management facilities, and
other utilities and services; and
   J.   To ensure that adequate parks, schools, and similar facilities can be
made available to serve the residents of new developments. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 – 5/11-12-12; 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.
11-1-2: JURISDICTION:
This title shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the municipality
and within all unincorporated territory located within one and one-half (1.5)
miles of said limits 1
. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See 65 ILCS 5/11-12-9 for state requirements concerning jurisdictional
  boundary lines.
11-1-3: INTERPRETATION; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Every provision of this title shall be construed liberally in favor of
the municipality, and every regulation set forth herein shall be considered the
minimum requirement for the promotion of the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   B.   Whenever the requirements of this title differ from those of any
statute, lawfully adopted ordinance or regulation, easement, covenant, or deed
restriction, the more stringent requirement shall prevail. Thus, in accordance
with state law 1
, whenever this title imposes higher standards than the county subdivision
ordinance, said higher standards shall supersede the county regulations in the
unincorporated territory located within the municipality subdivision
jurisdiction. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-11.
11-1-4: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent or employee of the municipality shall render
itself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of their duties
under this title 1
.
   B.   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent, or employee
of the municipality, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of their duties under this title, shall be defended by the municipal
attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings. (Ord. 644, 7-
6-1993)
 
Notes
1 3. See local governmental and governmental employees tort immunity act, 745
  ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.
11-1-5: SEPARABILITY:
If any provision of this title is declared unconstitutional or invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity of
the remainder of this title. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this title, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in section
11-2-2 of this chapter; terms not defined in said section
11-2-2 shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in the zoning
ordinance of the municipality; if any term is not defined either in section
11-2-2 of this chapter or in the zoning ordinance, said term shall have its
standard English dictionary meaning.
   B.   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   C.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   D.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   E.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is discretionary.
   F.   The term "municipality" shall mean the village of Roxana, Illinois.
References to municipal officials, for example, municipal attorney, municipal
engineer or municipal planning commission, shall refer to the respective
officers of the village of Roxana, Illinois.
   G.   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches (6") or more shall be deemed one foot (1'). Except, that distances of
measure contained in the municipality's minimum design standards shall take
precedence and govern for facilities to be constructed.
   H.   Captions (i.e., titles of sections, subsections, etc.) are intended
merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the substantive
application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
   I.   References to sections shall be deemed to include all subsections
within that section, but a reference to a particular subsection designates only
that subsection.
   J.   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The official appointed by the president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, to administer this title, or his duly
authorized representative.
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that fronts on a nearby street.
AMENDMENT: A change in the provisions of this title, properly effected in
accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
AREA, GROSS: The entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed for
subdivision and land development, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved
for street and alley rights of way and for public uses.
ARTERIAL STREET: A street designed or utilized primarily for high vehicular
speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with intersections
at grade, and on which electronic traffic control devices are used to expedite
the safe movement of through traffic.
BLOCK: An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers, or ways
(except alleys, pedestrianways, or exterior boundaries of a subdivision or land
development unless the exterior boundary is a street, highway, or way) or
bounded by a combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights
of way, waterways, or corporate boundary lines.
CENTERLINE:
   A.   The centerline of any right of way having a uniform width.
   B.   The original centerline, where a right of way has been widened
irregularly.
   C.   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
CENTERLINE OFFSET: The distance between the centerlines of two (2) roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both said parallel
streets intersect.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries or is proposed to carry intermediate
volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and which may or may
not be continuous.
COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY PLAN: The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the
governing body of the municipality to guide and coordinate the physical and
economic development of the municipality. The comprehensive community plan
includes, but is not limited to, plans and programs regarding the location,
character, and extent of highways, bridges, public buildings or uses,
utilities, schools, residential, commercial or industrial land uses, parks,
drainage facilities, etc.
CROSS SLOPE: The degree of inclination measured across a right of way rather
than in the direction traffic moves on said right of way.
CUL-DE-SAC: A short minor local street having only one outlet for vehicular
traffic and having the other end permanently terminated by a turnaround for
vehicles. The term may also be used to refer solely to said turnaround.
CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL: The rim forming the edge of a street plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of poured concrete as a
single facility.
DEDICATE: To transfer the ownership of a right of way, parcel of land, or
improvements to the municipality or other public entity without compensation.
DEVELOP: To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
DEVELOPMENT: The term shall be used interchangeably with the term subdivision.
DIMENSIONS: Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
DISTRICT, ZONING: A portion of the territory of the municipality wherein
certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots, and uses under the terms of the zoning ordinance.
EASEMENT: A right to use a portion of another person's real property for
certain limited purposes.
ESCROW DEPOSIT: A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure the
completion of improvements within a subdivision.
FRONTAGE: The linear extent of the front (street side) of a lot.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A minor street fronting on an arterial street or highway
(usually a limited access highway), used for access to abutting lots.
GOVERNING BODY: The board of trustees of the municipality.
GRADE: The degree of inclination of the site or right of way, expressed as a
percentage. Synonym for "slope".
IMPROVEMENTS: Any street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, drainage ditch, sanitary
sewer with appurtenances, water main with appurtenances, storm sewer with
appurtenances, drainage facilities, facilities for stormwater management,
public utilities (including, but not limited to, telephone, electrical, and
cable TV), newly planted tree, off street parking area, or other facility
necessary for the general use of the public and property owners in a
subdivision and land development.
IMPROVEMENTS PLANS: The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the structures and facilities to be installed in, or
in conjunction with, a subdivision and/or development, complying with the
minimum design standards.
INTERSECTION: The point at which two (2) or more public rights of way
(generally streets) meet.
LOCAL COLLECTOR STREET: A street used primarily to collect limited amounts of
residential traffic and for access to abutting properties, and on which the
speed limit is low and traffic volume is minimal.
LOCAL STREET: A street serving limited amounts of residential traffic and used
for access to abutting property.
LOT: A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate or
future) of development or transfer of ownership. A "lot" may or may not
coincide with a "lot of record".
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and rear
lines of a lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot having at least two (2) adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD: An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded with the Madison County recorder of deeds, in accordance with state
law.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that abut
two (2) approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines.
MAINTENANCE BOND: A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by the
municipality, guaranteeing the satisfactory conditions of installed
improvements for the two (2) year period following their dedication.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A local street providing access to abutting properties.
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS: The document containing the minimum design standards
adopted by the municipality under this title.
OFFICIAL MAP: A graphic statement of the capital improvements planned by the
municipality which require the acquisition of land, such as and including, but
not limited to, streets, easements and rights of way, sanitary sewers, water
mains, drainage systems, parks, etc.
PERFORMANCE BOND: A surety bond posted by the developer and accepted by the
municipality guaranteeing the installation of required improvements within or
in conjunction with a subdivision.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the municipality.
PLAT, FINAL: The final surveying, engineering, and architectural maps,
drawings, and supporting material indicating the subdivider's plan of the
subdivision which, if accepted by the municipality, may be filed with the
county recorder of deeds. The final plat shall bear the seal and signature of a
current Illinois registered land surveyor, bearing such certifications as
required herein and by other governing bodies and statutes.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: Preliminary surveying, engineering, and architectural maps,
drawings, and supportive materials indicating the proposed layout of a
subdivision.
RESERVE: To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition by
the municipality (or other governmental entity) for public purposes.
RESERVE STRIP: A narrow strip of land between a public street and adjacent lots
which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property deed as land
over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
REVERSE CURVE: A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an S shape.
RIGHT OF WAY, PUBLIC: A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has dedicated
to the municipality for streets, alleys, and other public improvements.
SETBACK, FRONT: The horizontal distance between the street right of way line
and the building line. Minimum setback requirements are set forth in the zoning
ordinance.
SEWERAGE SYSTEM, PRIVATE: A sewer system including collection and treatment
facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision or land
development in an outlying area.
SIDEWALK: A pedestrianway constructed in compliance with the requirements of
the municipality's minimum design standards and this title generally abutting
or near the curb line of the street.
STOP ORDER: An order used by the administrator to halt work in progress that is
in violation of this title.
STREET: A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term "street"
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, cul-de-sac, pike,
avenue, boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but
excludes an alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are structures,
but not all structures are buildings.
STUB STREET: A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is planned for
future continuation.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate or
other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide
land in a manner that constitutes a "subdivision" as defined in this section.
SUBDIVISION: Any division of land into two (2) or more lots, except as set
forth in the plat act, 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/1. This term shall be
used interchangeably with the term development.
TOPOGRAPHY: The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
VACATE: To terminate the legal existence of a right of way or subdivision, and
to so note on the final plat recorded with the Madison County recorder of
deeds.
VARIANCE, SUBDIVISION: A relaxation in the strict application of the design and
improvements standards set forth in this title. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012
Code)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Enforcement Officer Duties
11-3-2: Variances
11-3-3: Amendments
11-3-4: Fees
11-3-5: Correction Action Order; Penalties
11-3-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER DUTIES:
The enforcement officer appointed by the mayor, referred to herein as the
administrator, is hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce the
provisions of this title. This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not
limited to, the following specific duties:
   A.   To review and forward preliminary plats to the planning commission (see
section
11-5-1 of this title);
   B.   To transmit improvements plans to the municipal engineer for its review
(see section
11-5-2 of this title);
   C.   To review and forward final plats to the governing body of the
municipality (see subsection
11-5-4E of this title);
   D.   To issue stop orders as necessary when the municipal engineer
determines that required improvements are being constructed in violation of
this title (see subsection
11-5-2C of this title);
   E.   To pursue actions authorized at subsection
11-5-3G of this title when a developer fails to complete required improvements;
   F.   To evaluate and pass upon proposed changes in accepted final plats (see
subsection
11-5-4G of this title);
   G.   To review and forward application for subdivision variances to the
planning commission (see section
11-3-2 of this chapter);
   H.   To periodically review the provisions of this title to determine
whether revisions are needed and to make recommendations on such matters to the
planning commission as necessary (see section
11-3-3 of this chapter);
   I.   To maintain up to date records of matters pertaining to this title
including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, records of completed
improvements (see subsection
11-5-2D of this title), final plats, variances, and amendments; and
   J.   To provide information to subdividers/developers and to the general
public on matters related to this title. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-3-2: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application For Variance: Any subdivider/developer desiring a variance
from the requirements of this title shall file a written application therefor
with the administrator at the same time that it files its preliminary plat. The
application shall fully explain the grounds for the variance request, and
specify the section(s) of this title which, if strictly applied, would cause
great practical difficulties or hardship. The administrator shall prepare an
advisory report on every variance application and submit it, together with the
completed application, to the planning commission.
   B.   Review By Planning Commission: The planning commission shall review the
variance application and the administrator's comments, and submit their
advisory report to the governing body of the municipality, together with their
recommendation on preliminary plat approval (see subsection
11-5-1C of this title). The planning commission's advisory report shall be
responsive to all the variances standards set forth in subsection C of this
section.
   C.   Action By Governing Body; Standards: At the same meeting at which they
take action on the application for preliminary plat acceptance (see subsection
11-5-1D of this title), the governing body of the municipality shall decide by
ordinance whether to grant or deny the requested subdivision variance. A copy
of its decision, clearly stating its reasons therefor and the exact terms of
any variance granted, shall be attached to both the preliminary and final
plats. The governing body shall not grant any subdivision variance unless,
based upon the information presented to it, it determines that:
      1.   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this title (see section
11-1-1 of this title); and
      2.   Strict application of the subdivision requirements (see chapter 4 of
this title) would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant, not a mere inconvenience; and
      3.   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the subdivision
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship; and
      4.   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his own making; and
      5.   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other tracts, and therefore, a variance would be a more
appropriate remedy than an ordinance amendment; and
      6.   The variance, if granted, will not materially frustrate
implementation of the municipal comprehensive plan including the official map.
(Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-3-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority; Filing Amendment: Amendments to this title and the minimum
design standards may be proposed by the administrator, any member of the
governing body of the municipality, any planning commission member, or any
party in interest. Every amendment proposal shall be filed, in writing, on a
form in the administrator's office. The administrator shall promptly transmit
each proposal, together with any comments or recommendations he may wish to
make, to the municipal planning commission for a public hearing.
   B.   Public Hearing: The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on
every amendment proposal within a reasonable time after said proposal is
submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the
time, date, and place of the hearing and the nature of the proposed amendment
shall be given not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before
the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality.
   C.   Advisory Report; Action By Governing Body: Within thirty (30) days
after the public hearing, the planning commission shall submit an advisory
report to the governing body of the municipality. The governing body shall act
on the proposed amendment at its next regularly scheduled meeting following
submission of this report. Without another public hearing, the governing body
may either pass or reject the proposed amendment or may refer it back to the
planning commission for further consideration. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-3-4: FEES:
All fees indicated in the table below shall be paid to the municipal clerk.
Said fees are intended to defray the administrative costs connected with the
processing/conducting of the listed item. They do not constitute a tax or other
revenue raising device.
Procedure    Fee      
Procedure         Fee      
                          
Filing preliminary plat   $ 500.00
Filing improvements plans 1,000.00
Improvements observation  1,000.00
Filing final plat         300.00
Filing variance request   100.00 each
Filing amendment proposal 100.00 each
 
(Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-3-5: CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER; PENALTIES:
   A.   Corrective Action Order:
      1.   Order Issued; Contents: Whenever the administrator finds, by
inspection or otherwise, that any lot, structure, or use, or work thereon, is
in violation of this title, he may notify the responsible party, and shall
order appropriate corrective action. The order to take corrective action shall
be in writing and shall include:
         a.   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
         b.   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
         c.   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect
compliance;
         d.   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
         e.   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference
with the administrator if he so desires; and
         f.   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the approval of the preliminary or final plat and may
result in the imposition of fines.
      2.   Service Of Order: A corrective action order shall be deemed properly
served upon the owner, occupant, or operator of the offending lot, structure,
or use if it is:
         a.   Served upon him personally;
         b.   Sent by registered mail to his last known address; or
         c.   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
      3.   Stop Order:
         a.   Whenever any work is being done in violation of an initial
certificate of zoning compliance, the administrator's corrective action order
may state that the violation must cease immediately. In such case, the
corrective action order is equivalent to a stop order.
         b.   In the event the alleged violator disagrees with the findings in
the administrator's stop order within five (5) days after the service of the
said stop order, the alleged violator may appeal the said stop order to the
planning commission which shall hold a hearing thereon within fifteen (15)
days, if possible. It is understood that the work on the alleged violation
shall be stopped until the hearing is held, and no further violation shall
occur until after the hearing and ruling of the planning commission.
      4.   Change In Plats: In the event that minor changes are necessary to
the plat, such minor changes may be approved by the administrator following a
written application for such change. Major changes require the filing of a new
plat and complete review. (See subsection
11-5-4G of this title.) (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates any of the terms and conditions of this
title commits an offense and shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation occurs shall be
considered a separate offense.
      2.   Any person who constructs any improvements, or portion thereof in
violation of the terms and conditions of this title commits an offense and
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation occurs shall be
considered a separate offense.
      3.   Any person who shall sell or offer for sale, lease or offer for
lease any lot, block, blocks, resubdivision or any lot or block therein, which
is subject to the terms and conditions of this title, before all of the
requirements of this title have been satisfied, commits an offense and shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to have
been committed for each lot, block, or portion thereof so disposed of, sold,
offered for sale, leased or offered for lease. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012
Code)
   C.   Provisions Cumulative: The remedies and penalties in this section are
cumulative rather than exhaustive. Nothing contained in this section, or other
sections of this title, shall prevent the municipality from taking any lawful
action that may be necessary to secure compliance with the terms and purposes
of this title. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Compliance Required
11-4-2: Suitability Of Land For Subdivision
11-4-3: Lot Requirements
11-4-4: Reference Monuments
11-4-5: Street Design Standards
11-4-6: Street Improvements Standards
11-4-7: Blocks
11-4-8: Sidewalks
11-4-9: Streetlights
11-4-10: Street Name Signs
11-4-11: Utilities
11-4-12: Water Facilities
11-4-13: Sewer System
11-4-14: Drainage And Storm Sewers
11-4-15: Erosion And Sedimentation Control
11-4-16: Dedication Or Reservation Of Land For Public Use
11-4-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   No land within the subdivision jurisdiction of the municipality, other
than land that is specifically exempted from the requirements of the Illinois
plat act 1
, shall be subdivided or developed except in compliance with the regulations of
this article and the applicable provisions of state law 2
. No lot in any subdivision shall be conveyed until:
      1.   The final plat of said subdivision has been accepted and signed by
the governing body of the municipality and recorded in the office of the county
recorder of deeds; and
      2.   The portion of said subdivision in which the lot is located has been
improved in accordance with the requirements of this chapter or until a
performance bond or other security has been posted to assure the completion of
such improvements.
   B.   The administrator shall not issue a building permit for any lot
conveyed in violation of this section. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8, 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.
11-4-2: SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION:
Land that is unsuitable for development due to flooding, poor drainage, rough
topography, adverse soil conditions, or other features which will be harmful to
the health, safety, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the subdivision
and/or its surrounding areas shall not be subdivided or developed unless the
subdivider/developer formulates adequate plans/methods to solve the problems
caused by the adverse land conditions. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-3: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    All lots in a subdivision shall conform to the minimum lot area and
dimension requirements of the zoning district in which said subdivision is
located; land that is under water or reserved for street improvements shall not
be counted to satisfy these minimum requirements. Every corner and through lot
shall be large enough to permit compliance with the district's front setback
requirements on every side of the lot that faces a street. All lot remnants
shall be added to adjacent lots to avoid the creation of unbuildable parcels.
All lots shall contain adequate space for required off street parking and
loading.
   B.   Land shall be subdivided in such a way that each lot abuts a street
meeting the requirements of the minimum design standards. All side lot lines
shall be at right angles to straight street right of way lines or radial to
curved street right of way lines except where a deviation from this rule will
provide a better street and lot design. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-4: REFERENCE MONUMENTS:
Stone or reinforced concrete reference monuments, set in the ground in such a
manner that they will not be moved by frost, shall be placed in the field in
accordance with the plat act, as now or hereafter amended 1
. All lot corners shall be marked by one-half inch (0.5") iron pins not less
than twenty four inches (24") long. These pins shall be driven into the ground
deep enough that they do not protrude above the ground surface. (Ord. 644, 7-6-
1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.
11-4-5: STREET DESIGN STANDARDS:
All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed street
system indicated in the municipal comprehensive plan, and shall meet the
requirements of the minimum design standards.
   A.   Topographical Considerations: Grades of streets shall conform as
closely as possible to the natural topography, but shall not exceed the maximum
grade nor be less than the minimum grade indicated in the minimum design
standards. All streets shall be arranged so that as many as possible of the
building sites are at or above street grade.
   B.   Through Traffic Discouraged: Marginal access and local streets shall be
laid out so as to discourage use by through traffic. The rigid rectangular
gridiron street pattern shall be avoided, and the use of curvilinear streets,
cul-de-sacs, or U-shaped streets shall be encouraged to effect a more desirable
street layout.
   C.   Limited Access To Arterials: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the planning commission may recommend to
the governing body of the municipality that access to said arterial be limited
by one of the following means:
      1.   The subdivision of lots so that they back onto the arterial street
and front onto a parallel local street (double frontage lots), coupled with the
installation of screening in a reserve (access restricting) strip along the
rear lot lines of such lots;
      2.   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered
from and generally at right angles to the arterial street, with the rear lot
lines of the lots at the termini of such streets backing onto the arterial; or
      3.   A frontage road separated from the arterial street by a planting
strip, but having access thereto at suitable points.
   D.   Dead End Streets:
      1.   Temporary Stub Streets: Streets shall be so arranged to provide for
the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
and police protection, and efficient provision of utilities, and where such
continuation comports with the municipal comprehensive plan. If the adjacent
property is undeveloped and the street must dead end temporarily, the right of
way shall be extended to the property line, and no strip that would prevent
connections with future streets shall be reserved. A temporary turnabout shall
be provided at the terminus of any temporary dead end street.
      2.   Permanent Dead End Streets:
         a. For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police and
fire protection, permanent dead end streets shall be limited to five hundred
feet (500') in length.
         b. The terminus of a permanent dead end street shall not be closer
than fifty feet (50') to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A cul-de-sac
turnaround having a minimum right of way radius of fifty four feet (54') and a
minimum pavement radius of forty two feet (42') shall be provided at the end of
every permanent dead end street. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
   E.   Alleys: Alleys shall be prohibited in single-family residence
districts. Alleys may be required in multiple-family districts and in business/
industrial districts unless other adequate provisions for service access are
made. When required or provided, alleys shall be at least twenty feet (20')
wide, and shall be paved in accordance with the minimum design standards.
Alleys normally shall not intersect with one another nor change sharply in
alignment. Adequate vehicular turnaround space shall be provided at the
terminus of any dead end alley. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   F.   Intersections:
      1.   Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point.
      2.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. In no case shall two (2) streets intersect at an angle of less
than seventy five degrees (75°). An oblique street shall be curved approaching
an intersection and shall be approximately at right angles with said
intersection for at least one hundred feet (100') therefrom.
      3.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
one hundred fifty feet (150') shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has divided lanes without median breaks at either
intersection. Intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall be at
least eight hundred feet (800') apart.
      4.   To permit safe vehicular movement at corners, the minimum curb
radius at the intersection of two (2) streets shall be as indicated in the
minimum design standards and as required for each specific zoning district.
(Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
      5.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation on a triangular area, the developer shall cut such ground and/or
vegetation (including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right
of way to the extent necessary to provide an adequate sight distance. (Ord.
644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   G.   Reverse Curves: A tangent at least one hundred feet (100') long shall
be introduced between reverse curves on local collector and collector streets.
   H.   Improvements To Existing Streets: Whenever any subdivision abuts an
existing street that is narrower than the requirements indicated in the minimum
design standards, the subdivider shall dedicate sufficient right of way on the
side abutting the subdivision to permit compliance with those requirements. The
developer shall improve said street to the requirements imposed in the minimum
design standards, and shall pay one-half (1/2) the cost of said improvements.
   I.   Excess Right Of Way Required: Right of way width in excess of the
requirements set forth in the minimum design standards shall be required where:
      1.   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide adequate
earth slopes or drainage appurtenances; or
      2.   Due to the location of railroad tracks, additional width is needed
to construct overpasses, underpasses, and approaches thereto. (Ord. 644, 7-6-
1993)
11-4-6: STREET IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS:
All new streets shall be graded, curbed, and surfaced in accordance with the
minimum design standards and the minimum provisions of this section.
   A.   Curb And Gutter: All streets shall be bounded by integral concrete curb
and gutter in conformity with the requirements of the minimum design standards.
   B.   Pavement: All streets and alleys shall be paved as indicated in the
minimum design standards, or more stringent standards that may be imposed by
the township, county, or state having jurisdiction over the improvement. (Ord.
644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-7: BLOCKS:
   A.   Width: Blocks shall be sufficiently wide to accommodate two (2) tiers
of lots having the minimum depth required by the zoning district regulations;
provided, that this requirement may be waived in blocks adjacent to local
collector or collector streets, railroads, or watercourses.
   B.   Length: No block shall be longer than one thousand four hundred feet
(1,400') nor shorter than five hundred feet (500'), topography permitting.
Wherever practicable, blocks along collector streets shall be not less than one
thousand feet (1,000') in length.
   C.   Crosswalks: Crosswalks not less than ten feet (10') wide may be
required through the center of blocks more than one thousand feet (1,000') long
where necessary to provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds,
shopping centers, transportation, or other community facilities. (Ord. 644, 7-
6-1993)
11-4-8: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Required: Sidewalks complying with the requirements of the minimum
design standards shall be provided:
      1.   On at least one side of the street, when residential density is
between two (2.0) and four (4.0) dwelling units per net acre;
      2.   On both sides of the street, when residential density is four (4.0)
or more dwelling units per net acre; and
      3.   Along collector streets, near schools, and in shopping areas and
similar public places; and (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
      4.   On both sides of the street in business and industrial zoning
districts. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Construction Standards:
      1.   The street side edge of every sidewalk shall be located at least six
feet (6') from the curb.
      2.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet (4') wide.
Nonresidential sidewalks shall be at least five feet (5') wide.
      3.   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete in accordance with
the minimum design standards.
      4.   No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than eight
percent (8%). (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
      5.   Curbs shall be cut and sidewalks shall be ramped at all
intersections so as to enhance the mobility of persons with disabilities. (Ord.
644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
11-4-9: STREETLIGHTS:
   A.   Required; Location: Streetlights shall be provided at each intersection
of streets (or alleys) within a subdivision and at each cul-de-sac, but in no
event shall there be less than one streetlight per four hundred feet (400') (or
portion thereof) of street frontage between intersections, or between a street
intersection and the terminus of a dead end street. Additionally, in multi-
family dwelling, business, and manufacturing or industrial zoning districts,
lighting shall be provided within parking areas at a minimum rate of one light
per twenty five (25) parking spaces or any fraction thereof. (Ord. 644, 7-6-
1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Standards:
      1.   The design and installation of the streetlight system in every
subdivision shall be reviewed by the municipal engineer, the appropriate
electric utility company, and the chief officer of the appropriate street
lighting district (if any).
      2.   The lighting intensity of each streetlight shall be equivalent, at a
minimum, to a one hundred seventy five (175) watt lamp or 6800 mercury
luminaire lamp. Each streetlight standard (post) shall be at least sixteen feet
(16') high. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-10: STREET NAME SIGNS:
Street name signs of the size, height, and type accepted by the municipality
shall be placed by the developer at all intersections within or abutting any
subdivision. Street names shall be sufficiently different in sound and spelling
from other street names in the municipality so as to avoid confusion. A street
which is planned as a continuation of an existing street shall bear the same
name. The subdivider/developer shall purchase street signs from the
municipality for purposes of standardization, and shall bear all costs of
installing the street name signs. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-11: UTILITIES:
   A.   Underground Utilities: All utility facilities, including gas, electric
power, telephone, and CATV cables, shall be located underground throughout the
subdivision. Underground service connections to the property line of each
platted lot shall be installed at the subdivider's expense; provided, that on
the recommendation of the planning commission, the requirement for service
connections to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be
retained in single ownership.
   B.   Utility Easements: Easements at least fifteen feet (15') wide shall be
provided for public and private utilities. Said easements shall be centered on
rear lot lines except where they must be located along side lot lines due to
topographical or other conditions. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-12: WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   Water Supply: An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided to
every platted lot in accordance with Illinois environmental protection agency
regulations, by interconnecting with the municipality's public water supply
system. The water system shall comply with the requirements of the minimum
design standards.
   B.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants of the type indicated in the minimum
design standards shall be installed in every subdivision as part of the water
distribution system. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-13: SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   Compliance Required: All proposed sanitary sewer facilities shall
comply with the regulations of the Illinois environmental protection agency and
the minimum design standards.
   B.   Connection To Public System: Whenever the public sanitary sewerage
system is located within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subdivision or
development, the subdivider/developer shall extend said system throughout the
subdivision, and shall provide each lot with a connection thereto.
   C.   Planned Public System; Use Of Private System: In areas where the public
sanitary sewerage system is not reasonably accessible but where plans for the
installation of said system have been submitted to the Illinois environmental
protection agency and/or county department of public health, the developer
shall provide sanitary sewers in accordance with such plans and temporarily cap
them. To serve the subdivision until the time when connection to the public
system becomes practicable, a private central sewage disposal system shall be
installed, or in the case of subdivisions containing not more than ten (10)
lots, individual sewage disposal systems may be used.
   D.   Individual Sewage Systems: Individual sewage disposal facilities, such
as septic tanks, shall not be installed in any subdivision containing more than
ten (10) lots as shown on the final plat or as subsequently developed. Where
individual disposal facilities are permitted, the minimum lot size shall be one
acre. Individual disposal systems shall comply with the requirements indicated
in the minimum design standards.
   E.   Sanitary Sewer Easements: Sanitary sewer easements shall be provided
along the rear lot lines of every platted lot. The precise location and minimum
widths of said easements shall be determined by the municipal engineer. (Ord.
644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-14: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   General Requirements: The planning commission shall not recommend the
acceptance of any plat unless, after consultation with the municipal engineer,
they determine that the proposed provisions for stormwater drainage are
adequate. Drainage improvements in the subdivision shall be coordinated with
existing and planned drainage improvements elsewhere so as to form an
integrated municipal system. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate
and independent of the sanitary sewer system. The storm drainage facilities
shall comply with the requirements indicated in the minimum design standards.
   B.   Manholes, Inlets And Catch Basins: Manholes, inlets, and catch basins,
if required, shall be constructed to the specifications indicated in the
minimum design standards, so that surface water is not carried across or around
any intersection, or for a distance of more than two hundred fifty feet (250')
in the gutter.
   C.   Accommodation Of Upstream Drainage Areas: A culvert or other drainage
facility large enough to accommodate potential runoff from the entire drainage
area upstream from the proposed subdivision shall be provided in accordance
with the minimum design standards. Potential runoff shall be determined on the
basis of the maximum development of the upstream area that is permitted under
the zoning district regulations.
   D.   Effect On Downstream Areas: The subdivider/developer and municipal
engineer shall also consider the effect of any proposed subdivision on
downstream areas. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff or
increased rate of runoff incident to development of the subdivision will
overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the governing body of the
municipality shall require the developer to install additional drainage
improvements to alleviate the overload problem and/or stormwater management
facilities required in the minimum design standards.
   E.   Partial Compensation For Oversize Improvements: The governing body of
the municipality, with the assistance of the municipal attorney, shall make
satisfactory arrangements to compensate the developer for any portion of the
cost of oversize drainage improvements that is not attributable solely to the
subdivision in question. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
   F.   Areas Subject To Flooding: It is the policy of the governing body of
the municipality to discourage subdivisions and developments in areas subject
to flooding, including during the 100-year stage recurrence interval. Whenever
a plat is submitted for an area that is subject to flooding, the governing body
of the municipality will require appropriate protective measures, which
measures shall meet the requirements of the Illinois department of natural
resources, office of water resources, and corps of engineers, and other
jurisdictional agencies. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   G.   Drainage Easements: Adequate easements for stormwater drainage shall be
established along any natural or new drainage channel and in any other
locations where necessary to provide satisfactory disposal of stormwater from
streets, alleys, and all other portions of the subdivision. The precise
location and minimum widths of said easements shall be reviewed and accepted by
the municipal engineer. The owner of the lot or tract where drainage easements
are located shall be responsible for continuing and proper maintenance of the
drainageway within the limits of the easement. This requirement shall be
clearly indicated on the final plat as a covenant for acceptance of the
subdivision by the municipality. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-4-15: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL:
In the development of any subdivision, there shall be compliance with the
requirements of the minimum design standards and the following erosion and
sedimentation control regulations:
   A.   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented by
topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
   B.   Large trees (those having a diameter of 4 inches or more when measured
12 inches above the ground) shall be retained and protected to the maximum
extent consistent with development of the site.
   C.   Land shall be developed in the smallest increments of workable size so
that adequate erosion and sediment controls can be provided and coordinated
with ongoing construction work. When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for
the shortest feasible period of time.
   D.   Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate, mulching or other nonviable
cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during development.
   E.   Adequate provisions shall be made to effectively accommodate the
increased runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions both during and
after development. Appropriate devices, such as sediment basins, debris basins,
desilting basins, or silt traps, shall be installed and maintained to remove
sediment from surface waters leaving the development.
   F.   No development shall be occupied until:
      1.   Grading has been completed in accordance with the minimum design
standards and accepted improvement plans; and
      2.    At least four inches (4") of topsoil equal in quality to the soil
that was on site prior to development has been spread over each lot. (Ord. 644,
7-6-1993)
11-4-16: DEDICATION OR RESERVATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Dedications: The governing body of the municipality may require the
developer to dedicate (i.e., to transfer without compensation) to the
municipality or other appropriate governmental entity suitable parcel(s) of
land within the subdivision for parks, playgrounds, schools, or other public
purposes, provided the need for such facilities is uniquely and specifically
attributable to said subdivision. Any such dedicated area shall be shown on the
final plat.
   B.   Reservations:
      1.   Instead of or in addition to requiring the developer to dedicate
parcels, the governing body of the municipality may require that the developer
reserve land for parks, playgrounds, schools, or other public purposes in
locations designated in the municipal comprehensive plan. Since public
acquisition of reserved land requires compensation, it is not essential that
the need for such land be uniquely and specifically attributable to the
subdivision 1
. This requirement of reservation for public use shall always be a requirement
considered in the light of the statutory requirements in force now or as later
amended.
      2.   The municipality (or other governmental entity) must take action to
purchase or condemn any land reserved for public purposes within twelve (12)
months from the date of final plat approval. Failure to initiate such action
within the prescribed time limit shall result in removal of the reservation and
the consequent freeing of the property for other permitted development. (Ord.
644, 7-6-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8.
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PLANS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Preliminary Plat
11-5-2: Improvements Plans
11-5-3: Assurance For Completion Of Improvements
11-5-4: Final Plat
11-5-5: Maintenance Of Improvements
11-5-6: Vacation Of Plats
11-5-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Filing Preliminary Plat; Review:
      1.   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this chapter, every
person who proposes to subdivide any land located within the subdivision
jurisdiction of the municipality shall file four (4) copies of the preliminary
plat of said subdivision with the administrator.
      2.   The subdivider shall also file one copy of the preliminary plat and
supporting data with the appropriate soil and water conservation district. Said
district shall have not more than thirty (30) days to submit any comments it
might wish to make to the planning commission 1
.
      3.   Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a
portion of that tract is to be submitted for final plat acceptance,
nonetheless, a preliminary plat of the entire tract shall be submitted.
      4.   All preliminary plats shall be reviewed and acted upon in accordance
with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-12-8 and the provisions of this
section.
   B.   Information Required: Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a
land surveyor currently registered in Illinois at any scale necessary for
clarity, provided the resultant drawing does not exceed twenty four inches by
thirty six inches (24" x 36"). Said preliminary plat, together with the
supporting data, shall provide all of the following information:
      1.   Names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider (if not
the owner), and the Illinois registered land surveyor;
      2.   Proposed name of the subdivision;
      3.   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided;
      4.   North arrow (preferably up or to the right on the drawing), graphic
scale, and date of map;
      5.   Dimensions of the tract and its gross area, lot lines, block
numbers, and sequential lot numbers;
      6.   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by one foot
(1') contour data for land having slopes of zero percent (0%) to four percent
(4%), two foot (2') contour data for land having slopes between four percent
(4%) to twelve percent (12%), and five foot (5') contour data for land having
slopes of twelve percent (12%) or more; spot elevations for breaks in grade;
      7.   Locations of such features as bodies of water, ponding areas,
natural drainageways, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks, schools, wooded
areas, preservable trees, and buildings on adjacent areas;
      8.   Locations and rights of way widths of all existing and proposed
streets and alleys;
      9.   Locations, widths, and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements with identification of easement purpose and use;
      10.   Description of all proposed deed restrictions and covenants,
including compliance with requirements for maintenance of drainage easements
set forth herein; (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
      11.   Locations and size of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm
sewers with appurtenances (including, but not limited to, stormwater management
facilities), and water mains; (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
      12.   Locations, types, and approximate sizes of all other existing and
proposed utilities;
      13.   Locations, dimensions, and areas of all parcels to be reserved or
dedicated for schools, parks/playgrounds, and other public purposes;
      14.   Locations, dimensions, and areas of all proposed or existing lots
within the subdivision; and
      15.   A preliminary title opinion on the subdivision.
   C.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission shall either accept
or not accept the application for preliminary plat acceptance within ninety
(90) days from the date of said application or the filing of the last item of
required supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the planning
commission and the subdivider mutually agree to extend this time limit 2
. If the planning commission does not accept the preliminary plat, they shall
furnish to the applicant within the ninety (90) day period a written statement
specifying the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to this
title and/or the official map. If the planning commission accepts the
preliminary plat, they shall promptly so inform the governing body of the
municipality.
   D.   Governing Body Action: If the planning commission has accepted a
preliminary plat, the governing body of the municipality, by resolution, shall
either accept or reject said plat within thirty (30) days after their next
regularly scheduled meeting following the planning commission's action. If the
governing body of the municipality rejects the preliminary plat, its resolution
shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to comply with this title
and/or the official map. The municipal clerk shall attach a certified copy of
the municipality's resolution of acceptance or disapproval to the preliminary
plat. One copy of the resolution and plat shall be retained by the clerk, one
copy shall be filed with the administrator, and one shall be given to the
subdivider. Acceptance by the governing body of the municipality shall not
qualify a preliminary plat for recording. The time limits set forth herein
shall always be in compliance with the statutory requirements or any amendments
hereinafter made.
   E.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to: (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
      1.   "Minor subdivisions" which term is defined as any division of land
of any size of any parcel; or (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Land that is specifically exempted from the Illinois plat act, as
now or hereafter amended 3
. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 70 ILCS 405/22.02a.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8.
3 2. 765 ILCS 205/1(b).
11-5-2: IMPROVEMENTS PLANS:
   A.   Plans And Compliance Required: After the governing body of the
municipality has accepted the preliminary plat, but prior to submission of the
final plat, the subdivider shall furnish four (4) copies of the plans and
specifications for all improvements to be installed within or in conjunction
with the proposed subdivision to the administrator for review by the municipal
engineer. These plans and specifications shall be signed and sealed by an
Illinois registered professional engineer responsible for their preparation.
Until the municipal engineer confirms, in writing, that the proposed
improvements conform to generally accepted engineering practices and to the
standards imposed in this title and in the minimum design standards:
      1.   The administrator shall not issue any building permit to allow
construction of said improvements; and
      2.   The governing body of the municipality shall not act upon the
application for final plat acceptance.
   B.   Information Required: Plans for required improvements shall consist of
black or blue line prints twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
These plans and the related specifications shall provide all of the following
information:
      1.   Topography of the tract, both before and after development, at the
same scale as required in the preliminary plat;
      2.   Existing and proposed elevations along the centerlines of all
streets;
      3.   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets;
      4.   Locations and typical cross section of street pavements including
curbs/gutters and catch basins;
      5.   Locations and typical cross section of sidewalks and driveway
aprons;
      6.   Locations, sizes, and invert elevations of all existing and proposed
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and related facilities (including, but not
limited to, drainageways and stormwater management facilities), and water
mains, showing connections to any existing or proposed utility systems;
      7.    Locations and sizes of all water, gas, electric, and other
utilities;
      8.   Locations of street lighting standards and street signs;
      9.   Locations of all trees having a diameter of four inches (4") or more
when measured twelve inches (12") above the ground;
      10.   All proposed measures to control erosion and sedimentation;
      11.   High water elevations of all lakes/streams adjoining or within the
tract;
      12.   Information required by and to demonstrate compliance with the
minimum design standards; and
      13.   Such other information as the municipal engineer may reasonably
require to perform his duties under this section.
   C.   Construction Notices; Observations:
      1.   The subdivider/developer shall notify the administrator,
superintendent of streets, superintendent of water, superintendent of sewers,
and the municipal engineer of both the start and completion of construction of
improvements.
      2.   The municipal engineer, administrator, and/or superintendent of
streets, superintendent of water and superintendent of sewers shall observe
said improvements while they are under construction. If any of these municipal
representatives determines that they are being built in violation of this
title, they shall promptly notify the administrator who, in turn, shall issue a
stop order. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
      3.   The municipal engineer or other individual designated by the village
shall also observe improvements upon their completion. The municipality shall
not accept any completed improvement until the municipal engineer has certified
that it complies with this title. The municipal engineer shall not issue
certification until the requirements of the minimum design standards have been
met and satisfied and the engineer for the developer also certifies completion
as being in compliance with the plans and specifications. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993;
amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Filing Record Drawings: Upon the completion of specified improvements,
the subdivider/developer shall file with the administrator a set of
reproducible polyester base film positives showing the record details of all
improvements and any deviations from the accepted plans, and as required by the
minimum design standards. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-5-3: ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: The governing body of the municipality shall not
accept any final plat of subdivision (and hence, said final plat shall not be
entitled to recording) until the requirements set forth in this section and in
the minimum design standards have been met. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012
Code)
      1.   All improvements required in the accepted improvements plan have
been completed by the subdivider/developer at its expense, observed by the
municipal engineer, administrator, superintendent of streets, superintendent of
water, and superintendent of sewers, and dedicated to the municipality or other
appropriate entity; or
      2.   In accordance with subsections B through G of this section, the
subdivider/developer has provided the municipality with legal assurance to
guarantee the satisfactory completion and dedication of all required
improvements.
   B.   Forms Of Assurance: At the option of the governing body of the
municipality, the required legal assurance may be either a performance bond or
an escrow deposit. Every performance bond shall be reviewed by the municipal
attorney and posted with the municipal clerk. Any funds to be held in escrow
shall be deposited with the municipal treasurer.
   C.   Amount Of Bond Or Deposit: The amount of the performance bond or escrow
deposit shall be equal to the municipal engineer's estimate of the costs of
construction for the uncompleted portion of the required improvements, plus all
required observation fees. Any escrow deposit may be in the form of:
      1.   Cash;
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a lending
institution guaranteeing to the municipality the availability of the escrow
funds from time to time upon demand; or
      3.   Certificates of deposit, treasury bills, or other readily negotiable
instruments acceptable to the municipal treasurer and made payable to the
municipality.
   D.   Eligible Sureties: No person shall be eligible to act as surety unless
he has been approved by the municipal treasurer. The treasurer shall conduct or
cause to be conducted spot audits of all sureties at the expense of the
applicant. Any surety who fails to perform shall be ineligible for two (2)
years thereafter to act as surety for any subdivision improvement within the
municipality's jurisdiction.
   E.   Term Of Assurance; Extension: The initial term of any performance bond
or escrow agreement shall not exceed two (2) years. If all the required
improvements have not been completed by the end of the initial eighteen (18)
month period, the administrator, with the advice and consent of the governing
body of the municipality, may either extend said bond/escrow agreement for one
year only, or may proceed in accord with subsection G of this section. (Ord.
644, 7-6-1993)
   F.   Release Of Bond/Escrow Deposit:
      1.   The municipal treasurer may release up to ninety percent (90%) of
the amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit upon receipt of written
notice from the municipal engineer or public works director. The amount which
the municipal engineer or public works director authorizes to be released shall
be equal to the value of improvements actually completed in accordance with the
accepted improvements plans, minus ten percent (10%) retainage to provide for
construction remaining.
      2.   The balance of the amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit
shall not be released until:
         a. The municipal engineer has certified to the public works director,
in writing, that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed;
and
         b. Said improvements have been accepted by and dedicated to the
municipality or other appropriate entity.
   G.   Failure To Complete Improvements: If all the required improvements have
not been completed by the end of the two (2) year period (or 3 year period, in
the case of an extension), the public works director, with the assistance of
the municipal attorney, may:
      1.   Proceed with completing all necessary improvements as per plans and
documents submitted to the village for the initial development, and the
developer shall pay to the village the cost of completing the required
improvements (as estimated by the municipal engineer) or the amount of the bond
not theretofore released, whichever is less; or (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012
Code)
      2.   Order the municipal treasurer to retain all escrowed funds needed to
complete the required improvements, and to return the balance (if any) of such
funds to the subdivider/developer; or
      3.   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new performance bond/
escrow deposit in an amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of
constructing the required improvements. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-5-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Acceptance And Recording Of Final Plat: The county recorder of deeds
shall not record any final plat of a subdivision located within the subdivision
jurisdiction of the municipality until said final plat has been accepted by the
governing body of the municipality. The governing body shall not accept any
final plat unless it determines that it is in compliance with all pertinent
requirements of this title including those set forth in the minimum design
standards and this section.
   B.   Filing Final Plat: The subdivider of every subdivision, whether major
or minor, but excluding land specifically exempted from the Illinois plat act,
as now or hereafter amended 1
, who desires final plat approval shall file four (4) copies of the final plat
and supporting data with the administrator not later than one year after
preliminary plat approval has been granted. However, with the consent of the
governing body of the municipality, the subdivider may delay application for
final acceptance of part(s) of the tract shown on the preliminary plat for
successive one year periods.
   C.   Information Required: Every final plat shall be prepared by a current
Illinois registered land surveyor on new polyester base film with waterproof
black ink at a scale not greater than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100'); provided, that the resultant drawing shall not exceed twenty four inches
by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). The final plat and supporting data shall
portray/provide all of the following information:
      1.   North arrow (it is preferable that north be up or to the right on
the drawing), graphic scale, and date;
      2.   Name of the subdivider;
      3.   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of the
tract;
      4.   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot (1') in ten thousand feet (10,000');
      5.   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land by record
name, plat book, and page number;
      6.   Accurate locations of all existing streets intersecting the
boundaries of the subdivision;
      7.   Right of way lines of all streets, other rights of way, easements
with identification of purpose and use, and lot lines with accurate dimensions,
angles, or bearings, and curve data, including radii, arcs or chords, points of
tangency, and central angles;
      8.   Name and right of way width of every proposed street;
      9.   Purpose of any existing or proposed easement;
      10.   Number of each lot, lot dimensions, and (in a separate list) lot
areas;
      11.   Purpose(s) for which sites, other than private lots, are reserved;
      12.   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions; and
      13.   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds of lots.
   D.   Certificates Required: As required by state law 2
, the following certificates, or any certificates that may be required by state
statute, shall be executed on the final plat;
      1.   Owner's Certificate:
    Owner's Certificate
We,           , the owners of ( description ), have caused the said tract to be
surveyed and subdivided in the manner shown, and said subdivision is to be
hereinafter known as            . All rights-of-way and easements shown hereon
are hereby dedicated to the use of the public forever including the release and
waiver of the right of homestead under the Homestead Exemption laws of the
State of Illinois.
Dated this      day of      , 20  .
                      (Seal)
                      (Seal)
      2.   Notary Public's Certificate:
   Notary Public's Certificate
State of Illinois      )
            ) SS
County of                )
I,             , a Notary Public in and for the County aforesaid, do hereby
certify that  (owners)  are personally known to me to be the same persons whose
names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and that they appeared before
me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and sealed the same as
their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth,
including the release of waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this      day of       , 20  .
                               
Notary Public
      3.   Surveyor's Certificate:
   Surveyor's Certificate
I,               , a currently Registered Illinois Land Surveyor, do hereby
certify that this plat is a correct representation of a survey made under my
direct supervision at the request of          for the purpose of subdividing
the tract into lots as shown.
                               
Illinois Land Surveyor
              
Registration Number
              
Date
      4.   County Clerk's Certificate:
   County Clerk's Certificate
I,              , County Clerk of        County, Illinois, do hereby certify
that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against any of the real estate
included within this plat.
                                
County Clerk
               
Date
      5.   Certificate Of Board Of Trustees:
   Certificate Of Board Of Trustees
I,               , President of the municipality of Roxana, do hereby certify
that the plat shown hereon was duly presented to the Board of Trustees and
accepted at a meeting of same held on         , 20    .
                               
President
Attest:                        
Municipal Clerk
      6.   Flood Hazard Certificate:
   Flood Hazard Certificate
We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that to the best of our knowledge and
belief the drainage of surface waters will not be changed by the construction
of this subdivision or any part thereof, or, that if such surface water
drainage will be changed, reasonable provisions have been made for collection
and diversion of such surface waters into public areas, and that such surface
waters have been planned for in accordance with generally accepted engineering
practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining property
because of the construction of this subdivision.
By                              
Owner(s)
By                              
Illinois Registered Professional Engineer
              
Registration Number
              
Date
   E.   Administrative Review; Advisory Report: Within thirty (30) days from
the date of application for final plat acceptance, the municipal engineer and
the administrator shall review said final plat (and supporting data) and shall
jointly advise the governing body of the municipality, in writing, whether it
substantially conforms to the accepted preliminary plat. A copy of their
advisory report shall be forwarded to the planning commission.
   F.   Governing Body Action:
      1.   The governing body of the municipality shall either accept or not
accept the application for final plat acceptance by resolution within sixty
(60) days from the date of said application or the filing of the last item of
required supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the governing body
and the subdivider mutually agree to extend this time limit 3
. The governing body of the municipality shall not accept any final plat
unless:
         a. The final plat substantially conforms to the accepted preliminary
plat; and
         b. The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design and
improvement standards of this title, the minimum design standards, and the
official map; and
         c. To the governing body's knowledge and belief, the final plat
complies with all pertinent requirements of state law; and
         d. Either of the following has been met:
            (1) All required improvements have been completed, observed,
accepted, and dedicated; or
            (2) The subdivider/developer has posted a performance bond or
deposited funds in escrow to guarantee the satisfactory completion and
dedication of all required improvements.
      2.   If the governing body does not accept the final plat, their
resolution shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the
conditions of subsection F1 of this section for acceptance.
      3.   The municipal clerk shall attach a certified copy of the governing
body's resolution of acceptance or nonacceptance to the final plat. One copy of
the resolution and plat shall be retained by the clerk, one copy shall be filed
with the administrator, and one copy shall be given to the subdivider.
   G.   Changes In Accepted Final Plats: Once a final plat is accepted by the
governing body of the municipality, it shall not thereafter be modified;
provided, however, that minor changes may be made upon written application to
the administrator. Major changes require the filing of a new final plat and
complete rereview. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/1.
2 1. 765 ILCS 205/2, 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8.
3 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8.
11-5-5: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The subdivider/developer shall maintain all the improvements in the
subdivision until they have been accepted by and dedicated to the municipality.
(Ord. 644, 7-6-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Prior to dedication, the subdivider/developer shall post a maintenance
bond with the municipal clerk in the form accepted by the municipal attorney.
Said bond shall be in the amount determined by the municipal engineer to be
sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required improvements
for a period of two (2) years from the date of their acceptance and dedication.
If, at any time during the two (2) year period, the improvements are found to
be defective, they shall be repaired/replaced at the subdivider/developer's
expense. If the subdivider/developer fails or refuses to pay such costs within
ninety (90) days after demand is made thereon by the administrator, the
municipality shall use the maintenance bond to make the necessary repairs/
replacement. If the cost of repairs/replacement exceeds the bond amount, the
subdivider/developer shall be liable for the excess. At the end of the two (2)
year period, the maintenance bond shall be released. (Ord. 644, 7-6-1993)
11-5-6: VACATION OF PLATS:
In accordance with state law 1
, any plat or part thereof may be vacated by the owner of the tract at any time
before the sale of any lot therein by a written vacation instrument to which a
copy of the plat is attached. If there are public service facilities in any
street, other public way, or easement shown on said plat, the instrument shall
reserve to the municipality or other public entity or public utility owning
such facilities the property, rights of way, and easements necessary for
continuing public service by means of those facilities and for maintaining or
reconstructing the same. The vacation instrument shall be accepted by the
governing body in the same manner as plats of subdivision, and shall also be
accepted by the county superintendent of highways, the highway commissioner of
the appropriate township, the district engineer of the Illinois department of
transportation, division of highways, and the public utilities involved. In the
case of platted tracts wherein any lots have been sold, the written vacation
instrument must also be signed by all the owners of lots in said tract. (Ord.
644, 7-6-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/6, 205/7, 205/8.
