ST. ANNE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 21-03, passed 8-9-2021
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of St. Anne shall be designated as
the Code of Ordinances for the Village of St. Anne, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Village of
St Anne.
   CODE. The Village Code of St. Anne and amendments thereto.
   COUNTY. Kankakee County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Kankakee County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a
business, profession, or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. Shall begin on May 1 and close on April 30 of each and every
year.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   NEGLIGENT. Imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent person ordinarily bestows in
acting in his or her own concern. Includes NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, and
NEGLIGENTLY.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of St. Anne.”
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business, or
profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser, and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of St. Anne. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. The sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of St. Anne.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The President of the Village may be referred to as MAYOR
or PRESIDENT of the Village of St. Anne.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WHOLESALER. The sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things in quantity
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale. Also called WHOLESALE
DEALERS.
   WILFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willfulness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, being 815 ILCS 33/1 et seq., except as otherwise provided by
law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2) (Ord. 2, passed 4-16-1899)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end, the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty, general. Except as otherwise provided, any person convicted
of a violation of any section or provision of this village code shall be fined
a sum not to exceed an amount set forth in §
35.01 for any one offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   License. When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of
this village code, any license previously issued to him or her by the village
may be removed by the court or by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Application. 
      (1)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this village code the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this village code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where
any act which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this village code.
      (2)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this village code, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (D)   Liability of officers. No provision of this village code designating
the duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such
officer or employee liable for the fine or penalty provided for a failure to
perform such duty, unless the intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such
fine or penalty on such officer or employee is specifically created and clearly
expressed in the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
   (E)   Fines and penalties. Except as otherwise provided, any person
convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this village code shall
be fined as set forth in §
35.01.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 7-11-2016; Ord. 16-05, passed 7-11-2016; Ord. 18-04, passed
10-8-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate Seal designated
   
11.02   Custody of Seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL DESIGNATED.
   The Corporate Seal of the village shall be of circular form with the words
“Village of St. Anne, Kankakee, County, Ill.” thereon. The Seal so described
herein shall be an authentic proof of the genuine character of all documents on
which it may be fixed.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1) (Ord. 3, passed 4-10-1899)
§ 11.02 CUSTODY OF SEAL.
   The Corporate Seal of the village shall be kept at all times by the Clerk of
the village, who shall see to its proper application on all documents on which
the Seal should be imprinted.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES; PRESIDENT
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   BOARDS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
      
35.   FEES AND FINES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES; PRESIDENT
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Salaries
   
30.03   Village President
   
30.04   Bond
   
30.05   Duties
   
30.06   Signature; licenses, permits, and warrants
   
30.07   Legislative body
   
30.08   Quorum
   
30.09   Commencement of duties
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular stated meetings of the President and
Board of Trustees shall be held in the Village Hall of the village on the
second Monday of each month, at which meetings all bills and accounts must be
presented and audited, and at none other. Adjourned meetings may be held for
the purpose of completing the unfinished business of the regular meetings and
such other purposes as are necessary, at such time or times as may be
determined by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the President and Board of
Trustees may be called by the President of the Board of Trustees or by any
three Trustees by notification in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Public notice of any special meeting or of any rescheduled regular
meeting, or of any reconvened meeting shall be given at least 24 hours before
such meeting.
      (2)   This requirement of public notice of reconvened meetings does not
apply to any case where the meeting is to be reconvened within 24 hours nor to
any case where announcement of the time and place of the reconvened meeting was
made at the original meeting, and there is no change in the agenda.
      (3)   Public notice shall be given by posting a copy of the notice at the
principal office of the body holding the meeting, and the Board shall supply
copies of notices of regular meetings and of special, rescheduled, or
reconvened meetings to any local newspaper or radio station that has filed an
annual request for such notice.
      (4)   The President and the Board of Trustees shall also be served
personally or notice of such meetings shall be left at their usual places of
abode stating the object and purpose of such meeting.
      (5)   No business shall be transacted in any such meeting except such as
the meeting was called for and notification given therefor, except by the vote
of three-fourths of all the members of the Village Board elected.
   (C)   Meetings open to public. All meetings, whether regular, special,
rescheduled, or reconvened, shall be open to the public as provided by the
statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 1, passed 4-10-1899)
§ 30.02 SALARIES.
   (A)   President. The President of the Village Board of Trustees shall have a
salary as established by ordinance or resolution, and for each regular or
special village meeting attended, a sum as established by ordinance or
resolution.
   (B)   Trustees. Each of the Trustees of the Village Board shall have a
salary as established by ordinance or resolution, and for each regular or
special village meeting attended, a sum as established by ordinance or
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. passed 4-10-2000)
§ 30.03 VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
   There shall be elected a president of the village who shall hold his or her
office for four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified;
he or she shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, and
shall have resided within the corporate limits of the village at least one year
next preceding the election at which he or she is a candidate.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 30.04 BOND.
   The President of the village shall, before he or she enters upon the duties
of his or her office, execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of an
amount as set forth n §
35.02 with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned as
prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 30.05 DUTIES.
   The President of the Board of Trustees shall perform the duties and exercise
the powers conferred upon the mayor of a city. He or she shall devote such time
to the duties of his or her office as the faithful discharge thereof may
require. During an absence of the President or his or her inability to act, the
Board of Trustees shall elect one of its members to act as President Pro
Tempore who, during his or her absence or disability, shall possess the powers
of the President.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 30.06 SIGNATURE; LICENSES, PERMITS, AND WARRANTS.
   The President shall sign all commissions, licenses, permits, and warrants
granted, issued, or ordered by the Board of Trustees or authorized by the
ordinances of the village, and may revoke any of such licenses for the causes
hereinafter provided. The President shall also sign, and he or she is hereby
empowered, to sign on behalf of the village, all instruments necessary to
promptly prosecute or defend any or all acts brought by or against the village,
all instruments necessary to promptly prosecute or defend any or all acts
brought by or against the village. In addition thereto, the President shall
perform all such other duties and have all additional powers that are or may be
prescribed by the laws of the state, or the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
§ 30.07 LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   The legislative and governing body of the village shall consist of the
President of the village and six Trustees elected for four-year terms according
to the method provided by statute who shall possess the qualifications for
office, be elected by the legal voters of the municipality, take the oath of
office, and perform the duties provided by the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
§ 30.08 QUORUM.
   A majority of the corporate authorities shall constitute a quorum to do
business.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-8)
§ 30.09 COMMENCEMENT OF DUTIES.
   The Village President and the Trustees of the Village Board shall be
installed in their newly elected positions on the second Monday in May
immediately following the election of such persons to their respective offices
and they shall serve a term in accordance with these ordinances and the
statutes of the state until the second Monday in May in the year in which their
term expires. From the date of the election and the canvas thereof, until the
second Monday in May immediately following, the previous officers shall serve
as officers of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-9) (Ord. passed 4-8-1985; Ord. 19-02, passed 5-13-2019)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Government Officials
   
31.01   Village Clerk
   
31.02   Village Treasurer
   
31.03   Form of oath
Director of Public Works
   
31.15   Oath, bond, commission
   
31.16   Authority to repair streets
   
31.17   Expenditures
   
31.18   Submit report
   
31.19   Compensation
   
31.20   Duties
   
31.21   Office created; term
   
31.22   Failure to perform duties
   
31.23   Report to Board
Chief of Police; Police Officers
   
31.55   Village Police Chief
   
31.56   Duties
   
31.57   Deputies
   
31.58   Custodian
   
31.59   Records
   
31.60   Power of arrest
   
31.61   Process
   
31.62   Compensation
   
31.63   Auxiliary police force
   
31.64   Part-time officers
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk shall keep the Corporate Seal, to be provided by the
corporate authorities, and all papers belonging to the village, the custody and
control of which are not to be given to other officers. He or she shall attend
all meetings of the village authorities and keep a full record of its
proceedings in the journal.
      (2)   The Clerk, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall execute and deliver to the Village Treasurer a good and sufficient bond
without individual sureties in a penal sum of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 and shall be conditioned upon the fact that the Clerk shall well and
truly perform all the duties of his or her office as required by law and the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall, in accordance with statute, act as a local
registrar for the State Registrar of Vital Records, as so directed from time to
time. He or she shall further have the powers and duties prescribed upon him or
her by statute.
   (C)   The Clerk of the village shall have a salary of as established by
ordinance or resolution by the Village Board per year plus the sum as
established by the Village Board for each regular or special village meeting
attended.
   (D)   The position of Village Clerk shall be an appointed position, said
appointment to be made by the Village President with the concurrence of the
Village Board, effective the beginning of the 2016 fiscal year and continuing
thereafter unless changed by referendum pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1) (Ord. passed 4-10-2000; Res. 15-07, passed 6-5-2015; Ord.
19-03, passed 5-13-2019)
§ 31.02 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Books and accounts. The Village Treasurer shall receive all money
belonging to the village, and shall keep his or her books and accounts in the
manner prescribed by ordinance. These books and accounts shall always be
subject to the inspection of any member of the village authorities.
   (B)   Bond. The Village Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his or
her office, shall execute and deliver to the Village Clerk a bond signed by at
least two sureties in the sum equal to three times the latest federal census
population or any subsequent census used for motor fuel tax purposes
conditioned upon the fact that he or she will faithfully, justly, and fairly
account for and pay over all monies that may come into his or her hands by
virtue of his or her office, and duly perform each and every act and duty
imposed upon him or her by virtue of the laws of this state or by the
provisions of this code.
   (C)   Salary. The Treasurer of the village shall have a salary as
established by ordinance or resolution, plus for each regular or special
village meeting attended, a sum as established by the Village Board.
   (D)   Authorization. The Treasurer of the village is hereby authorized to
pay to the holders of the offices of Trustee, the Clerk, the Treasurer, and the
Village President a salary as established by ordinance or resolution, and for
each regular or special meeting attended, a sum as established by ordinance or
resolution.
   (E)   Collector of special assessments for local improvements. The collector
of special assessments for local improvements shall be the Village Treasurer,
and it shall be the duty of such collector without delay when any special
assessment shall be confirmed by any court of the county and a warrant for the
collection of the same shall be presented to him or her to immediately demand
payment of all special assessments of those who, by such order of such court,
are bound to pay the same. He or she shall report all delinquencies as by law
provided and shall observe every other duty enjoined upon him or her by the
laws of the state or the provisions of this code now in force or which shall
hereafter be in force.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. passed 4-10-2000)
§ 31.03 FORM OF OATH.
   (A)   The Treasurer and Clerk of the village and all other officers of the
village, whether elected or appointed, not otherwise provided for by ordinance,
shall, before entering upon the duties of their offices respectively, take and
subscribe the following oath or affirmation:
      I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of (here
inserting the name of the office to which he or she is elected or appointed)
according to the best of my ability.
   (B)   The oath or affirmation so subscribed in division (A) above shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3) (Ord. 4, passed 4-10-1899)
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 31.15 OATH, BOND, COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works of the village shall, within ten days
after his or her appointment by the President and the Board of Trustees of the
village and before entering upon the duties of his or her office, take and
subscribe the oath of office, which shall be filed in the office of the Village
Clerk.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works, after his or her appointment as
aforesaid and before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall
execute and deliver to the Board of Trustees for its approval, a good and
sufficient bond, signed by at least two freeholders, in the penal sum of an
amount as set forth in §
35.02 payable to the village, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of all
the duties of his or her office.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works of the village shall be commissioned by
warrant under the Corporate Seal of the village signed by the Village Clerk and
President or the Board or Trustees. The President and Board of Trustees shall
issue to the Clerk a certificate of the appointment of a Director of Public
Works for the village naming the person so appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 4, passed 4-10-1899)
§ 31.16 AUTHORITY TO REPAIR STREETS.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works, under the direction of
the Committee on Streets and Alleys, to faithfully superintend all repairs and
improvements upon the streets, avenues, and alleys ordered by the Board of
Trustees; provided, that in all improvements not made by the order of the
Village Board, the Director of Public Works shall confer with and secure
concurrence of the said Committee on Streets and Alleys on which such
improvements or repairs are to be made before proceeding to make such
improvements or repairs as aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 31.17 EXPENDITURES.
   No monies shall be expended out of the general treasury of the village for
improvements or labor upon the streets, avenues, and alleys of the village
unless by special order of the Board of Trustees directing the improvements or
expenditures for which such payment out of the said general treasury is to be
made, or by order of the President in case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
§ 31.18 SUBMIT REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works on the second Monday of
every month, and more often if required by the Board of Trustees, to give a
written statement of his or her transactions during the term stating the amount
and the kind of work which has been performed, the quality and price of all
materials furnished, the names of the streets or avenues on which the work has
been performed, the names of all persons who have performed labor, and the
number of days each has worked.
§ 31.19 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation for the Director of Public Works shall be at a rate annually
determined by the Board of Trustees and shall be payable out of the Village
Treasury. Compensation to any employees of the Director of Public Works who
shall furnish labor or material to the village shall make out and present a
bill of the same to the Board of Trustees of the village, said bill shall be
certified to by the Director of Public Works as correct before the same shall
be considered by said Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
§ 31.20 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to take care that
the provisions of all village ordinances in regard to streets, avenues, alleys,
and public ways in the village and also all public grounds, sidewalks, drains,
and sewers of the village are obeyed. He or she shall further comply with such
orders or directions, either general or special, as he or she may from time to
time receive from the Board of Trustees or the President thereof. For any
refusal or neglect on his or her part to obey such lawful orders or fulfill any
other duty imposed upon him or her, he or she shall be subject to removal from
office.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to see that the
tools and implements of the village, obtained for the purpose of working the
streets, avenues, and alleys of the village, shall be properly taken care of.
When the same are not in use by him or her for that purpose, he or she shall
collect the same and deposit them in some safe and convenient place to be
designated by the Committee on Streets and Alleys. The Director of Public Works
is hereby forbidden from loaning or hiring said tools or implements to any
person, unless it shall be for the purpose of working on any of the streets,
avenues, or alleys of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6)
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall have full charge of the pumping
plant, station, mains, and hydrants of the waterworks plant owned by the
village. He or she shall, under the supervision of the Committee on Police,
Fire, and Water of the village, make and superintend the making of all needful
repairs necessary to keep said plant in operation, and with the approval of the
Village Board, may make such changes and alterations as may be deemed necessary
and advisable to operate said waterworks plant. He or she shall also carry out
the orders, rules, and regulations of the Village Board and the Committee on
Police, Fire, and Water which shall have charge of said waterworks. Said
officer shall make monthly or quarterly statements of water rentals due, and
mail the same to the users of water.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
(Ord. 7, passed 4-10-1899)
§ 31.21 OFFICE CREATED; TERM.
   There is hereby created the office of Director of Public Works of the
village, which officer shall be appointed annually by the President of the
Board of Trustees, with the approval of the Village Board. The Director of
Public Works shall hold his or her office for the term of not exceeding one
year or during the pleasure of the President and Board of Trustees of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.22 FAILURE TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   The Director of Public Works shall be subject to removal by the President of
the Board of Trustees for failure to comply with any of the rules, regulations,
and orders of the Board of Trustees, or for failure to properly execute the
duties of said office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 31.23 REPORT TO BOARD.
   The Director of Public Works shall attend all meetings of the Village Board
and give them such information as he or she may possess in regard to the
operation and condition of the waterworks plant and may make such
recommendations as to him or her may seem desirable.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6) (Ord. passed 11-13-1922)
CHIEF OF POLICE; POLICE OFFICERS
§ 31.55 VILLAGE POLICE CHIEF.
   There shall be appointed by the President and approved by the Board for the
village a chief of police who shall be a citizen of the United States and who
shall have resided in the area at least one year prior to his or her selection,
who shall hold office at the pleasure of the President and the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
§ 31.56 DUTIES.
   Unless otherwise specified in this code, the Village Police Chief shall be
responsible for the enforcement and the observance of the provisions of this
code and all state laws applicable in the village. The Village Police Chief
shall also perform whatever duties the President and the Village Board shall
prescribe from time to time for the preservation of the public peace and the
observance and enforcement of the provisions of this code. The Village Police
Chief and all duly appointed deputies are hereby declared to be conservators of
the peace.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
§ 31.57 DEPUTIES.
   The President and the Board of Trustees may, from time to time, appoint
deputies to assist the Village Police Chief in his or her duties. All such
deputies shall be subject to the control and authority of the Village Police
Chief.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
§ 31.58 CUSTODIAN.
   The Village Police Chief shall have custody and control of all equipment,
books, records, and other property belonging to his or her office, and all
lost, stolen, or abandoned property.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
§ 31.59 RECORDS.
   The Village Police Chief shall cause the following books of record to be
kept:
   (A)   Persons arrested;
   (B)   Accounts of monies received and expended, and the purposes thereof;
   (C)   All properties placed in his or her charge; and
   (D)   Such other books and records as shall be required by the business of
his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
§ 31.60 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Village Police Chief and any and all deputies shall have the power to
arrest all persons of the village found in the act of violating any law or
provision of this code or aiding and abetting any such violation, and shall
arrest any person found under circumstances which would warrant a reasonable
man in believing that such person had committed or is about to commit a crime.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
§ 31.61 PROCESS.
   The Village Police Chief and any or all of his or her deputies shall have
the power and authority to serve and execute warrants and other processes in
the village for summon, apprehension, and commitment of any person charged with
violation of any provision of this code, or with any crime or misdemeanor or
offense against the laws of the village or state.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7)
§ 31.62 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Police Chief and any such deputies as may be appointed shall be
compensated at such rates as may be set from time to time by the President and
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-8)
§ 31.63 AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   Appointment; number; qualifications; term. 
      (1)   The President is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a
maximum of five auxiliary police officers, which number may be changed from
time to time by ordinance adopted by at least a majority of the Board.
      (2)   Each individual appointment shall be subject to the advice and
consent of the Board.
      (3)   An auxiliary police officer need not be a resident of the village.
      (4)   Prior to the appointment of any auxiliary police officer, his or
her fingerprints shall be taken, and examination made thereof, and no person
shall be appointed as an auxiliary police officer if he or she has been
convicted of a felony or crime involving moral turpitude.
      (5)   The term of the appointment shall not exceed one calendar year from
the date of appointment.
    (B)   Duties. 
      (1)   Auxiliary police officers shall not supplement members of the
regular Police Department of the village in the performance of their assigned
and normal duties, except as otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the
following duties:
         (a)   To aid or direct traffic within the municipality;
         (b)   To aid in the control of natural or human-made disaster;
         (c)   To aid, in case of civil disorder, as directed by the Chief of
Police; and
         (d)   In cases which render it impractical for members of the regular
Police Department to perform the normal and regular police duties, the Chief of
Police of the regular Police Department, with the written consent of the
President, may assign auxiliary police officers to perform such normal and
regular police duties.
      (3)   Auxiliary police officers, when on duty, shall also be conservators
of the peace, and shall have the powers as specified in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20, as
now and hereafter amended.
   (C)   Uniforms. Auxiliary police officers shall not wear uniforms, or parts
thereof, or any identification symbol, which might be confused with that of
members of the regular Police Department.
   (D)   Supervision by Chief. Auxiliary police officers shall, at all times,
during the performance of their duties, be subject to the direction and control
of the Chief of Police.
   (E)   When permitted to carry firearms. Auxiliary police officers shall not
carry firearms, except with the permission of the Chief of Police, who shall
have the prior authorization from the President; and unless they are in full
uniform and in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   Payment. Auxiliary police officers shall serve without pay from the
village.
   (G)   Training.
      (1)   Prior to entering upon any of their duties as auxiliary police
officers, each auxiliary police officer shall have received a course of
training in the use of weapons and other police procedures as shall be
appropriate in the exercise of the powers conferred upon them under this
section.
      (2)   The course of training and study shall be reduced to writing and
shall be approved by the Board.
   (H)   Oath; bond. An auxiliary police officer shall take a like oath to that
of a regular police officer and post a like bond.
   (I)   To be distinguished from police officers. 
      (1)   Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular
Police Department of the village.
      (2)   The term POLICE OFFICER as used elsewhere in this code does not
include auxiliary police officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-9) (Ord. 7-79, passed 4-9-1979)
§ 31.64 PART-TIME OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-21, the village, by full approval of a
majority of the Board of Trustees may appoint, hire, discipline, and discharge
part-time police officers to act on behalf of the village.
      (2)   Those officers shall be hired as at-will employees.
   (B)   Qualifications. In addition to those requirements and qualifications
which may be established by the village from time to time, applicants for the
position of part-time officers shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Must be a United States citizen;
      (2)   Must be 21 years of age;
      (3)   Must possess a high school diploma or GED equivalent;
      (4)   Must have a valid Illinois driver’s license;
       (5)   Must have eyesight of 20/20, or correctable to 20/20;
      (6)   Must not be colorblind;
      (7)   Must be in good physical health and able to pass physical agility
test;
      (8)   Must be able to pass a physical examination by a licensed medical
doctor prior to the physical agility test, or have a valid waiver issued by a
licensed medical doctor stating that the applicant is capable of participating
in a physical agility test;
      (9)   Must meet all certification requirements as required by the State
Law Enforcement Training Standards Board, including but not limited to basic
law enforcement recruit training, or similar training from another
jurisdiction, and firearms certification course.
      (10)   Must have no felony convictions, or any violations (whether
convictions or other dispositions where a finding of guilty was made) of other
crimes involving moral turpitude as solely determined by the village;
      (11)   Must not be delinquent in any court order, including but not
limited to, child support, maintenance, or other form of support;
      (12)   Must show proficiency in reading and writing the English language
(as determined by the village);
      (13)   Must meet all standards set forth in 430 ILCS 65 et seq.
pertaining to the Firearms Owners Identification Act; and
      (14)   Must not have been dishonorably discharged from the United States
Military.
   (C)   Powers and duties. Part-time police officers shall have the following
powers and duties, when properly assigned and on duty:
      (1)   To aid or direct traffic in the municipality;
      (2)   To aid in control of natural or human-made disasters;
      (3)   To aid in case of civil disorder;
      (4)   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the
Chief of Police on occasions when it is impractical for members of the regular
Police Department to perform such duties;
       (5)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace, or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
criminal law of the state;
      (6)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
      (7)   To detain arrested persons, if necessary, in custody;
      (8)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe; and
      (9)   To serve and execute all warrants for the violation of municipal
ordinances, or the State Criminal Code, being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. within the
village limits.
   (D)   Limitations.
      (l)   Any officers hired pursuant to this section shall not hold a rank
position, nor shall they be assigned under any circumstances to supervise or
direct full-time officers.
      (2)   Part-time officers shall not be used as permanent replacements for
full-time police officers.
   (E)   Firearms. Part-time officers shall not carry firearms except with the
permission of the Chief of Police of the village, and then only when in uniform
and in the performance of their duties; provided, however, that the Chief of
Police may, in his or her discretion, waive requirements of uniform and/or in
the performance of their duties in order to carry firearms. Any such waiver by
the Chief of Police shall be in writing. In no way shall this right extend to
part-time officers who are no longer employed by the village.
   (F)   Training. Part-time officers, prior to entering upon any of their
duties, shall receive a course of training in departmental policies,
procedures, and street patrol as may be determined by the Chief of Police. Such
course of training shall not be less than 40 hours in duration, and shall not
exceed 120 hours; provided further, that the part-time officer shall receive no
violations during his or her probationary period. The Chief of Police shall
file a certificate attesting to the part-time officer’s completion of said
training.
   (G)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be subject to discipline by the
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall set rules and regulations that
govern the Village Police Department. Part-time police officers may be removed
or terminated from their position by action of the Chief of Police.
   (H)   Compensation. Part-time police officers shall receive compensations
for services performed, at such hourly rate as shall be from time to time
determined by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-10) (Ord. 12-12, passed 10-8-2012)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of Local Improvements
   
32.01   Established
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
32.15   Creation and membership
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Appeal
   
32.18   Duties and jurisdiction
   
32.19   Validity period
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
32.30   Establishment
   
32.31   Coordinator
   
32.32   Functions
   
32.33   Service as mobile support team
   
32.34   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
32.35   Emergency action
   
32.36   Compensation
   
32.37   Reimbursement by state
   
32.38   Purchases and expenditures
   
32.39   Oath; office
   
32.40   Appropriation; levy of taxes
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with the statutes of the state, three members of the Board of
Trustees shall be designated as members of the Board of Local Improvements
along with the President of the Board of Trustees and the Superintendent of
Streets, whose terms of office as members of the Board of Local Improvements
shall expire after one year’s service.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. passed 5-20-1929)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 32.15 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established. The word BOARD when used in
this subchapter shall be construed to mean the Zoning Board of Appeals. The
said Board of Appeals shall consist of the President and the duly elected Board
of Trustees of the village. The members of said Board of Appeals shall serve
for as long as they are a Trustee or President of the village. One of the
members of the Board of Appeals shall be designated by the President, with the
consent of the Village Board of Trustees, as Chairperson of the said Board of
Appeals, and shall hold his or her office as Chairperson until his or her
successor is appointed. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson or at such times as the Board of Appeals may determine. All
hearings conducted by said Board of Appeals shall be open to the public. The
Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each
member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions.
Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a requested
variation and the reasons for recommending or denying such variation shall be
specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and
every order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Board of Appeals
shall be filed immediately in the office of the Board of Appeals and shall be a
public record. The Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules of procedure not
in conflict with the Zoning Code or with the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 32.17 APPEAL.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals by any person or by any
officer, department, board, or bureau of the village affected by a decision of
the Building Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be
prescribed by the Board of Appeals by general rule, by filing with the Building
Inspector and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the
grounds thereof. The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board
of Appeals all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   (B)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board of Appeals
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board
of Appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Building
Inspector, and on due cause shown.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall select a reasonable time and place for the
hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall
render a decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may
appear and testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent
or attorney.
   (D)   A fee of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 shall be paid to the Building Inspector at the time the notice of appeal
is filed which the Building Inspector shall forthwith pay over to the Village
Treasurer to the credit of the General Revenue Fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 32.18 DUTIES AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and
review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Building
Inspector.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify or amend the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed
from to the extent and in the manner that the Board of Appeals may decide to be
fitting and proper in the premises, and to that end, the Board of Appeals shall
have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall also hold public hearings on, and when in
harmony with the general purpose and intent of the Zoning Code, may authorize
the following exceptions to the terms thereof:
      (1)   The extension of a district where the boundary line of a district
divides a lot in a single ownership at the time of the effective date of the
Zoning Code;
      (2)   Interpretation of the provisions of the Zoning Code in such a way
as to carry out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the Zoning
Map fixing the several districts referred to in the Zoning Code and made a part
thereof by reference, where the street layout actually on the ground varies
from the street layout as shown on the Zoning Map aforesaid;
      (3)   The erection and use of a building or the use of premises in any
location for a railroad or public service corporation for public utility
purposes which the Board of Appeals determines reasonably necessary for the
public convenience or welfare;
      (4)   The reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has been
damaged by explosion, fire, act of God, or public enemy to the extent of more
than 60% of its fair market value, where the Board of Appeals finds some
compelling necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming use and the
primary purpose of continuing the nonconforming use is not to continue a
monopoly;
      (5)   The waiving or reduction of the parking and loading requirements in
any of the districts whenever the character or use of the building is such as
to make unnecessary the full provision of parking or loading facilities, or
where such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of
the lot, as contrasted with merely granting an advantage or a convenience; and
      (6)   Extension of the period within which a nonconforming commercial or
industrial use is to be removed from a dwelling district, when the owner or
owners can furnish substantial proof that the building was so extensively
remodeled, reconstructed, or structurally altered after the original
construction that it practically resulted in a new building, but such extension
of the period shall not exceed 40 years from the date of such remodeling,
reconstruction, or structural alteration.
   (C)   (1)   Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or
shape of a specific piece of property, or by reason of exceptional
topographical conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or
condition of a specific piece of property, the strict application of any
provision of the Zoning Code would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties and clearly demonstrable hardship upon the owner of the property,
amounting to practical confiscation thereof, and not a mere inconvenience to
such owner, the Board of Appeals may authorize, after public hearing, a
variation in the strict application of the terms of the Zoning Code. In its
consideration of the standards of practical difficulties or particular
hardship, the Board of Appeals shall require evidence that:
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone;
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances, which
circumstances do not apply to other adjoining or nearby property; and
         (c)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality. A variation shall be permitted only if the evidence,
in the judgment of the Board of Appeals, sustains each of the three conditions
enumerated.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the public hearings before the
Board of Appeals shall be given by publishing same at least once, not more than
30 nor less than 15 days before the hearing, in a newspaper published in the
county.
      (3)   In consideration of all appeals and all proposed variations to the
Zoning Code, the Board of Appeals shall, before making any variation from the
Zoning Code in a specific case, first determine that the proposed variation
will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or
unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets or increase the danger
of fire or endanger the public safety, or unreasonably diminish or impair
established property values within the surrounding area, or in any other
respect impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals, or welfare of the
inhabitants of the village. The concurring vote of four members of the Board of
Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Building Inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant
any matter upon which it is authorized by the Zoning Code or this subchapter to
render a decision.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 32.19 VALIDITY PERIOD.
   (A)   No order of the Board of Appeals permitting the erection or alteration
of a building shall be valid for a period longer than a year, unless a building
permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such
erection or alteration is started and proceeded to completion in accordance
with the terms of such permit.
   (B)   No order of the Board of Appeals permitting a use of a building or
premises shall be valid for a period longer than one year, unless such use is
established within such period; provided, however, that where such use
permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building such order
shall continue in force and effect if a building permit for said erection or
alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or alteration is
started and proceeded to completion in accordance with the terms of such
permit.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Unit of ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair,
and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or human-made disaster, in
accordance with the State Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1975, see
S.H.A. 20 ILCS 3305/1
   (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 32.31 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the Village ESDA shall be appointed by the Village
President and shall serve until removed by the same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training, and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Village President as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Village President, or any person designated by him or
her, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made, as
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-2)
§ 32.32 FUNCTIONS.
   The Village ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as
shall be prescribed in and by the State ESDA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor, and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided by the State ESDA Act of 1975, being 20 ILCS 3305/10.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-3)
§ 32.33 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the Village ESDA organization may be designated
as members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA,
as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator or the Village ESDA organization.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from
the state reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-4)
§ 32.34 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Village President and by the State
Director of ESDA.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-5)
§ 32.35 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Village ESDA
to cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-6)
§ 32.36 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the Village
President.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-7)
§ 32.37 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA, as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-8)
§ 32.38 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Village President may, on recommendation of the Village
Coordinator of ESDA, authorize any purchase by contracts necessary to place the
village in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the
explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public
health and safety, protect property, and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster, or from human-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the Village
Coordinator of ESDA is authorized on behalf of the village, to procure such
services, supplies, equipment, or material as may be necessary for such
purposes, in view of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or
formalities normally proscribed by law pertaining to village contracts or
obligations, as authorized by the State ESDA Act of 1975, being 20 ILCS 3305/
10; provided, that if the Village President meets at such time he or she shall
act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-9)
§ 32.39 OATH; OFFICE.
   (A)   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
      “I ________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and
the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
affiliated with the St. Anne ESDA organization, I will not advocate nor become
a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, § 2-3-10)
   (B)   The Village President is authorized to designate space in a village
building, or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Village President for the
Village ESDA as its office.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-11)
§ 32.40 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Village President may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the
manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax
not to exceed an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other
taxes as provided by the State ESDA Act of 1975, being 20 ILCS 3305/10;
however, that amount collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed an
amount as set forth in §
35.02 per capita.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-12) (Ord. 3-78, passed 6-13-1977)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Depositories designated
Bidding Procedures
   
33.15   Advertisement and taking of bids
   
33.16   Authority to accept bids
Funds
   
33.30   Municipal Retirement Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The National Bank of St. Anne, Illinois and the City National Bank of
Kankakee, Illinois are hereby selected by the Village Board as the depositories
of all the funds of the village.
   (B)   The Treasurer of the village is hereby authorized and directed to
deposit all funds collected by him or her as Treasurer in one of the said
depositories for such funds as established by this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1) (Ord. passed 1-4-1932)
BIDDING PROCEDURES
§ 33.15 ADVERTISEMENT AND TAKING OF BIDS.
   When it is determined by the Village Board of Trustees that equipment, work,
or public improvements are needed for the village, and the purchase of any of
the aforementioned items is to be made from the lowest responsible bidder, then
an advertisement shall be placed in a local newspaper of general distribution
specifying the goods, work, or public improvements to be made or purchased, and
said advertisement will appear not less than once a week for a period of three
weeks, or 21 days depending upon the publication date of said aforementioned
newspaper.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-1) (Ord. passed 6-12-1989)
§ 33.16 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT BIDS.
   The Corporate Authorities grant the Village President, or his or her
designee, in writing, the specific authority to execute a contract without
further action by the Corporate Authorities and with the authority to bind the
village.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 10-13-2014)
FUNDS
§ 33.30 MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   The village hereby elects to participate in the State Municipal Retirement
Fund, effective January 1, 1976.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4) (Ord. 6-75, passed 9-13-1975)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
Section
General Municipal Policies
   
34.01   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
34.02   Travel, meal, and lodging expenses for corporate authorities
Sexual Harassment Policy
   
34.15   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
34.16   Definition
   
34.17   Procedure for reporting allegation of sexual harassment
   
34.18   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
§ 34.01 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of 5 ILCS 430/5-15 and 5 ILCS 430/10-10–10-40 of the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as “the Act” in this section) are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to the extent
required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by an officer or any employee of the village, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinance or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this section by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the State Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. passed 5-10-2004) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.02 TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES FOR CORPORATE AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   This section shall comply with the requirements of the Local
Governmental Travel Expense Act, being 50 ILCS 150/1 et seq., enacted as Public
Act 99-0604 and effective January 1, 2017.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the village to carry out
responsibilities of village business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or by wards or charges of the village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (C)   The village shall only reimburse the following types of travel, meal,
and lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the following
maximum allowable amounts:
      (1)   Travel: current IRS rate per mile for the calendar year of travel;
      (2)   Meal: IRS current year’s per diem for each day, alcohol is
specifically excluded from this or any reimbursement; and
      (3)   Lodging: IRS current year’s per diem for each day.
   (D)   No reimbursement of travel, meal, or lodging expense incurred by a
village employee or officer shall be authorized unless the “travel, meal, and
lodging expense reimbursement request form,” as approved by the Village Board
from time to time, has been submitted and approved. All documents and
information submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
   (E)   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: any officer or employee
that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations adopted
under division (C) above; or any member of the corporate authorities of the
village may only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the
corporate authorities of the village. However, in the event of an emergency or
other extraordinary circumstances, the corporate authorities may approve more
than the maximum allowable expense set forth above.
   (F)   The village shall not reimburse any elected official, employee, or
officer for any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities
which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are excluded from
the prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 16-8, passed 12-12-2016)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 34.15 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the village to prohibit harassment
of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee,
or municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal
officials, municipal agents, municipal employees, and municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-8-2018) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.16 DEFINITION.
   This subchapter adopts the definition of SEXUAL HARASSMENT as stated in the
State Human Rights Act, being 775 5/1-101 et seq., which currently defines
SEXUAL HARASSMENT as:
   (A)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct which may constitute SEXUAL HARASSMENT includes:
      (1)   NON-VERBAL. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, catcalls, smacking, or
kissing noises;
      (2)   PHYSICAL. Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault;
      (3)   TEXTUAL/ELECTRONIC. “Sexting” (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber-stalking, and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/online postings,
blogs, instant messages, and social network websites like Facebook and X);
      (4)   VERBAL. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature; and
      (5)   VISUAL. Posters, signs, pin-ups, or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
   (C)   The most severe and overt forms of SEXUAL HARASSMENT are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some SEXUAL HARASSMENT is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess SEXUAL HARASSMENT by a standard of what
would offend a reasonable person.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 34.17 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes himself
or herself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident
(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating his or her
position to the offending employee, and his or her immediate supervisor. It is
not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following.
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express his or her objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel. 
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the village manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer
of the village.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the village will not be presumed to have knowledge of the
harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside village. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time, and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos, and telephone
messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 34.18 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No village official, village agency, village employee, or village
agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any village employee
due to a village employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, being 5 ILCS 430/15-10, provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state agency, or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency, or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act, being 740 ILCS 174/15(a), an
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a
court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation.
   (F)   According to the State Human Rights Act, being 775 ILCS 5/6-101, it is
a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire,
to retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that which he or
she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
State Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge, due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of the
alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-8-2018) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 740 ILCS 174/15(b)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual
harassment. In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable
pursuant to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee
handbooks, and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this
policy or the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to an amount set forth in §
35.01 per offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the municipality and
any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance,
state law, or federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense.
Any discipline imposed by the village shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a state or federal agency.
      (2)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report.
         (a)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an
accuser using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than
stopping sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A
false report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven.
         (b)   Given the seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a
false or frivolous report is a severe offense that can itself result in
disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging
a violation of any provision of this policy shall be subject to discipline or
discharge pursuant to applicable village policies, employment agreements,
procedures, employee handbooks, and/or collective bargaining agreements.
         (c)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act, being 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq. to an ethics commission, an inspector
general, the State Police, a State’s Attorney, the Attorney General, or any
other law enforcement official is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics
commission may levy an administrative fine of up to an amount set forth in §
35.01 against any person who intentionally makes a false, frivolous, or bad
faith allegation.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 35: FEES AND FINES
Section
   
35.01   Fines and penalties
   
35.02   Fees and other amounts
§ 35.01 FINES AND PENALTIES.
Description: Fines Min ($) Max ($)
Description: Fines                                                         Min  Max ($)
                                                                           ($)
   Administration
Sexual harassment                                                              $5,000
   False report                                                             $5,000
   Animals
Impoundment of dogs which have bitten person                               $25  $500
Dangerous dogs                                                             $25  $500
Dogs declared nuisances                                                    $25  $500
Destruction of unredeemed dogs                                             $25  $500
Buildings and Building Regulations
Code enforcement proceeding; notice of violation                           $50  N/A
On failure of owner to correct violation after notice                      N/A  $2,500
Violations of Electrical Code per day                                      $100 N/A
Violations of Property Maintenance Code                                    $35  $500
Violation of stop work orders issued with regard to Mechanical Code        $100 $750
violations
Emergency Management
First violation                                                            $25  $750
Second violation                                                           $100 $750
Third violation                                                            $250 $750
False alarm (other than fire) fees based on violations occurring in one
calendar year
   1-4 false alarms                                                     $0   N/A
   5-7 false alarms, per occurrence                                     $50  N/A
   8-10 false alarms; per occurrence                                    $75  N/A
   Each false alarm over 10                                             $200 N/A
False fire alarm fees based on violations occurring in one calendar year
   First false fire alarm                                               $0   $0
   Second and all subsequent false fire alarms                          $250 N/A
   Fair Housing
Violation generally                                                        $100 $1,500
General Provisions
General penalty, any ordinance not otherwise indicated                     $100 $1,000
Dependent on violations in a 12-month period
   First offense                                                        $100 $1,000
   Second offense                                                       $150 $1,000
   Third offense                                                        $200 $1,000
   Not to exceed in aggregate                                                $15,000
Offenses
Bows and arrows                                                            $400 $500
Curfew                                                                     $400 $500
Dumping garbage in public containers                                       $100 $250
Dumping rubbish                                                                 $500
Firearms; discharging                                                      $20  $500
Gang activity                                                              $400 $500
Littering in public places
   First offense (not including restitution)                            $100 $250
   Second and each subsequent offense (not including restitution)       $200 $750
Minor in possession of alcohol
   First offense                                                        $100
   Second offense                                                       $150
   Third and subsequent offenses                                        $300
Mob action                                                                 $400 $500
Narcotics                                                                  $400 $500
Nuisance property                                                          $200 $1,000
   Civil penalty                                                             $100/
                                                                                day
Offensive conduct                                                          $400 $500
Offense contained in Title XIII not otherwise addressed herein             $125 $750
Parental irresponsibility and truancy                                      $50  $500
Possession of cannabis - follow state law
Possession of drug paraphernalia                                           $125 $750
Possession of tobacco by minors                                                 $25
Violation of prohibition of consumption of alcohol by persons less than 21 $125 $750
Weeds and rubbish violations                                               $50  $750
   Failing to comply with notice
      First offense: $25 per 1,000 square feet
      Second offense: $50 per 1,000 square feet
   Parks and Property
Lakes and ponds violations                                                 $15  $500
   Sewer Regulations
Damage from sewage works                                                        $500
   Streets and Sidewalks
Garage and yard sale signs not posted properly                                  $25
Skateboards and scooters on streets and sidewalks                               $100
Traffic and Vehicles
Parking on restricted portions of certain named streets
   Paid within time set forth on ticket                                 $50
   Paid for after time set on ticket                                    $100
Parking, standing, and compliance violations
   All other than handicapped spaces, if paid within 10 days            $50
   All other than handicapped spaces, if paid more than 10 days from    $100
issuance
   Posted handicapped parking violation, if paid within 10 days         $250
   Posted handicapped parking violation, if paid more than 10 days from $350
issuance
Speeding violation penalties                                               $100 $750
   Speed from 1-20 mph over posted limit                                $100 $150
   Speed from 21-30 mph over posted limit                               $150 $750
Unauthorized use of handicapped parking
   If paid within 10 days of issuance                                   $250
   Thereafter                                                           $350
   Vending Machines
Violations by businesses                                                        $500
   Water Regulations
General prohibitions                                                       $5   $200
Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited                         $500
Zoning
Failure to obtain building permit                                               $100
Provision violations                                                       $100 $200
 
§ 35.02 FEES AND OTHER AMOUNTS.
Description Fee or Amount
Amusements and Leisure
Description                                                         Fee or
                                                                    Amount
Amusements and Leisure
Bowling alleys and pools halls license                              $100 per
                                                                    year
Coin operated amusement device
   Gaming device                                                 $25 per
                                                                    year
   Original or renewed license                                   $250 per
                                                                    year
                                                                    $100 per
Gambling gaming table                                               table per
                                                                    year
Moving pictures                                                     $100 per
                                                                    year
Shooting galleries or places for target shooting                    $100 per
                                                                    year
Skating rinks                                                       $500 per
                                                                    year
   Bonds
Director of Public Works                                            $1,500
Liquor license                                                      $1,000
Solicitor or canvasser                                              $500
   Joint bond                                                    $1,000
Village Clerk                                                       $50,000
Village President                                                   $50,000
   Building Regulations
Building permit                                                      
   First $1,000 worth of construction                            $75
   Each additional $1,000                                        $5
   Construction less than $999.99                                $50
Electrical inspections                                              $100
   More than 1                                                   $50
                                                                    additional
Plumbing inspections                                                $100
   More than 1                                                   $50
                                                                    additional
Voluntary commercial sidewalk reimbursement for new installation    $5 per
                                                                    square foot
Voluntary residential sidewalk reimbursement for new installation   $4 per
                                                                    square foot
   Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
                                                                    $0.05 per
Tax levy                                                            $100 of
                                                                    taxable
                                                                    property
   Junk Store or Junk Yards
License                                                             $50 per
                                                                    year
   Liquor Regulations
Class A licenses                                                    $1,000 per
                                                                    year
Class B licenses                                                    $1,000 per
                                                                    year
Class C licenses                                                    $1,000 per
                                                                    year
Club license                                                        $100 per
                                                                    year
   Peddlers and Solicitors
Hawker’s or peddler’s license                                   $100 per 5
                                                                    days
Solicitors and canvassers permit fee                                $10 per 30
                                                                    days
   Sewer Regulations
Building sewer permits                                               
   Category I: pre-existing sewer lateral                        $2,500
   Category II: new connection                                   $500
Surcharge for bills                                                 $1 per
                                                                    month
   Streets and Sidewalks
Sidewalk development and excavations
   Failure to restore the excavation site promptly               $500
                                                                    deposit
      Additional restoration for all money used from previous $1,000
deposit                                                             deposit
   Permit deposit                                                $100
                                                                    deposit
   Water Regulations
Connection fees                                                      
   Category I: pre-existing water service                        $250
   Category II: new connection                                   $500
Disconnection for non-payment reinstating fee                       $50
Infrastructure fee                                                  $10
Private water systems permit and inspection fee                     $50
Restoration of service                                              $50
Water service deposit                                               $75
   Zoning
Special use permit petition                                         $50
Zoning classification amendment petition                            $50
   Zoning Board of Appeals
Notice of appeal                                                    $20
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Establishment of revenue system
   
50.03   User charge system
   
50.04   Sewer bill
   
50.05   Accounting
   
50.06   Nonpayment of bills
   
50.07   User charge rate
   
50.08   Use of public sewers required
   
50.09   Private sewage disposal
   
50.10   Building sewers and connections
   
50.11   Public sewer use regulations
   
50.12   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
50.13   Powers and authority of inspectors
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended,
Pub. Law No. 92-500, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   AUDIT. An audit as a separate report from other funds in accordance with
general services administration policy circular, FMC73-2, and shall cover the
following:
      (1)   Financial operations are properly conducted;
      (2)   Financial reports are presented fairly;
      (3)   Applicable laws and regulations have been complied with;
      (4)   Resources are managed and used in an economical and efficient
manner; and
      (5)   Desired results and objectives are being achieved in a financially
effective manner.
    AUTHORITY. The Village of St. Anne.
   BILLABLE FLOW. A user’s recorded quarterly water usage as metered by the
appropriate water utility, plus metered water from wells and other sources, and
less any sewer exempt metered data, times the village approved percentage
factor for wastewater entering the sewer system out of the metered water.
Residential users on unmetered wells and users with no history of billable flow
shall have their billable flow estimated by averaging the BILLABLE FLOW of
other residential users of the same class.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Village of St.
Anne.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives sanitary or industrial sewage only, inside the
walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning three feet
outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SEWER. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives storm water or other clear water discharge, but
no wastewater, from soil and other drainage pipes inside the walls of a
building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning three feet outside the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. The extension from the building drain to the
public sewer or other place of disposal which conveys sanitary or industrial
sewage only (also called HOUSE OR SERVICE CONNECTION).
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal which conveys storm water or other clear water
drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage (also called HOUSE CONNECTION).
   CLERK or VILLAGE CLERK. The Clerk of the Village of St. Anne.
   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewaters
from individual point source discharges.
   COMBINED SEWAGE. A combination of both wastewater and storm or surface
water.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMMERCIAL USER. For the purpose of the user charge system, a user engaged
in the purchase or sale of goods, transaction of business, or otherwise renders
a service.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEPRECIATION. An annual operating cost reflecting capital consumption and
obsolescence (reduction of future service potential) of real and personal
properties.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   DISSOLVED SOLIDS. The concentration of matter in the sewage consisting of
colloidal particulate matter one micron in diameter or less, and both organic
and inorganic molecules and ions present in solution.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the authority.
   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   IEPA. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any nontreatable waste product including
nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. For the purpose of the user charge system, a manufacturing
or process facility which is engaged in a productive or profit-making venture.
   INFILTRATION. The water unintentionally entering the public sewer system,
including sanitary building drains and sewers, from the ground, through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from,
inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sanitary sewer system, including building
drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders,
cellar, yard, and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-
connections from storm sewers and/or combined sewers, catch basins, storm
waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage. INFLOW does not
include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewater
from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the village
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements; issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Federal Act.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, not
including debt service, but inclusive of expenditures attributable to
administration, replacement, treatment, and collection of wastewaters necessary
to ensure adequate wastewater collection and treatment on a continuing basis,
conform to applicable regulations, and assure optimal long-term facility
management.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group discharging any wastewater to the wastewater treatment facility.
   pH. The term used to express the intensity of the acid or base condition of
a solution, calculated by taking the logarithm of the reciprocal of the
hydrogen ion concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions,
in grams per liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7 and a pH value of seven.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately-owned
industrial sources prior to introduction of the waste effluent into a public
treatment works, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 128.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by the village.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one
and one-fourth centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the village.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
    REPLACEMENT RESERVE. An account for the segregation of resources to meet
replacement expenditures.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. For the purpose of the user charge system, a user whose
premises or building is used primarily as a domicile for one or more persons
and whose wastes originate from the normal living activities or its
inhabitants.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes and to
which storm, surface, and groundwater, are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including
polluted cooling water and unintentionally admitted infiltration/inflow.
      COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial sewage,
storm water, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater treatment
facilities by a combined sewer.
      INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes,
discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SHALL/MAY. Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. Any industry that will contribute greater than 10% of
the design flow and/or design pollutant loading of the treatment works.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in any quantity of flow which exceeds for any period of
duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation, and 40 C.F.R. Part 136, 3, 4, and 5, and/or other
recognized procedures by USEPA and IEPA.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, groundwater, or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids and is removable
by laboratory filtration as prescribed in Standard Methods.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentration of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The anticipated term in years of physical and/or functional
productivity of elements of and/or the whole wastewater treatment process,
which can be re-evaluated as a result of preventive maintenance, renewal which
offsets physical and/or functional obsolescence, renewal of capital elements
due to consumption, and physical and/or functional betterments, either direct
or indirect.
   USEPA. United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   USER CHARGE SYSTEM. The system of charges levied on users for the cost of
operation and maintenance, and replacement reserve requirements on now and old
wastewater collection/treatment facilities, pursuant to § 204(b) of Pub. Law
No. 92-500.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 500° centigrade for 15 minutes.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes
required to collect, transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and
dispose of the effluent and accumulated residual solids.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERWORKS. All facilities for water supply, treatment, storage reservoirs,
water lines, and services, and booster stations for obtaining, treating, and
distributing potable water.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 50.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF REVENUE SYSTEM.
   All unit charges levied by ordinance for the operation, maintenance, and
replacement of the village sewer system are hereby repealed and in lieu thereof
there shall be assessed to all users, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, a user charge.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 50.03 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The user charge for the use of and for the service supplied by the
sewer system of the village shall consist of a sewer charge for operation,
maintenance, and replacement.
   (B)   The basic sewer charge shall be applied to sewer usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes.
   (C)   Actual unit rates as described as follows are set forth in §
50.07.
      (1)   Budget and appropriation. The Trustee in charge of Water and
Wastewater Department appropriations shall, no less than once per annum,
prepare an estimate of anticipated costs for each category of user charge, as
outlined hereafter, for the forthcoming fiscal year. These estimates shall be
made in the form of a user charge rate ordinance and shall be proposed to the
Village Board for enactment by May 1 of each year.
      (2)   Operation and maintenance. Annual operation and maintenance costs
shall be determined for the sewer system.
      (3)   Replacement. Annual replacement costs shall be determined
sufficient to cover replacement of equipment, accessories, or appurtenances in
the sewer system owned by the village, as required, in order to assure
continued peak performance and maintain design capacity over the sewer system’s
useful life.
      (4)   Unit rates. The unit rate for the sewer charge shall be determined
by:
         (a)   Dividing estimated annual operation and maintenance costs by
estimated annual wastewater volume in thousand gallons;
         (b)   Dividing estimated annual replacement costs by estimated annual
wastewater volume in thousand gallons; and
         (c)   Adding content of divisions (C)(4)(a) and (C)(4)(b) above to
obtain the sewer charge unit rate per thousand gallons.
      (5)   Surcharge. A surcharge will be levied on all users who discharge
wastewaters exceeding normal domestic waste strengths of 200 mg/l BOD and 250
mg/l suspended solids. The surcharge will be calculated by applying the rates
to the pounds of BOD and suspended solids discharged above the normal domestic
waste strengths.
      (6)   Minimum charge. A minimum charge for provision of service shall be
applied to all users whose usage does not exceed 6,000 gallons per quarter.
      (7)   Notice of rates. Each user will be notified annually by the village
in conjunction with a regular bill, of the sewer user charge rate.
      (8)   Method of computation. The method for computation of rates and
service charges established for user charges in this section shall be made
available to a user within 30 days of receipt of a written request for such.
Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations thereof shall be
remedied by the Village Board within 60 days after notification of a formal
written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
      (9)   Billable flows. BILLABLE FLOW is the estimate of sewer usage as
recorded by water meters. All users shall be eligible to take a 10% credit for
nonreturned water if they pay within ten days of receipt of their bill. For
users paying after this ten-day period, billable flow shall be 100% of the
recorded water meter usage, unless an approved sewage meter is provided by the
user.
      (10)   Additional charges. Additional charges are as follows:
         (a)   Actual costs incurred for water meter inspection requested by
the user or as required for billing purposes;
         (b)   Actual costs incurred for handling a user’s check with
nonsufficient funds;
         (c)   Actual costs incurred for special handling not provided for
elsewhere in this chapter; and
         (d)   Sampling and laboratory costs for monitoring industrial users
for disclosures above domestic levels.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 50.04 SEWER BILL.
   (A)   (1)   The basic sewer bill for all users shall consist of sewer user
charges for operation, maintenance, and replacement, using the unit charges
described in §
50.03 applied to the user’s billable flow. Users shall be billed quarterly,
upon the same schedule that water billings are made. The basic sewer bill shall
be computed using the following formula:
 
CW = (Vu-X) CV + CS
 
Where   CW= Sewer bill for the billing period
Vu = Billable flow for the billing period (§
50.03(C)(9))
X = Minimum billable flow for the billing period (§
50.03(C)(6)). The entire term (Vu - X) is subject to the provisions of §
50.03(C)(6)
CV = User charge unit rate (§
50.07)
CS = Amount of surcharge (if applicable)
 
      (2)   The village shall reserve the right to require any user to meter
his or her flow.
   (B)   Any residential sewer user not connected to the village water system
shall pay a flat rate per billing period to be established by the village. All
nonresidential users shall be required to meter sewage flows.
   (C)   A one-time handling charge equal to 10% of charges due shall be added
to all charges due for sewer service if bill is not paid within 30 days of the
rendition of the statement.
   (D)   In the event that a customer has not paid sewer charges within 60 days
after the same is rendered, it shall be the duty of the proper officers of the
village to shut off the water supply to said customer until such time as all
past due bills for sewer service are fully paid, together with a service charge
of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for the restoration of water service; provided, that in cases of genuine
hardship, the Village Clerk or his or her designee may set up a monthly payment
schedule for such customer and avoid the necessity of shutting off water.
   (E)   Nonreceipt of any bill described in this section shall not release
liability of user for those charges. In any case where the user in responsible
for the nonreceipt of bill, the conditions herein described for late payment
and additional charges shall apply thereto. In any case where the village is
responsible for the nonreceipt of a bill, the village, at its discretion, may
grant the user an extension of any discount period and late payment conditions
described herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   All sewer charge monies shall be placed in the sewerage fund. Sewer
charge monies for the operation and maintenance shall be kept in separate
accounts from the monies collected from the replacement reserve. Sewer charge
funds shall be used to cover costs as outlined in §
50.03.
   (B)   Expenditures shall be made by the village management in accordance
with the detailed annual budget and ordinances authorized by the Village Board.
   (C)   Expenditures from the replacement reserve on facilities shall be for
making renewals to accommodate wear of physical elements and/or movable
property, which would result in an extended useful life or meet the anticipated
useful life.
   (D)   An audit shall be performed no less than once per annum. Such audit
shall be performed by a certified public accountant selected by the Village
Board.
   (E)   The USEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers, and records of the village which are applicable to
the village system of user charges for the purpose of making audit,
examination, excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the
terms of the federal regulations and conditions of the federal grant.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
§ 50.06 NONPAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   Whenever sewer bills become delinquent as set forth in §
50.04, the same shall become and constitute a lien upon the real estate to
which sewer service is supplied, pursuant to the terms and provisions of 65
ILCS 5/11-141-7 and 5/11-141-16. Statements rendered for such charge shall be
deemed notice to all parties, whether or not the person charged with the
statement is the owner of the property served. The claim for lien shall be made
in the form of a sworn statement selling out a description of the real estate,
sufficient for the identification thereof, upon or for which the sewerage
service was supplied, the amount or amounts of money due for such sewerage
service, and the date or dates when such amount or amounts became delinquent.
If all amounts shown due remain unpaid after recording as provided by law, the
village may foreclose such lien in like manner and with like effect as in the
foreclosure of mortgages on real estate. In the alternative, the village may,
in its discretion, file suit to collect such amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant or user of the real estate in a civil action, and shall
collect, as well, all attorney fees incurred by it, the same to be fixed by
order of the court. In addition to penalties and costs attributable and
chargeable to the recording of such notices of lien, user and owner shall be
liable for interest upon all unpaid balances after delinquency remaining from
time to time unpaid at the rate of 12% per annum.
   (B)   In all cases where the sewer service charge has become delinquent and
the village elects to file a statement thereof in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds as hereinabove set forth, there shall be added in addition to the amount
due the village such charges and expenses as are necessary and required to
verify the legal description of the property to which the lien is to attach,
plus a sum established by the Village Board as sufficient to cover the cost of
preparation of such notices and forms required. In each instance, the Clerk or
a duly appointed employee of the village shall be authorized and directed to
include such additional costs in the amount claimed due the village in the
notice of lien.
   (C)   The village reserves the right to revoke discharge permits and
disconnect service to any user whenever bills become delinquent.
   (D)   All amounts charged under this section and §
50.04 are due and shall continue to be due hereunder, whether or not said sewer
is disconnected, and no sewer shall be reconnected until the village is paid in
full for all amounts due to it and in addition, there shall be paid to the
village a deposit equal to the estimated charge for the next succeeding year.
Such deposit shall be held by the village in escrow, and will be returned upon
satisfactory payment of bills for a period of two years.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 USER CHARGE RATE.
   The following unit charge shall be applied to each user’s billable flow:
   (A)   The basic unit charge for operation, maintenance, and replacement
shall be in an amount as set forth in §
35.02 $3.34 per 1,000 gallons of water used; and
   (B)   A surcharge of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 shall be added to each sewer bill.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7) (Ord. passed 3-11-1996; Ord. passed 5-9-2005; Ord. 11-13-
2006)
§ 50.08 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined)
sewer of the village, is hereby required at his or her expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
within 90 days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said
public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
50.08, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Village
Clerk. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and
other information as are deemed necessary by the Village Clerk. A permit and
inspection fee of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Village Clerk. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Clerk when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours of the
receipt of written notice by the Clerk.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 255/1 et seq., and Code and with the
State Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than 40,000 square feet. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
50.08(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 90 days
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material such as clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the village.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed or required by any other
local governmental body, the state, or federal government.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-9) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   (B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential wastewater service; and
         (b)   For commercial, institutional/governmental, or industrial
wastewater service.
      (2)   In either class mentioned in division (C)(1) above, the owner or
his or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
village.
      (3)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Clerk. There shall be two categories of fees associated with the
application for sewer service.
         (a)   Category I: The village shall charge and receive from the
applicant a fee in the amount as set forth in §
35.02 for any connection to a pre-existing sewer lateral.
         (b)   Category II: The village shall charge and receive from the
applicant, a fee in the amount as set forth in §
35.02 for any new connection.
      (4)   In both cases mentioned in division (C)(3) above, said fee amounts
include an approval rate permit and inspection fee. Industrial users must
provide information describing their wastewater constituents, characteristics,
and type of activity.
   (D)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations, and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (E)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Director of Public Works,
to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in the state shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved in accordance with division (B) above, and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
    (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in the state. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Village Clerk
before installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Village
Clerk when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Clerk
or his or her representative.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-10) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 50.11 PUBLIC SEWER USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the village to a
storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following materials to any sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature high enough to create
damaging or adverse effects on the treatment process or to prevent compliance
with IEPA regulations;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million by weight of fat, oil, grease, or hexane extractable material;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other combustible,
flammable, or explosive liquid, solid, or gas of whatsoever kind or nature;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to: ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five-tenths or
higher than nine or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to sewers, structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage
works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing any toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or
as would constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or could create any hazard
in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the sewage treatment plant, except as may be permitted by
specific, written agreement with the District, which agreement may provide for
special charges, payments, or provisions of treating and testing equipment;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing radioactive material or
radioisotopes (giving off radiant energy in the form of alpha, beta, or gamma
rays) in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constituting a hazard to humans or animals, or creating any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (11)   Any amount of the following constituents exceeding that listed
below:
Material Amount
Material                Amount
Ammonia nitrogen, total 50 mg/l
Arsenic                 0.01 mg/l
Barium                  1 mg/l
Boron                   1 mg/l
Cadmium                 0.01 mg/l
Chlorides               250 mg/l
Chromium (hexavalent)   0.03 mg/l
Chromium, total         1 mg/l
Copper                  0.02 mg/l
Cyanide                 0.01 mg/l
Fluorides               1.4 mg/l
Iron, total             1.5 mg/l
Lead                    0.05 mg/l
Manganese               0.09 mg/l
Mercury                 0.0005 mg/l
Nickel                  1 mg/l
Phenols                 0.3 mg/l
Phosphorus              0.05 mg/l
Selenium                1 mg/l
Silver                  0.005 mg/l
Sulfate                 250 mg/l
Total solids            1,800 mg/l
Zinc                    1 mg/l
 
      (12)   (a)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this section, and/or which are in violation
of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. 403, June 26, 1978, and
any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the village may have a
deleterious effect upon any portion of the sewer system, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
            1.   Reject the wastes;
            2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers;
            3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
and/or
            4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions of
§
50.03.
         (b)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
      (13)   No provision of this section shall be construed to provide lesser
discharge standards than are presently or may hereafter be imposed and required
by USEPA or IEPA.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Director they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Public Works Director, and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (D)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (E)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when
required by the Public Works Director, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Public Works
Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (F)   (1)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
water and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by any regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
      (2)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the District to assure that
compliance with the federal, state, and local standards are being met. The
owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the
District at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the District. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting
required by the District.
   (G)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH’s are determined from periodic
grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-11) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-12) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the
village, the State Environmental Protection Agency, and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Public Works Director or duly authorized employees
of the village, the State Environmental Protection Agency, and the United
States Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the village employees and the village
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by village
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the
village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance or any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-13)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
50.12 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount as set forth in §
35.01 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-14) (Ord. passed 9-10-1984)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Water bill
   
51.02   Water service restrictions
   
51.03   Pipe specifications
   
51.04   Service pipes; requirements
   
51.05   Meters
   
51.06   Water rates
   
51.07   Connections to water mains
   
51.08   Private water systems
   
51.09   Infrastructure fee
   
51.10   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 WATER BILL.
   (A)   Registration. All current property owners to which the village
supplies water must register their name, village address, mailing address, and
current phone number with the village within 30 days of receiving notice of
this section. All property owners subsequent to the date of this section must
register the same at the time the application to have water turned on is
submitted to the village. There is no fee to register.
    (B)   Application. Application to have water turned on shall be made to the
village office and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and
accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of
the village water supply by the applicant.
   (C)   Deposit. A water service deposit of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 shall be made with each application for water service, this sum to be
retained by the village to ensure the payment of all bills until all such bills
have been paid and to be refunded when service is discontinued if all bills
have been paid. When service to the applicant is discontinued permanently this
deposit, less any amount still due the village for water service, shall be
refunded without interest.
   (D)   Flat rate charge when no water meter installed. When no water meter
has been installed by the village, the fee charged for water service shall be
the flat fee established by the President and Board of Trustees for minimum
consumption.
   (E)   Billing procedure.
      (1)   All bills for service shall be rendered monthly as of the first
business day of the month succeeding the period for which the service is
billed, and shall be payable not later than the close of business on the tenth
business day of the same month.
      (2)   All bills shall be rendered to the owner of the premises and the
owner of the premises shall be responsible for timely payment thereof.
      (3)   All bills for services rendered shall be deemed notice to all
parties, whether or not the person charged with the statement is the occupant
or user of the property served.
   (F)   Liability for payment.
      (1)   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of
the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service on the
premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the service
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
      (2)   If payment of the full amount of the bill is not made within that
period, then a penalty of 12% per annum of the balance due shall be an
additional charge due on the bill. The said 12% per annum additional charge
shall accrue for each monthly period on the then current amount and delinquent
balance.
      (3)   Nonreceipt of any bill described in this section shall not release
liability of use for those charges. In any case where the user is responsible
for the nonreceipt of bill, the conditions herein described for late payment
and additional charges shall apply thereto. In any case where the village is
responsible for the nonreceipt of a bill, the village, at its discretion, may
grant the user an extension of any discount period and late payment conditions
described herein.
   (G)   Duties of Treasurer regarding water revenues.
      (1)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all revenues from the combined
waterworks system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of
this system as they may be delivered to him or her and deposit them in a
separate fund designated as the Water Fund of the village. The Treasurer shall
administer the fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute.
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts
and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and
correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the combined
waterworks and sewerage system.
      (3)   At regular annual intervals, the Village Treasurer shall cause to
be made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the
receipts and disbursements of the combined waterworks system.
   (H)   Discontinuing service for nonpayment of bill.
      (1)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of an amount as set forth in §
35.02.
   (I)   Lien for unpaid bill.
      (1)   Whenever a bill for water and sewer service remains unpaid 60 days
after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with the County Recorder
a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description
of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the
village claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for water
served subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
       (2)   In all cases where the water service charge has become delinquent
and the village elects to file a statement thereof in the office of Recorder of
Deeds as hereinabove set forth, there shall be added in addition to the amount
due the village such charges and expenses as are necessary and required to
verify the legal description of the Village Board as sufficient to cover the
cost of preparation of such notices and forms required. In each instance, the
Clerk or a duly appointed employee of the village shall be authorized and
directed to include such additional costs in the amount claimed due the village
in the notice of lien.
      (3)   In addition to penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
the recording of such notices of lien, the user and owner shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 12% per annum.
   (J)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   Property subject to a lien for an unpaid water and sewer bill shall
be sold for nonpayment of the bill and the proceeds of the sale shall be
employed to pay the outstanding bill, after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens.
      (2)   The foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the
village.
      (3)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
lien foreclosure proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters, against any property for which the bill for
water or sewer service has remained unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
   (K)   File suit for collection.
      (1)   In the alternative, the village may, in its discretion file suit to
collect such amounts as are delinquent and due against the occupant or use of
the real estate in a civil action, and shall collect, as well, all attorney
fees incurred by it, the same to be fixed by order of the court.
      (2)   In addition, the user and owner shall be liable for interest upon
all unpaid balances at the rate or 12% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. passed 10-12-2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 WATER SERVICE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No water from the village water supply shall be turned on for service
into any premises by any person but the Superintendent of Public Works or some
other person authorized by him or her to perform this service.
   (B)   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from
the village water supply to any premises other than that for which application
has been made and the water installed, except in case of emergency.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the village to
tamper with, alter, or injure any part of the village waterworks or supply
system, or any meter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 1-77, passed 5-10-1976; Ord. passed 10-12-2009)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PIPE SPECIFICATIONS.
   All water service pipes from the main to the meter shall be not less than
three-fourths of an inch in size. Only extra strong heavy copper plastic pipe,
type K, shall be used to connect the meter with the mains. All such service of
installation shall be at the cost of the owner of the property to be served, or
by the applicant for the service.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. passed 8-14-1995)
§ 51.04 SERVICE PIPES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All repairs on service pipes from the mains to the curb stop shall be
at the expense of the village; from the curb stop to the plumbing system of
buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises
served. The village may, in the case of emergency, repair any service pipe, and
if this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the village by
the owner of the premises served.
   (B)   Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe,
and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is
practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible,
and shall be protected from frost.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 1-77, passed 5-10-1976)
§ 51.05 METERS.
   (A)   The residents of property upon which meters are installed will be held
responsible for any wilful or malicious damage to such meters and such
residents will also be held responsible for any damage sustained by freezing or
caused by hot water backing through the same, and must bear all cost of
repairing meters, when the same become damaged through any of the causes
designated herein.
   (B)   In all installations of water service hereinafter provided by the
village in multiple housing, each apartment unit must have installed a separate
water meter regardless of the number of units that accept water from a single
line to the main.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 1-77, passed 5-10-1976)
§ 51.06 WATER RATES.
   Users of water from the village water supply system shall pay therefor at
the following rates.
   (A)   For ordinary residential properties, the rate shall be the current
year’s Board approved rate. ORDINARY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES shall be defined as
single-family homes or multifamily homes consisting of three or less units. Any
residential property consisting of four units or more shall be billed at the
commercial rate as indicated herein.
   (B)   For qualifying senior citizen property owners, the rate shall be the
current year’s Board approved rate.
   (C)   For commercial and industrial properties:
      (1)   All other commercial and industrial properties shall be charged the
current year’s Board approved rate.
   (D)   A late penalty of 10% of the amount of the bill will be charged on all
bills paid after ten days from the date thereof.
   (E)   Service charges to a recipient whose installation is outside the
limits of the village shall be the customary fee for usage in accordance with
the rates set forth above, plus an additional charge of 20% of the computed
rate so determined.
   (F)   The water supply may be shut off from any premises for which the water
bill remains unpaid for 30 days after the date thereof, and if the water is
again turned on and connected, there shall be a service fee charge in an amount
as set forth in §
35.02 for the same, to be paid to the village in advance by the person
requesting the reconnection.
   (G)   For all accounts existing prior to the enactment of this section as
amended, the legal owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the users
of the services shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to
such premises, and all future services shall be furnished to the premises by
the village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises be solely
responsible to the village for all charges relating to water service.
   (H)   In the event such charges for services are not paid within 30 days
after the rendition of the bill for water services, such charges shall be
deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter such delinquent
charges shall constitute liens upon the real estate upon for which the services
have been supplied. The village may file sworn statements showing such
delinquencies in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, which shall
be deemed notice of the lien for payment of such service. This statement shall
contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount as well as
for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill; provided,
however, the village may refrain from filing such statement of delinquencies if
the village proposes to sue or shall have sued the owner, occupant, or user of
real estate in a civil action to recover such delinquent charges.
    (I)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises,
notice shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if the address is known,
whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period of 30 days after it has been
rendered.
   (J)   The failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing
section.
   (K)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the village.
The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid for 30
days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) (Ord. 13-5, passed 11-11-2013; Ord. 20-02, passed 7-13-
2020) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 CONNECTIONS TO WATER MAINS.
   (A)   Application. Applications shall be in accordance with §
51.01.
   (B)   Permit required. A water connection permit shall be required for the
connection of any premises to a water main. The permit shall be issued by the
Superintendent of Public Works upon compliance of the applicant with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Connection fee. There shall be two categories of fees assessed for
each connection to the village water main. Adjustments to these fees shall be
made from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees when, in their
judgment, such adjustments are necessary.
      (1)   Category I. The village shall charge and receive from the applicant
the sum of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for any connection to a preexisting water service.
      (2)   Category II. The village shall charge and receive from the
applicant the sum of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for any new connection to the water main.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-8) (Ord. passed 8-14-1995; Ord. passed 10-12-2009)
§ 51.08 PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public water system is not available under the provisions of §
51.07, the building on any lot shall be connected to a private water well
complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of the construction of a private water well the
owner of the property shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Village
Clerk. The application for such permit shall be made on the form furnished by
the village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications,
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed. A
permit for a private water well shall not become effective until the
installation of the well is completed to the satisfaction of the Public Works
Director.
   (D)   The owner shall allow the Public Works Director to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Public Works Director when the work is ready for final inspection,
and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 72 hours of the receipt of written notice by the Public Works Director.
   (E)   The type, capacities, location, and all other specifications of a
private water well shall comply with all recommendations of the State
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (F)   At such time as the public water system becomes available to property
served by a private water well, as provided in §
51.07, a direct connection shall be made to the public water system within 90
days in compliance with this chapter, and any private water wells shall be
capped and abandoned.
   (G)   No statement in this section shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements which may be imposed or required by any other local
governmental body, the state, or the federal government.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-9) (Ord. passed 10-13-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 INFRASTRUCTURE FEE.
   All current property owners to which the village supplies water shall pay an
infrastructure fee each month in an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for the upkeep and maintenance of the village water system. Said fee
shall be incorporated into the monthly utility bill, and paid in accordance
with the provisions of the water bill. All other provisions of the water bill
shall apply as though fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-10) (Ord. passed 7-12-2010)
§ 51.10 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. Except for such uses or methods in existence prior to the
effective date hereof, the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply
groundwater from within 200 feet of the village water supply, by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited.
This prohibition expressly includes the village.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-11) (Ord. passed 11-10-2012) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined in an amount as set forth in §
35.01 each offense.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the landowner to notify the Board
of Trustees that a tenant has vacated the premises of a rental unit. Failure to
so notify the Board of Trustees within 15 days of vacancy shall subject the
landowner to penalties, including, but not limited to, payment of all
outstanding balances due the village for utilities.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
51.10 shall be subject to a fine in an amount as set forth in §
35.01 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-11)
(Ord. passed 5-12-1997; Ord. passed 11-10-2012)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Disposal of rubbish
   
52.03   Containers provided
   
52.04   Use of receptacles
   
52.05   Collection fees
Cross-reference:
   Dumping rubbish, see §
91.41
   Garbage and rubbish collectors, see §§
115.20 through
115.23
   Garbage declared a nuisance, see §
91.42
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All organic household kitchen wastes, such as rejected or unused
food and food residues and paper necessary for wrapping.
    REFUSE, BURNABLE. Combustible rubbish such as papers, boxes, brush, and
leaves and any other rubbish or waste resulting from the operation of a
domestic or business establishment such as tree trimmings, debris from building
construction, repair or remodeling, discarded equipment, and similar waste.
   REFUSE, NONBURNABLE. Inorganic incombustible household waste, such as tin
cans, ashes, metalware, bottles, broken glass, crockery, stoneware, and similar
refuse resulting from the regular operation of a household, not classified as
garbage.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. passed 2-8-1993)
§ 52.02 DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH.
   The owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village shall remove
from said premises or otherwise dispose of all ashes, tin cans, metalware,
broken glass, crockery, stoneware, manure, and all refuse and rubbish of every
description whatsoever, and shall keep said premises at all times free and
clear of any accumulation of such rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. passed 7-9-1962)
§ 52.03 CONTAINERS PROVIDED.
   The owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village, upon which
shall accumulate any garbage, ashes, or household rubbish, shall provide or
cause to be provided, and shall maintain clean and in good repair, adequate
separate receptacles of the following material, construction, and capacity.
   (A)   Receptacles for garbage shall be in a suitable container with a close
fitting cover, shall be watertight, and shall have a capacity of not less than
six and not more than 15 gallons.
   (B)   Receptacles for ashes shall be metal, shall have a capacity of not
less than 20 and not more than 40 gallons, and shall be provided with suitable
handles for carrying.
   (C)   Receptacles for household rubbish shall be of metal, wood, or plastic
of adequate strength, shall have a capacity of not less than six and not more
than 40 gallons, and shall be provided with suitable handles for carrying.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) (Ord. passed 7-9-1962)
§ 52.04 USE OF RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every occupant or lessee of any premises in
the village to cause all garbage and nothing but garbage, as defined in this
chapter, to be deposited in the receptacle or receptacles provided for garbage.
Ashes and household rubbish and nothing but such as defined in this chapter
shall be deposited in the receptacle or receptacles provided for the same;
provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for any owner, occupant, or
lessee of any premises in the village to dispose of any garbage, ashes, or
household rubbish which may be produced on his or her own premises when such
disposal is accomplished in a manner which does not create a nuisance or cause
annoyance or discomfort to the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Every occupant or lessee of any premises in the village shall place
all receptacles for garbage and household rubbish outside the residence or
other building in an accessible place, and at ground level and near the street
or alley line no earlier than 24 hours prior to the scheduled day for garbage
pick up. All receptacles for garbage and household rubbish shall be removed
from the street or alley line no later than 24 hours after the scheduled day
for garbage pick up. This division (B) does not apply to commercial dumpsters.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4) (Ord. passed 7-9-1962; Ord. passed 4-10-1995)
§ 52.05 COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   The fees for collection of rubbish are hereby fixed as follows:
      (1)   For a residence, the amount of cost for garbage pick up shall be
the rate based on the Board approved rate. A RESIDENCE is hereby defined to be
any dwelling, place of abode, flat, or apartment occupied by persons living
together as a single household unit, included is a place of abode occupied by
one person.
      (2)   Rubbish collection for business establishments and institutions
shall be privately contracted and said businesses and institutions shall not be
assessed a fee for collection under this chapter. All rates established by the
independent contractor shall be furnished to the Village Board for periodic
review not less than annually.
      (3)   Charges shall be for a full month if service is started before the
fifteenth day of said month.
   (B)   Said collection charges will therefore be payable monthly, and at 10%.
Penalties shall be added to the monthly charge if the bill is not paid within
ten days after issuance of same. Said charges as enumerated shall constitute a
lien upon the premises from which they are collected.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-5) (Ord. passed 4-12-1993; Ord. passed 5-9-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
CHAPTER 70: MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
Section
   
70.01   Adopted by reference.
§ 70.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code, and all amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference, and are on file with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 16-03, passed 7-11-2016; Ord. 16-06, passed 8-8-2016; Ord. 21-03, passed
8-9-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   VILLAGE PARKS AND PROPERTY
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Running at large prohibited
   
90.02   Impoundment
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals
Dogs
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Running at large; impoundment
   
90.17   Owner responsible
   
90.18   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons
   
90.19   Dangerous dogs
   
90.20   Dogs declared nuisances
   
90.21   Destruction of unredeemed dogs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The running at large of any cattle, horses, mules, asses, sheep,
goats, and swine, or being loose or the herding or pasturing of any such
animals upon any public ways within the limits of the village is hereby
declared a nuisance and prohibited.
   (B)   The owner or person having or entitled to the custody or possession of
any such animals mentioned in this section shall be subject to a fine for each
time any such animals are so found loose and running at large within the
village, or being herded or pastured upon any of the village ways.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 10, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every such animal as aforesaid shall be seized and penned up by the Chief of
Police or other appointed person in some secure place where such animals will
be fed and watered until otherwise disposed of. Should said animals remain
unclaimed, the same shall be sold at public sale and the proceeds, after the
payment of all costs of such keep, shall be turned over to the village
treasury. Should said animals be claimed, the same shall be returned to the
rightful owner upon the payment of all costs expended by the village in keeping
said animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhumanely, unnecessarily, or cruelly
beat, injure, or otherwise use any animal or inhumanely restrain any animal, or
to be found guilty of aiding at or abetting at a bullfight, dog or cock fight,
or similar offense, or to encourage the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 5, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. When an animal is off the premises of its owner and not under the
control of a responsible person.
   DOG. Includes all members of the canine family three months or more of age,
and also pet foxes and wolves.
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in a dog, or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has a dog in his or her care or who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or
her. A person shall not have more than six dogs on his or her premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 1-73, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 90.16 RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog found running at large will be apprehended and impounded, and this
may be done by any sheriff, police officer, or other village official. Notice
of the apprehension and impounding of any dog shall be given to the owner, if
known, stating that the dog must be redeemed within five days; and if no one
claims said dog within said period, such dog shall be humanely dispatched or
disposed of by the police as a stray dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 1-73, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 90.17 OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper unless the dog is under complete control of a
responsible person. Any person violating this subchapter by letting his or her
dog run at large and not in control shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and will
be responsible for any charges from the County Animal Control.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 1-73, passed 3-12-1973) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded, and
kept separated from other dogs for 14 days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed, in such manner, however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the
diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case such dog cannot
be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to preserve
the head intact, which shall thereupon be immediately detached and be delivered
to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If at the expiration of the period of 14 days, no symptoms of rabies
have developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner
upon payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this subchapter;
provided, however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting any person,
shall have previously bitten any person, such dog, shall be humanely destroyed
by the poundkeeper. After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten
or otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not under
any circumstances permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. passed 8-14-2000)
§ 90.19 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Criteria. The following criteria are to be used to define a dog as
potentially DANGEROUS:
      (1)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person upon
the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property in a menacing fashion
or apparent attitude of attack;
      (2)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury, or to otherwise threaten the safety of human
beings or domestic animals; or
      (3)   Any dog which, on three separate occasions within a 12-month period
has been observed being unrestrained or uncontrolled off its owner’s premises
by an animal control officer or has been impounded by an animal control officer
for being unrestrained or uncontrolled off its owner’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6)
   (B)   Determination hearing.
      (1)   A determination hearing shall be conducted by the Animal
Commissioner whenever there is cause to believe a dog may be dangerous as
defined in division (A) above. Said hearing shall be conducted within five days
of service notice to the owner by certified letter. Pending the outcome of such
a hearing, the dog must be securely confined in a humane manner either on the
premises of the owner, with a licensed veterinarian, or at the county’s animal
pound.
      (2)   The Animal Commissioner shall determine whether to declare the
animal to be dangerous based upon evidence and testimony presented at the time
of the hearing by the owner, witnesses to any incident which may be considered
germane to such a determination, Health Department personnel, animal control
personnel, police, or any other person possessing information pertinent to such
determination. The animal commissioner shall issue written findings within five
days after the determination hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6-1)
   (C)   Characteristics. The following characteristics should automatically
characterize a dog as dangerous, and no hearing is required:
      (1)   Any dog which, according to the records of the appropriate
authority, has inflicted severe injury on a human being without provocation on
public or private property;
      (2)   Any dog which, according to the records of the appropriate
authority has killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner’s property; and/or
      (3)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily in part for the purpose of
dogfighting or any dog trained for dogfighting.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6-2)
   (D)   Exceptions to being declared dangerous.
      (1)   No dog may be declared dangerous if the threat, injury, or damage
was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a wilful trespass or
other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog, or was
teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been
observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog,
or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      (2)   No dog may be declared dangerous if such dog is used in law
enforcement activities.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6-3)
   (E)   Owner’s obligation. Any dog declared dangerous by a hearing or by the
characteristics defined in division (C) above must:
      (1)   While on the owner’s property be securely confined indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to prevent the entry of
young children and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or
structure must have minimum dimensions of five feet by ten feet and must have
secure sides and a secure top. If it has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides must be embedded into the ground no less than two feet; and
      (2)   When off the owner’s premises be muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length and under the
control of a responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6-4)
   (F)   Warning signs required for premises. The owner or keeper of a
dangerous dog shall display a sign on his or her premises warning that there is
a dangerous dog on the property. This sign shall be visible and capable of
being read from the street running past the property. In addition, the owner
shall conspicuously display a sign with a symbol warning children of the
presence of a dangerous dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6-5)
   (G)   Insurance required. The owner or keeper of a dangerous dog shall
present to the Village Clerk proof that the owner or keeper has procured
liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000 covering the 12-month
period during which licensing is sought. This policy shall contain a provision
requiring the village to be named as an additional insured for the sole purpose
of the village’s notification by the insurance company of any cancellation,
termination, or expiration of the policy.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6-6)
(Ord. passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 DOGS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   Any dog which may in any manner continually disturb the quiet of any persons
or neighborhoods or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal, plant,
shrub, or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper, or shall
bite any person; is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be
taken up and impounded and may be redeemed, or disposed of in the manner
provided for under §
90.21 .
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. passed 8-14-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 DESTRUCTION OF UNREDEEMED DOGS.
   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within seven days shall be
humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the Animal Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) (Ord. passed 8-14-2000)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.19 through
90.21 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of an amount as set forth in §
35.01. If a violation continues, each day’s violation shall be deemed a
separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6-7) (Ord. passed 8-14-2000)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances, Generally
   
91.01   Chief of Police
   
91.02   Notice to abate nuisances
   
91.03   Assistance
   
91.04   Depositing nauseous substances
   
91.05   Slaughtering animals, rendering lard
   
91.06   Obstructing streets
   
91.07   Offensive premises; owner liable
   
91.08   Undefined nuisances; abatement
Nuisance Property
   
91.20   Applicability
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Remedy
   
91.23   Abatement of nuisance
   
91.24   Procedure
   
91.25   Commencement of action; burden of proof
   
91.26   Emergency closing procedures
Weeds and Rubbish
   
91.40   Burning
   
91.41   Dumping rubbish
   
91.42   Nuisance declared
   
91.43   Prohibition of excessive grass and weed growth
   
91.44   Exceptions
   
91.45   Prohibition of dumping or causing grass or weed clipping upon public
property
   
91.46   Abatement procedures for excessive grass and weed growth
   
91.47   Notice of violation
   
91.48   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NUISANCES, GENERALLY
§ 91.01 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment; compensation. There shall be appointed annually by the
President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, a suitable person as a
Chief of Police, who shall hold his or her office for one year; and he or she
shall receive such salary or compensation as the Board of Trustees shall
prescribe.
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to carry out all
the orders of the Board of Trustees in relation to the sanitary regulations of
the village and cause all nuisances to be abated with reasonable promptness;
and for the purpose of carrying out the foregoing requirements, he or she shall
be permitted at all times, from sunrise to sunset, to enter into any house,
store, stable, or other building and cause the floor to be raised if necessary,
in order to allow a thorough examination of cellars, vaults, sinks, or drains;
to enter upon all lots or grounds and to cause all stagnant waters to be drawn
off, and pools, sinks, vaults, drains, cellars, or low grounds to be cleansed,
filled up, or otherwise improved or amended; to cause all privies to be
cleansed and kept in good condition; and to cause all dead animals or other
nauseous or unwholesome things or substances to be buried or removed beyond the
limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. passed 4-10-1899)
§ 91.02 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCES.
   In order to carry out the provisions of §
91.01, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to serve notice in writing
upon the owner, occupant, or agent of any premises upon which a nuisance may be
found requiring him or her to abate the same within a reasonable time. Upon
proper cause, such Chief of Police shall at all times comply with the BOCA
Basic Housing Property Maintenance Code in accordance with §
150.01. If such owner, occupant, or agent shall neglect or refuse to comply
with the requirements of such order within the time specified, he or she shall
be subject to the appropriate fine of §
10.99 for every such violation. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
proceed at once upon the expiration of the time specified in the notice, to
cause such nuisance to be abated and the expense of abatement of all nuisances
shall be collected by suit in the name of the village and against the owner or
the occupant of the premises or author of said nuisance, as the case of money
paid at his or her request.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 91.03 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the police force to aid the Chief of Police in
carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 91.04 DEPOSITING NAUSEOUS SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
    (A)   To deposit, throw, or discharge or leave any nauseous, foul,
offensive, or putrid liquid, substance, or excrement, or any liquid or
substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive, or putrid within the
village, so as to be or likely to become injurious to the health or comfort of
any person residing within the village; and/or
   (B)   To throw, place, or conduct into any street, avenue, alley, lot,
field, ground, or place in the village any putrid or unsound beef, pork, meat,
fish, skins, hides, filth, offal, dead animals, vegetables, or other
unwholesome or offensive substance whatever or anything likely to become
offensive. If any person so throwing, placing, conducting, or depositing any
such substance as aforesaid, or suffering the same to be done shall not remove
the same within 24 hours after notice to that effect given him or her by any
officer of the village, the same shall be removed by the Chief of Police or
under his or her direction and at the cost and charge of the person so failing
to remove the same to be recovered in the name of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 SLAUGHTERING ANIMALS, RENDERING LARD.
   No person shall slaughter or dress any cattle, calves, sheep, or swine; or
steam, boil, or render any tallow, lard, fat, or grease of any kind within the
limits of the village; nor shall suffer or allow any blood, bones, offal,
filth, or other offensive matter to be on or about his or her premises or place
of abode or in or about any outhouse, stable, privy, or other place owned or
occupied by him or her within the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   No person shall place or throw any stones, sticks, logs, stumps, manure, or
other rubbish or material in or upon any street, avenue, alley, or public place
within the village so as to obstruct travel or endanger life. No person shall
climb on or cause the destruction of property; or throw or deposit manure,
ashes, dirt, or rubbish of any kind in the gutters of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 6, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 OFFENSIVE PREMISES; OWNER LIABLE.
   (A)   Offensive premises; abatement. 
      (1)   Any building or premises, or part thereof, either public or
private, enclosed or not enclosed, within the village, which may be nauseous or
offensive to any person or family, or to persons passing along any street or
alley near thereby, or which may be in such condition as to be detrimental or
injurious to the public health or comfort, or which may be kept in an unclean
or unsanitary condition, or which may be kept in such manner as to be a fire
hazard, shall be deemed a nuisance and any owner or occupant, or agent of such
premises who shall neglect or refuse to abate such nuisance after notice to do
so by the President of the Board of Trustees, or by any member of the police
force of the village shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   If a nuisance as created by this section is not abated after five
days’ notice by the President of the Board of Trustees, or any member of the
police force of the village, then said nuisance may be abated by the
authorities of the village, and the cost of abating said nuisance shall be
charged against the person creating such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
   (B)   Owner of premises liable. When any nuisance or anything likely to
become a nuisance may be found upon any premises and the owner, author, or
cause of such nuisance is unknown or cannot be found, the owner, occupant, or
agent of such premises shall be notified by any officer of the village to abate
the same; and if such owner or his or her agent or occupant shall not comply
with such notice, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
(Ord. passed 6-15-1939) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 UNDEFINED NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   In all cases where no provision is herein made defining what are nuisances
and how the same may be removed, abated, or prevented in addition to what may
be declared such herein, those offenses which are known to the common law of
the land and the state statutes as nuisances shall, in case the same exist
within the village limits, be treated as such and proceeded against as in this
chapter provided, and the notice herein provided, when not otherwise stated as
to length of time, shall be a reasonable time, and if such notice is not
complied with by the proper person, then in all cases not otherwise provided
for, the Chief of Police shall cause any nuisance to be removed or abated. The
expenses which may be incurred by said Chief of Police in the removal or
abatement thereof shall be chargeable to such persons offending, to be
collected by suit in the name of the village in addition to the fine or penalty
otherwise provided for.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) (Ord. 6, passed 4-10-1899)
NUISANCE PROPERTY
§ 91.20 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any certain property within the village which becomes a chronic
nuisance property is in violation of this subchapter and is subject to its
remedies.
   (B)   Any person in charge who permits property under his or her ownership
or control to be a public nuisance shall be in violation of this chapter and
subject to its remedies.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-1) (Ord. passed 4-8-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Property upon which three or more behaviors
listed below have occurred during any 60-day period, as a result of any three
separate factual events that have been independently investigated by any law
enforcement agency:
      (1)   DISORDERLY CONDUCT, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/26-1;
      (2)   UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.;
      (3)   MOB ACTION, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/25-1;
      (4)   DISCHARGE OF A FIREARM, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/24-1.2 and 1.5;
      (5)   GAMBLING, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/28-1;
      (6)   POSSESSION, MANUFACTURE, OR DELIVERY OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, as
defined in 720 ILCS 570/401 et seq.;
      (7)   ASSAULT or BATTERY or any related offense, as defined in 720 ILCS
5/12-1 et seq.;
      (8)   SEXUAL ABUSE or related offense, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-1.50
et seq.;
      (9)   PUBLIC INDECENCY, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-30;
      (10)   PROSTITUTION, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq.;
      (11)   CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/21-1 et
seq.;
      (12)   POSSESSION, CULTIVATION, MANUFACTURE, OR DELIVERY OF CANNABIS, as
defined in the state statutes;
      (13)   ILLEGAL CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL, as defined in 235
ILCS 5/1 et seq.; and/or
      (14)   Violation of this code relative to garbage, weeds, or abandoned
vehicles.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having any legal or equitable
interest in the property. OWNER includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   A mortgagee in possession of or a person who is vested in:
         (a)   All or part of the legal title to the property; or
         (b)   All or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to the
present use and enjoyment of the premises.
      (2)   An occupant who can control what occurs on the property.
   PERMIT. To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
   PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, or corporation capable
of owning or using property in the village.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including, but not limited to, an owner or occupant of property under
his or her domain, ownership, or control.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental, or pertinent to land, including, but not limited to, any premises,
room, house, building, or structure or any separate part or portion thereof,
whether permitted or not.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-2) (Ord. passed 4-8-2002)
§ 91.22 REMEDY.
   (A)   In the event a court determines property to be a chronic nuisance
property, the court may order that the property be closed and secured against
all use and occupancy for a period of not less than 30 days, but not more than
180 days, or the court may employ any other remedy deemed by it to be
appropriate to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   In addition to the remedy provided in division (A) above, the court
may impose upon the owner of the property a civil penalty in the amount as set
forth in §
35.01, payable to the village for each day the owner had actual knowledge that
the property was a public nuisance property and permitted the property to
remain public nuisance property.
   (C)   In determining what remedy or remedies shall employ, the court may
consider evidence of other conduct which has occurred on the property,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The disturbance of neighbors;
      (2)   The recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises; and
      (3)   Repeated consumption of alcohol in public.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-3) (Ord. passed 4-8-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   The corporation counsel of the village or the State Attorney of the county
may commence an action to abate public nuisance as described above. Upon being
satisfied of affidavits or other sworn evidence that an alleged public nuisance
exists, the court may without notice or bond enter a temporary restraining
order or a preliminary injunction to enjoin any defendant from maintaining such
nuisance and may enter an order restraining any defendant from removing or
interfering with all property used in connection with the public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-4) (Ord. passed 4-8-2002)
§ 91.24 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When the Chief of Police of the village receives two or more police
reports documenting the occurrence of nuisance activity on or within a
property, the Chief of Police shall independently review such reports to
determine whether they describe criminal acts. Upon such findings, the Chief
may:
      (1)   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property is in
danger of becoming a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property; and
         (b)   A statement that the Chief of Police has information that the
property may be a chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the
nuisance activities that may exist, or that have occurred. The Chief of Police
shall offer the person in charge an opportunity to propose a course of action
that the Chief of Police agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise
to the violation.
      (2)   Demand that the person in charge respond to the Chief of Police
within ten days to discuss the nuisance activities.
   (B)   After complying with the notification procedures described herein,
when the Chief of Police receives a police report documenting the occurrence of
a third nuisance activity at or within a property and determines that the
property has become a chronic nuisance property, the Chief of Police shall:
      (1)   Notify the person in charge in writing that the property has been
determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property; and
         (b)   A statement that the Chief of Police has determined the property
to be chronic nuisance property with a concise description of the nuisance
activities leading to his or her findings.
      (2)   Demand that the person in charge respond within ten days to the
Chief of Police and propose a course of action that the Chief of Police agrees
will abate the nuisance. Service shall be made either personally or by first
class mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the person
in charge at the address of the property believed to be a chronic nuisance
property, or such other place where the person in charge is known to be.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-5) (Ord. passed 4-8-2002)
§ 91.25 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   In an action seeking closure of a chronic nuisance property, the
village shall have the initial burden of showing by preponderance of the
evidence that the property is a chronic nuisance property.
    (B)   It is a defense to an action seeking the closure of chronic nuisance
property that the owner of the property at the time in question could not, in
the exercise of reasonable care and diligence, determine that the property had
become a public nuisance property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of
reasonable care and diligence, control the conduct leading to the findings that
the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   (C)   In establishing the amount of civil penalty requested, the court may
consider any of the following factors if they need to be found appropriate, and
shall cite those found applicable:
      (1)   The actions or lack of action taken by the person in charge to
mitigate or correct the problem at the property;
      (2)   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous;
      (3)   The magnitude or gravity of the problem;
      (4)   The cooperation of the person in charge with the village; and/or
      (5)   The cost of the village investigating and correcting or attempting
to correct the condition.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-6) (Ord. passed 4-8-2002)
§ 91.26 EMERGENCY CLOSING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In the event that it is determined that the property is an immediate
threat to the public safety and welfare, the village may apply to the court for
such interim relief, as is deemed by the Chief of Police to be appropriate. In
such an event, the notification provision set forth in §
91.24 need not be complied with; however, the village shall make a diligent
effort to notify the person in charge prior to a court hearing.
   (B)   In the event that the court finds the property constitutes a CHRONIC
NUISANCE PROPERTY as defined in this subchapter, the court may order the remedy
set out in division (A) above. In addition, in the event that it also finds the
person in charge had knowledge of activities or conditions of the property
constituting or violating this chapter and permitted the activities to occur,
the court may assess a civil fine as provided above.
   (C)   The court may authorize the village to physically secure the property
against use or occupancy in the event the owner fails to do so within the time
specified by the court. In the event that the village is authorized to secure
the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the village to effect a closure
shall be made and assessed as a lien against the property. If used herein,
COSTS mean those costs actually incurred by the village for the physical
securing of the property, as well as tenant relocation costs.
   (D)   The Village Public Works Department effecting the closure shall
prepare a statement of cost and the village shall thereafter submit said
statement to the court for its review. If no objection of the statement is made
within the period described by the court, a lien in said amount may be recorded
against said property.
   (E)   Any person who is assigned the cost of closure and/or civil penalty by
the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof by the village.
   (F)   (1)   A tenant is entitled to their reasonable relocation costs, as
those are determined by the court, if, without actual notice, the tenant moved
into the property, after either:
         (a)   The owner or tenant received notice as described herein of the
Police Chief’s determination as described above; or
         (b)   Unknown owner or other agent received notice of an action
brought pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Any person who is assessed with costs of closure and/or civil
penalty by the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to the
village.
(Prior Code, § 7-2A-7) (Ord. passed 4-8-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS AND RUBBISH
§ 91.40 BURNING.
   The conditions of burning shall be as follows.
   (A)   Burning prohibited. It shall be unlawful to light or maintain any open
or contained fire anywhere in the village, except as listed in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The village may conduct outdoor leaf and brush burning on publicly
owned property, which burning shall be supervised by an officer or employee of
the village and shall be executed in a safe manner.
      (2)   It shall not be a violation of this section if said fire is
contained in a grill for cooking or in a covered unit for recreational
campfires.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 DUMPING RUBBISH.
   (A)   No person shall throw, place, leave, or suffer to be thrown, placed,
or left any garbage, ashes, household rubbish, miscellaneous rubbish, manure,
or any refuse of any description whatever in or upon any street, alley,
parkway, or other public place or upon any vacant or unimproved lot or parcel
of land in the village.
   (B)   No persons other than village employees using village equipment may
throw, place, leave, or suffer to be thrown, placed, or left any waste, refuse,
garbage, ashes, household rubbish, miscellaneous rubbish, manure, vegetation,
or any refuse of any description or kind within the boundaries of the village
park.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, generally, see
Chapter 52
§ 91.42 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   If any garbage is not placed in the receptacle for garbage as stated in §
52.03, or is not disposed of immediately, it is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7) (Ord. passed 7-9-1962)
§ 91.43 PROHIBITION OF EXCESSIVE GRASS AND WEED GROWTH.
   The village hereby prohibits all record fee title owners, beneficiaries of
any trust holding title to any real estate, individual(s), partnership(s), firm
(s), or corporation(s) owning, leasing, occupying, controlling, or possessing
in any manner any real property or who is otherwise responsible for the
maintenance of any real property within the village from allowing or
permitting:
   (A)   The growth to a height in excess of six inches of any weeds, grass,
plants, or other vegetation on any real property; or
   (B)   The growth of any plant species regarded or capable of classification
under the laws of the state as a nuisance species.
   (C)   If the village has to cut property’s grass, homeowners will reimburse
the village at the current rate for mowing properties.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 EXCEPTIONS.
   The prohibitions set forth in §
91.43 shall not apply to:
   (A)   Trees, bushes, shrubs, flowers;
   (B)   Any intentionally cultivated agricultural vegetation;
   (C)   Any vegetation cultivated or maintained in an effort to preserve,
promote, and protect plant species native to the state;
   (D)   Any vegetation intentionally cultivated or maintained in an effort to
reproduce ecosystems or environmental conditions naturally existing in the
state;
   (E)   Any vegetation intentionally cultivated or maintained in a clearly
defined and physically discrete area for landscaping, ornamental, or other
aesthetic purposes;
   (F)   Any residentially zoned property one acre or greater in size except
that any portion on such property cultivated with turfgrass shall comply with
the provisions of this subchapter. For purposes of this subchapter, TURFGRASS
is defined as grasses that are spreading or stoloniferous in nature as opposed
to a tufted ornamental grass, that endures regular mowing to form a dense
growth of leaf blades and root; or
   (G)   Any property used for planting pursuant to a permissible agricultural
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011)
§ 91.45 PROHIBITION OF DUMPING OR CAUSING GRASS OR WEED CLIPPING UPON PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   The village hereby prohibits all record fee title owners, beneficiaries of
any trust holding title to any real estate, individual(s), partnership(s), firm
(s), or corporation(s) owning, leasing, occupying, controlling, or possessing
in any manner any real property or who is otherwise responsible for the
maintenance of any real property within the village from allowing or permitting
any person from placing grass or weed clippings on any public roadway or other
public property without express consent of the village as contained within this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES FOR EXCESSIVE GRASS AND WEED GROWTH.
   (A)   In addition to the penalty provision provided in §
91.99, in the event of the refusal or neglect by the owner or owners and/or
occupiers of the property to cut, destroy, and/or remove weeds, grass, or
otherwise comply with the terms of this subchapter, the village at its sole
option and election, may enter upon said premises and correct the violations of
this subchapter at the expense of the owner or owners of the premises. All
costs, charges, and expenses incurred or imposed by the village as a result of
correcting the violations of this subchapter in the removal or cutting down of
such weeds or grasses on such real property including reasonable attorney fees,
shall constitute a lien upon the real estate affected, and a lien shall be
enforced as provided by statute.
   (B)   Any lien permitted by this subchapter may be enforced by obtaining a
judgment against the owner or owners of said property for such charges and
costs of suit, or by filing a claim for lien therefor in the Recorder’s office
of the county, giving the description of the property, itemizing the charges,
and giving the date thereof, said claim for lien to be supported by affidavit,
and which said claim for lien may be foreclosed in the manner provided by law
for foreclosure of other statutory liens.
   (C)   All remedies provided herein are deemed cumulative so that the use or
implementation of one remedy does not bar or preclude the use of any other
available remedy for such violators.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any authorized village official or representative, thereof, shall
serve or cause to be served notice in the event of violation of this subchapter
to remedy the condition according to the terms of this chapter upon any person
owning, leasing, occupying, or controlling any real estate in the village.
   (B)   Said notice shall contain language requiring such person to remove or
cut down excessive weed or grass growth within seven days from the date of the
notice, or remove or clean up any grass or weed clipping placed on public
property within one day of the date of notice, said notice may be given by any
one of the following described methods:
      (1)   By a written notice sent by United States certified mail, postage
prepaid, to the last known person owning, leasing, occupying, or controlling
the real estate, and as to the owner, the notice may be addressed to the
address shown on the most recent tax bill for the real estate;
      (2)   By a written notice personally delivered by the code officer or
such other authorized village representative to the person owning, leasing,
occupying, or controlling the real estate, this being the required notice for
removal or clean up of any grass or weed clippings placed on public property;
      (3)   By posting or tagging a written notice on the property of the
person owning, leasing, occupying, or controlling the real estate upon which
the violation exists. Said notice shall state the date of the posting or
tagging and shall require the removal or cutting down of grass or weeds
constituting such nuisance to be completed not later than seven days after the
notice has been posted or tagged on said property; or
      (4)   At the election of the village the person owning, leasing,
occupying, or controlling any real estate in the village may be notified by the
village by regular or certified mail of the village’s intent to serve an annual
notice. This notice shall contain the necessary language notifying the owner,
lessee, tenant, occupant, or person in control of real estate in the village
that this will be the only correspondence from the village regarding this
subchapter and in the event of violation, the village will remedy the condition
according to the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011)
§ 91.48 ENFORCEMENT.
   Proceedings to enforce violations of this subchapter may be initialed and
conducted in accordance with and pursuant to the provisions of the village
ordinances or by any other means provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-14) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §
91.40 shall be subject to its remedies as set forth in this chapter. (Prior
Code, § 7-3-5)
   (C)   Any person who is found guilty of violating §
91.41(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in an amount as
set forth in §
35.01.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)
   (D)   (1)   In addition to all other remedies to the village at law or
equity, any person or entity who violates or fails to comply with §§
91.40 through
91.48 shall be fined in an amount as set forth in §
35.01 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (D)(1) above, if
any person notified fails or refuses to comply with the notice, the village may
cause weeds or grass to be removed or cut down in any manner it designates and
shall charge the costs of such removal to the person owning, leasing,
occupying, or controlling the real estate. The cost for such cutting or removal
shall be calculated on the basis of an amount as set forth in §
35.01 per 1,000 square feet of real estate or fraction thereof or actual costs
of services, whichever is greater, for the first offense, and in an amount as
set forth in §
35.01 per 1,000 square feet of real estate or actual costs of services
whichever is greater, for all subsequent offenses. Square footage of the
property shall be calculated based on total square footage of the lot based on
dimensions as contained in property assessment or as measured and documented by
the village. The cost, charges, and expenses incurred or imposed by the
village, in the removal or cutting following the refusal or failure of the
responsible party to remove or cut down such grass or weeds and including
reasonable attorney fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real estate
affected, and a lien shall be enforced as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the public nuisances for which there is
not another penalty contained within §§
91.40 through
91.48 shall be fined for each offense, and every day upon which such offense
occurs or upon which such offense continues shall be deemed a separate offense
a fine in an amount as set forth in §
35.01 per day. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter which
deems such violation to be a public nuisance, shall also be subject to the
village abating said nuisance by either providing the proper receptacles or
otherwise taking action for reasonable abatement of said nuisance and charging
said property owner, occupant, or lessee of said premises for the cost of said
abatement in addition to the aforesaid fine.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-15)
(Ord. passed 9-12-1994; Ord. passed 10-13-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 92: VILLAGE PARKS AND PROPERTY
Section
General Regulations
   
92.01   Animals
   
92.02   Balloons, aeroplanes, hydroplanes, and parachutes
   
92.03   Games and sports
   
92.04   Meetings and public programs
   
92.05   Sales and concessions; permit required
   
92.06   Closing of parks
   
92.07   Camping
   
92.08   Ordinances of village applicable to parks
   
92.09   Picnics
Protection of Parks and Property
   
92.20   Fireworks
   
92.21   Bill posting
   
92.22   Littering
   
92.23   Building fires
   
92.24   Damage to park property
   
92.25   Protection of birds and animals
   
92.26   Pulling plantings; removal or injuring of trees
   
92.27   Lakes and ponds
   
92.28   Entering area set aside for amusements, programs
Conduct in Parks
   
92.40   Hindering or soliciting employees
   
92.41   Disorderly conduct
   
92.42   Drunkenness; intoxicating liquors
   
92.43   Gambling
   
92.44   Obscene or indecent books or pamphlets
   
92.45   Lewd acts in public; obscene gestures
   
92.46   Skating in reckless manner
   
92.47   Resisting or interfering with police
   
92.48   Racing
Vehicles in Parks
   
92.60   Operation of vehicle
   
92.61   Parking regulations
   
92.62   Prohibited stopping places
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
       (1)   Cause or permit any animal or fowl to run at large;
      (2)   No person having the right and ability to prevent shall, knowingly
or carelessly or negligently, permit any dog or other animal to commit any
nuisance upon any sidewalk or parkway of any public way, or upon any public
parks, public grounds, and the buildings thereon; nor shall any such person
omit to do any reasonable and proper act, or take any reasonable and proper
precaution, to prevent any such dog or other animal from committing such a
nuisance in, or upon any of such places or premises herein specified; or
      (3)   Torture, treat cruelly, or neglect any animal.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to relate to
dogs or other animals in the village while in the custody of a police officer
and being used for police purposes.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 BALLOONS, AEROPLANES, HYDROPLANES, AND PARACHUTES.
   No person shall make any ascent or descent from a balloon, parachute, or
other aircraft for exhibition or commercial purposes without obtaining a permit
to do so from the Board of Trustees; any ascent from, descent upon, or flight
over the lands of the village shall be subject to the rules and regulations of
federal, state, or local agencies having jurisdiction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 GAMES AND SPORTS.
   No person shall engage in any athletic game or sport, except such portions
thereof as may be designated for that purpose by the Board of Trustees, and
then only under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by them.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 MEETINGS AND PUBLIC PROGRAMS.
   No person or persons shall render any musical, vocal or instrumental, or
deliver an oration, address, speech, sermon, or lecture in any park without
first obtaining a permit from the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5)
§ 92.05 SALES AND CONCESSIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Offering articles for sale. No person shall offer or expose for sale
any article or thing, or do any hawking, peddling, or soliciting, or buy or
offer to buy an article or thing, or take up any collection or solicit or
receive contributions of money or any thing of value, except when authorized to
do so by permit from or contract with the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-9)
   (B)   Concession and sale; permit required. No person shall erect any stand,
or place any stand, wagon, cart, vehicle, trailer, or any public thing to use
as a concession for the purpose of selling from, in any park without first
obtaining a permit from the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-28)
(Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 CLOSING OF PARKS.
   No person shall be permitted to remain in the public park of the village
from dusk until daylight.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-18) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 CAMPING.
   No person shall camp or erect any tent or park any trailer without a permit
issued by the Board of Trustees or except in any area specifically designated
for camping and posted with appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-21) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 ORDINANCES OF VILLAGE APPLICABLE TO PARKS.
   All ordinances of the village shall extend to all land set aside for parks
unless otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-25) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981)
§ 92.09 PICNICS.
   (A)   Picnics may be held only in such parks or portions thereof as are
designated for that purpose by the Village Manager.
   (B)   All areas or portions of parks used by picnickers shall be left in a
neat, clean condition by them.
   (C)   All bags, cans, cartons, melon rinds, and all leftovers must be taken
away or placed in the garbage barrels.
   (D)   Salt water from ice cream containers shall not be poured on the grass
in any park.
   (E)   No person shall disturb any picnic or intrude himself or herself upon
it without the consent of those composing it.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-30) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
PROTECTION OF PARKS AND PROPERTY
§ 92.20 FIREWORKS.
   No person shall fire, discharge, or set off any rocket, cracker, torpedo,
squib, or other fireworks, or any substance of any explosive nature, unless the
Board of Trustees, by order, authorizes the issuance of a permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 BILL POSTING.
   No person shall post, affix, place, or inscribe, any handbill, postercard,
sign, device, or inscription to, upon or against any fence, structure, tree, or
property of or on any parks or streets, avenues, or highways around the parks;
provided, that this does not apply to signs placed by village employees or
other persons authorized to do so by the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 LITTERING.
   No person shall throw, cast, deposit, damage, lay, place, or scatter any
placard, handbill, pamphlet, circular, book, notice, paper of any kind, coal,
ashes, dust, manure, rubbish, garbage, refuse matter or article, or thing of
any kind.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-7) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 BUILDING FIRES.
   No person shall make a fire for any purpose on the grounds of any parks,
except park employees when so directed by the village, except in fire places
constructed specifically for that purpose on the park property.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-15) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 DAMAGE TO PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall cut, break, climb on, mark upon, or in any way injure or
deface any appurtenance or any other property; nor shall any person operate or
drive any motor car, automobile, or vehicle of any kind in such a manner as to
cause the same to collide with, run against, strike or cause to strike, injure,
deface, or damage any property or appurtenance of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-16) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 PROTECTION OF BIRDS AND ANIMALS.
   No person shall trap, catch, wound, or kill, or treat cruelly, or attempt to
trap, catch, wound, or kill any bird or animal, or molest or rob any nest of
any bird, or feed, interfere with, molest, or disturb any fish, waterfowl,
bird, or animal.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-17) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 PULLING PLANTINGS; REMOVAL OR INJURING OF TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, pull, tear up, or sever any
flower or flowers, shrubs, plants, or trees growing in said parks. And it shall
be unlawful for any person or persons to tramp down, or in any way or manner
injure, or destroy any flowers, shrubs, plants, trees, or any property
whatsoever in, on, or about said parks. No person shall break, cut, mutilate or
injure, remove, or carry away, any tree, shrub, plant, flower, stone or stone
work, bench, chair, seat, bower, stand, structure, signs, fence, or property,
or anything whatsoever, in, upon, or near any park in this village or any
street, avenue, or anything whatsoever in, upon, or near any park in this
village or any street, avenue, or highway around the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-26) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 LAKES AND PONDS.
   (A)   No person shall throw stones, sticks, rubbish, garbage, or any other
thing into any lake, pond, pool, or stream in the parks, or foul in any manner
any drinking fountain. No person shall swim or place any watercraft in or upon
any of the lakes or ponds within the park property.
   (B)   Any person fishing in and around any lakes or ponds within the village
limits must first obtain a permit from the village. The permit will allow the
permit holder to fish from designated fishing areas. Fishing is limited to the
use of hook and line, while fishing with spears, bow and arrow, or nets is
prohibited.
      (1)   Any person fishing in the lakes or ponds must comply with the
village fishing regulations, which will be published on an annual basis, and
all state fishing regulations.
      (2)   The permits are for fishing only and shall not be construed to
authorize the use of outboard or inboard motors on personal watercraft on
waters which are situated in the village. The use of outboard and inboard
motors on personal watercraft thereon is expressly prohibited.
      (3)   The use of alcohol and/or firearms is strictly prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-27) (Ord. 15-11, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 ENTERING AREA SET ASIDE FOR AMUSEMENTS, PROGRAMS.
   No person shall enter into or upon any ball park, swimming pool, race track,
or any area or portion of any park set aside for amusement, concession, or
program where the same is enclosed by a fence, rope, or signs, without first
obtaining a permit from the authorized person in charge, or when an admittance
fee is charged, first paying the admission fee.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-29) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981)
CONDUCT IN PARKS
§ 92.40 HINDERING OR SOLICITING EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No person shall interfere with, or in any manner hinder any employee
of the village while engaged in constructing, repairing, or caring for any park
property; nor shall any person solicit any employee of the village while such
employee is on duty.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the village shall supply, to any person,
lists of the names and addresses of employees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-8) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the purpose of
causing public danger, alarm, disorder, nuisance, or if his or her conduct is
likely to cause public danger, alarm, disorder, or nuisance, he or she commits
any of the following acts in a public place:
   (A)   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another whereby that other
is placed in danger of his or her life or health;
   (B)   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another whereby the property
of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
   (C)   Causes, provokes, or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous act so as
to endanger the life, health, or property of another;
   (D)   Interferes with another’s pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of
violence;
   (E)   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when
ordered to do so by the Police Department or other lawful authority;
   (F)   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by the Police
Department or any other authorized village official;
   (G)   Incites, attempts to incite, or is involved in attempting to incite
imminent lawless action including rioting, fighting, and other unlawful
disturbances;
   (H)   Use of abusive language or threats to any member of the Police
Department, any other authorized village official who is engaged in the lawful
performance of his or her duties, or any other person when such words have a
direct tendency to cause acts of violence. Words merely causing displeasure,
annoyance, or resentment are not prohibited;
   (I)   Damages, befouls, or disturbs public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically offensive
condition;
   (J)   Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous, and unreasonable
noise or disturbance to the annoyance of any other persons nearby, or near to
any public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square, or common, whereby
the public peace is broken or disturbed, or the traveling public annoyed;
   (K)   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer where one
or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate
vicinity, and the public health and safety is threatened;
   (L)   Uses abusive or obscene language or makes an obscene gesture in public
likely to incite immediate physical retaliation by the hearer;
   (M)   Assembles with one or more persons for the purpose of using force or
violence to disturb the peace;
   (N)   Appears in any public place and is manifestly under the influence of
alcohol, narcotics, or other drug, not therapeutically administered, to the
degree that he or she may endanger himself or herself or other persons or
property, or alarm or disturb other persons in his or her vicinity;
   (O)   Transmits in any manner to any police officer, public officer, or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed; or
   (P)   Uses paint or other medium in any way to deface, damage, or destroy
property.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-10) (Ord. passed 12-13-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.42 DRUNKENNESS; INTOXICATING LIQUORS.
   (A)   No intoxicated person shall enter, be, or remain in the parks,
pathways, parkways, boulevards, buildings, and improvements thereof, or such
other lands as now or may hereafter be under the control of the village.
   (B)   No alcoholic liquors shall be sold, brought within, given away, or
consumed in any park, playground, athletic field, or other outdoor facility,
without a special permit for a confined area as issued upon request from the
village.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-11) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.43 GAMBLING.
   See state statutes for current law.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-12) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.44 OBSCENE OR INDECENT BOOKS OR PAMPHLETS.
   No person shall exhibit, sell or offer to sell, give away or offer to give
away, or have in his or her possession any obscene or indecent book, pamphlet,
paper, drawing, lithographs, engraving, picture, daguerreotype, photograph,
stereoscopic picture, model, cast, instrument, or any article for indecent or
immoral use.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-13) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.45 LEWD ACTS IN PUBLIC; OBSCENE GESTURES.
   No person shall commit any indecent, lewd, or filthy act, or utter any
indecent, lewd, or filthy words, or use any threatening or obscene language, or
make any threatening suggestion or obscene gesture or movement.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-14) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.46 SKATING IN RECKLESS MANNER.
   No person shall skate in a reckless manner, or at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper, having regard to the number of people and the use
thereof, or so as to endanger life or limb, or damage the property of any
person; no person or group of persons shall engage in the sport of ice hockey
except in such areas and during such hours as the Board of Trustees shall
designate for such activity; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall be construed to prohibit any exhibition of, or contest in, fast or fancy
skating on such portions of any ice pond as may be set aside for that purpose
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-19) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH POLICE.
   No person shall resist any police officer in the discharge of his or her
duty or fail or refuse to obey any lawful command of any such officer or in any
way interfere with or hinder or prevent any officer from discharging his or her
duty, or in any manner assist or give aid to any person in the custody of a
police officer in attempting to escape from such custody, or rescue or attempt
to rescue any person when in such custody.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-20) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981)
§ 92.48 RACING.
   Racing of horses, vehicles, boats, model vehicles, model boats, midget
vehicles, and the flying of model planes is prohibited in any park; provided,
that the Village Manager may set aside certain portions or areas for such
contests, exhibits, or entertainments.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-31) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
VEHICLES IN PARKS
§ 92.60 OPERATION OF VEHICLE.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or vehicle of any kind except on
designated roadways and boulevards.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-22) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.61 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle in any area designated as a “no
parking” area by the Board of Trustees, and said area is posted with an
appropriate sign. No person shall park upon any grass covered area unless said
area is designated as a parking area and posted with appropriate signs by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-23) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.62 PROHIBITED STOPPING PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand, or
park such vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device:
      (1)   In any intersection;
      (2)   In a crosswalk;
      (3)   At any place where the standing of any vehicle will block the use
of any roadway;
      (4)   On any sidewalk or parkway;
      (5)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a boulevard; or
      (6)   At any place where traffic-control devices have been erected
prohibiting stopping, standing, and parking.
   (B)   The speed limit for all vehicles in the park or on Second Avenue from
Grant Street North shall be ten mph and from Second Avenue to Chicago Avenue on
Grand Street said speed limit shall be 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-24) (Ord. passed 4-13-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   This division (B) will apply to any violations of §
92.27. Such violations may include a penalty as set forth in §
35.01. Violations will be issued by the village under a village ordinance
ticket.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-27) (Ord. 15-11, passed 12-14-2015)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Conduct on Streets and Sidewalks
   
93.01   Goods, merchandise for sale
   
93.02   Yard and garage sales
   
93.03   Playing games on public ways
   
93.04   Washing pavement; windows
   
93.05   Skateboards and scooters
   
93.06   Parades
Obstructions
   
93.20   Erecting obstructions
   
93.21   Authority to remove obstructions
   
93.22   Gates opening onto walks
   
93.23   Moving buildings; street obstruction
   
93.24   Obstructing intersections
   
93.25   Removal/topping of trees
Development and Excavations
   
93.40   Openings covered
   
93.41   Barbed wire fences
   
93.42   Drainpipes on buildings
   
93.43   Excavation, permit, and application requests
   
93.44   Issuance of permits
   
93.45   Insurance and deposit requirements
   
93.46   Barricades and lights
   
93.47   Routing of traffic
   
93.48   Manner of excavation
   
93.49   Excavation restoration
   
93.50   Supervision and inspection
   
93.51   Exemptions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
CONDUCT ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 93.01 GOODS, MERCHANDISE FOR SALE.
   (A)   No person shall place any goods or merchandise for sale or exhibition
upon any sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) below; or place or
deposit thereon, or cause or suffer the same to be done, any cask, barrel,
wood, stove, plank, board, salt, or any other article or thing whatsoever.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for any person to place, hang, or set out for safe
or show any goods, wares, or merchandise on or over the sidewalk in front of
and within three feet of his or her building or store. It shall also be lawful
for any person to place and leave for a period of not exceeding 12 hours, on
five feet of the outer edge of the sidewalk in front of his or her store or
building, any goods, wares, and merchandise which he or she shall be in the act
of receiving or delivering.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 YARD AND GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village limits to
conduct a sale upon land of any residence commonly referred to as a yard sale
or garage sale when the same is not in accordance with the zoning regulations
of this village and not located in a commercial zone without first obtaining
from the Chief of Police a permit for conducting such a sale.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to issue one permit per year
for each household in such residential districts for a period of time not to
exceed three days. There shall be no charge for the issuance of such permit,
but a record shall be maintained as to the date and name of such application in
order to assure compliance with the restriction of only one sale per year.
   (C)   No sign shall be erected by any person advertising or directing the
attention to such sales except on the property where such sale is being
conducted. Any person erecting such sign or notice on public or private
property off the premises in question shall be subject to a fine of an amount
as set forth in §
35.01 per sign improperly posted. No signs shall remain at any location more
than 24 hours after the expiration of the issued permit.
   (D)   This section shall become effective November 1, 1983 and no previous
sales on any premises shall be considered as prohibiting the issuance of a
permit after that date.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12) (Ord. 4-84, passed 10-10-1983) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PLAYING GAMES ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   All persons are hereby prohibited from playing any games, throwing any ball,
skating, or sliding, or playing with hand sleds upon the streets, avenues,
sidewalks, or crosswalks of the village, or obstructing the free passage upon
the same by collecting in crowds thereon, or in any other manner whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 WASHING PAVEMENT; WINDOWS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wash or cause to be washed any
pavement, sidewalk, or windows along the line of any sidewalk, with a hose or
street washer, or by throwing or dashing water against or upon the same,
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. All dirt, dust, and rubbish must
be swept off all sidewalks by 10:00 a.m. of each and every business day.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 SKATEBOARDS AND SCOOTERS.
   (A)   Prohibited use. It shall be unlawful for any person to use a
skateboard or scooter. This shall include motorized scooters which are not
licensed by the state under the State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et
seq. on any public street or public sidewalk in the village, unless expressly
authorized by the ordinances of this village, or by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to those areas in public
parks designated for use by skateboarders, or in-line skaters; however, this
exception shall not apply to those areas of public parks which are designated
as benches or railings, or curbing.
   (C)   Forfeiture. Upon receipt of a notice of violation, and forfeiture of
the skateboard or scooter, the violator shall have ten days to appeal to the
village for a hearing, and full review of the forfeiture. Upon the filing of a
notice, the violator must file a deposit in an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for the return of the skateboard or scooter pending hearing.
   (D)   Remedies not exclusive. Nothing herein shall be deemed to be the
exclusive remedy in the village, and all such other penalties as are allowed
under this code, and the statutes of the state shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-23) (Ord. passed 2-14-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 PARADES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall conduct a parade or march in, upon,
or along the streets or sidewalks of the village at any time of the day or
night without first obtaining from the Board of Trustees a permit in writing
for the same, which permit shall designate upon what streets the parade may
pass, and the nature and character of the procession. The official to whom
application is made, shall be the Chief of Police, and he or she shall have the
power to issue or refuse to issue such permits as he or she may deem to be in
the best interest of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
   (B)   Exemptions. This section shall not be construed to require any type of
permit for funeral processions in the village or to apply to any of the
military forces of the United States of America, or of this state, or to the
forces of Police Department of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-2)
(Ord. passed 12-8-1975) Penalty, see §
93.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 ERECTING OBSTRUCTIONS.
   All persons are hereby prohibited from erecting and maintaining any stand,
stall, or other obstruction on any sidewalk or street of the village at a
greater height than three foot above the surface of the sidewalk and extending
over four feet from the front line of the lot; provided, however, that canvas
awnings may be constructed at a height of not less than six and one-half feet
from the surface of the walk.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The President, Director of Public Works, or any member of the Village Board
is hereby authorized to cause any obstruction erected, placed, or continued on
any sidewalks contrary to the provisions hereof to be removed after due notice
has been given to remove the same, and a neglect to comply with said notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899)
§ 93.22 GATES OPENING ONTO WALKS.
   All gates opening upon any public place or street shall be constructed so
that no part of such gate shall swing over, upon, or above any part of the
sidewalk or street adjacent thereto unless such gate is so constructed as to be
self-shutting. No person shall permit or allow any gate under his or her
control to project into any such public place.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 MOVING BUILDINGS; STREET OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall suffer any building to remain in any of the public ways of
the village during the moving thereof longer than five days. Any building so
left in violation of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   At all intersections within the village, no obstacle of any type
whatsoever, including mailboxes, signs, billboards, advertising matter, and the
like, shall be erected or placed so that there is not a clear view at said
intersection of at least 1,000 feet in all directions when a motorist is at the
crosswalk as he or she is approaching said intersection.
   (B)   The police officers of the village shall have the right to give
written notice to remove any obstruction falling within the purview of this
section and unless such obstruction is removed within ten days of receipt of
said notice, said parties shall be deemed guilty of the violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11) (Ord. passed 3-4-1957) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 REMOVAL/TOPPING OF TREES.
   Upon receiving a recommendation from the Street and Alley Committee, the
village shall underwrite one-half of the cost involved in the removal or
topping of terrace trees located within the village limits with the remainder
of the cost to be paid by the owner of record of the property upon which such
tree is located. Said recommendation shall result from the consideration by the
Committee of the following factors: the safety of the community, the ability to
save the trees, and the beautification of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13) (Ord. passed 11-10-1986)
DEVELOPMENT AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.40 OPENINGS COVERED.
   Every aperture or opening in any sidewalk over any vault or coal hole shall
be covered with a substantial iron grate or plate with rough surface to prevent
accidents, and the construction of all vaults and coal holes aforesaid shall be
subject to the supervision of the Director of Public Works of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899)
§ 93.41 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   No fence or barrier consisting of barbed wire, or of which barbed wire forms
a part, shall be built, constructed, or used within the village along the line
of or in, upon, or along any street or public place. No merchant or other
person shall place or, having control thereof, shall suffer or permit to be
placed for a longer period than two hours upon or near any sidewalk in the
village any barbed wire, unless the barbed wire is so covered as to in no way
be liable to injure the person or clothing of passengers upon such walk.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6) (Ord 11, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.42 DRAINPIPES ON BUILDINGS.
   All buildings hereafter erected shall be provided with proper metallic
leaders for conducting the water from the roof to the storm sewer or gutter, in
such manner as shall protect the walls and foundations from damage; and in no
case shall the water from such leaders or otherwise be allowed to flow upon the
sidewalks, but shall be conducted by the drain pipe to the street gutter or
other proper place.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 11, passed 4-10-1899)
§ 93.43 EXCAVATION, PERMIT, AND APPLICATION REQUESTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation in any
street, alley, parkway, or other public place in the village without having
first obtained a permit as herein required, and without complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Building Inspector,
and shall describe the location of the intended excavation, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor, the person doing the actual excavating work and the name
of the person for whom the work is being done. The application shall also
contain an agreement that the application will comply with all ordinances
relating to the work.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-14) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.44 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Permits complying with this chapter shall be issued by the Building
Inspector or his or her duly authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-15) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 93.45 INSURANCE AND DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Insurance. No such permit shall be issued unless the applicant has
filed with the Building Inspector an insurance certificate which holds the
village harmless from any loss, liability, or damage claims that may result or
accrue from or become of the making, existence, or manner of such excavation.
Its certificate shall show the village as party to the insured in amounts not
less than $300,000 for all damages arising out of bodily injuries to or death
of one person and subject to that limit for each person, a total amount of
$500,000 for all damages arising out of bodily injuries to or death of two or
more persons in any one accident, and regular contractors’ property damage
liability insurance, including automobile coverage, in limits of not less than
$300,000 for all damages arising out of injury to or destruction of property in
any one accident and, subject to that limit per accident, a total (or
aggregate) limit of $500,000 for all damages arising out of injury to or
destruction of property during the policy period.
   (B)   Deposits.
      (1)   No such permit shall be issued until the applicant therefor has
deposited with the Village Clerk a cash deposit in an amount as set forth in §
35.02. The deposit is to ensure the proper restoration of the ground and
pavement. If the applicant fails to restore the excavation site promptly, the
village shall use the deposit in an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for the restoration work. The deposit in an amount as set forth in §
35.02 shall cover all street excavations of the contractor-depositor so long as
the contractor is not in default in his or her obligation to restore. If it
becomes necessary to use all or any portion of said deposit for restoration,
then the cash deposit of said contractor shall be increased to an amount as set
forth in §
35.02 for all future excavations. If thereafter the said contractor is not in
default of a three-year period, the deposit will be reduced to an amount as set
forth in §
35.02.
      (2)   The cash bond shall remain on deposit until the completion of any
restoration work involving a street excavation. If the restoration, at that
time, is satisfactory, the cash bond shall be returned to the contractor;
provided, said bond is not required as security for other pending work of said
contractor.
      (3)   In the event the cash bond is not adequate to complete the
restoration work, the contractor shall be responsible for the deficiency.
      (4)   In addition to the cash bond, the contractor doing the excavation
work shall, by written agreement, guarantee the sufficiency of his or her
restoration work for a period of one year from the date of the completion of
the restoration.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-16) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 93.46 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any person making or maintaining any excavation in any public area shall
keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights to protect persons
and property from injury. The placement and maintenance of barricades shall
conform to the State Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-17) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 93.47 ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   Traffic access on the public streets shall be maintained at all times by the
contractor performing the excavation, unless the Building Inspector authorizes
the closing of a street. If, for good and sufficient reasons, the street must
be closed to traffic, the contractor may request in writing to the Building
Inspector a permit for the street closing. If the Building Inspector determines
such closing is warranted, a permit will be issued for street closing, for a
period not to exceed 72 hours. The contractor shall apply for an extension of
the permit for 72 additional hours. The contractor shall provide all signs and
barricades necessary to re-route traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-18) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 93.48 MANNER OF EXCAVATION.
   (A)   Generally. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any way contrary to
or in violation of the terms of the permit. Proper bracing shall be maintained
to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground and the excavation shall not have
anywhere below the surface any portion which extends beyond the opening at the
surface. Bricks which form the surface of the street will be lifted in such a
way as not to be broken and stored in a locked or guarded place, in such a way
as to be available for use in replacing the surface.
      (2)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits which in
any way may be endangered or affected by the making of such excavation. The
contractor shall be responsible for notifying all public utilities of its
intent to excavate.
      (3)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any trees, shrubs,
or the roots thereof. Tunneling is prohibited.
   (B)   Sidewalks. If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary
sidewalk shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and
convenient for users.
   (C)   Time limit. Each permit for excavation shall be for a period not to
exceed 30 days after the commencement of work. If at the time of the
application it is known that the restoration and excavation will exceed this
period, then it must be so stated on the permit and approved by the Building
Inspector.
   (D)   Restoring surface. Any person making an excavation in any public
street, alley, parkway, or public place shall restore the surface. For
parkways, black dirt and seed will be the standard. Brick surfaces will be
replaced with brick of the type and color approved by the Building Inspector.
In all other respects, the surface shall be restored to its original condition.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-19) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.49 EXCAVATION RESTORATION.
   (A)   All holes or trenches in the street are to be saw cut and the width of
the cut in the pavement must exceed the width of the excavation by at least one
foot, which shall be tamped and compacted before proceeding with the next
layer.
   (B)   When the pavement is replaced the patch must bear on undisturbed
earth, a minimum of one foot on all sides. If the existing pavement is
concrete, the patch shall be concrete the same thickness as the original,
reinforced with “6 x 6 No. 10 x No. 10” welded wire fabric. If the existing
pavement is bituminous asphalt, the patch shall be composed of eight inches of
concrete reinforced with “6 x 6 No. 10 x No. 10” wire fabric. The top of the
concrete surface shall be depressed two inches to allow for a bituminous
concrete surface course which shall be placed and compacted level with the
existing pavement surface. If the base construction is bituminous concrete,
then the full depth of the patch must be replaced with bituminous concrete in
compacted layers.
   (C)   Any openings in a paved area of a street shall be repaired and the
surface relaid by the permittee in compliance with this chapter and subject to
the supervision of the Building Inspector. If such work is not done within 30
days after restoration is possible, the village shall restore the surface and
charge the cost thereof to the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-20) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 93.50 SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, or his or her agent, shall inspect all excavations
in the village. The contractor shall notify the Building Inspector at least 24
hours before the commencement of any excavation and shall call the Building
Inspector for inspection of the backfilling operation as it progresses and
inspection of the T patch before it is poured or placed.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-21) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 93.51 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter relative to securing permits shall not apply
to officers, contractors, or employees of the village engaged in doing work for
the village, nor to persons or corporations which are operating under a
franchise or grant from the village if such franchise provides for the making
of excavations without securing a permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-22) (Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone found to be in violation of §
93.05 shall be subject to the maximum fine as set forth in this code, and
further shall have their skateboard or scooter seized, and subject to
forfeiture upon violation, or notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-23) (Ord. passed 2-14-2005)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Declaration of policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace, and health
of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless
of race, color, religion, national origin, or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation having the
right to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise control any housing accommodation and/
or real property within the village, or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin, or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of
such person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin, or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental, or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities
and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-1) (Ord. passed 12-11-2006)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental, or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease, or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution, or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence, or sleeping place of one or more human beings,
or any real estate so used, designed, or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, and/
or agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges, or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange,
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rent for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure, or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-2) (Ord. passed 12-11-2006)
§ 94.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker, or salesperson, financial institution, or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin, or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard
to the sale, exchange, or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) above, it shall also be
unlawful for any real estate broker or employee thereof, owner, or other
person, or financial institution dealing with housing or real property in the
village:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental, or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental, or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise obtaining or making available funds
for the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability; and/or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-3) (Ord. passed 12-11-2006) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine in an amount as set forth in §
35.01. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
This section shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the village to
specifically enforce by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-4) (Ord. passed 12-11-2006)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
111.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
115.   SPECIALIZED SALES AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
110.01   Retailer’s occupation tax
   
110.02   Service occupation tax
   
110.03   Use tax
   
110.04   Exclusions
§ 110.01 RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in the village at the rate of 1%
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-
1.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by § 3 of “An Act in Relation to a Tax Upon
Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption,” approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1) (Ord. passed 8-11-1969)
§ 110.02 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the village in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all
tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
   (B)   Every supplier or serviceman required to account for village service
occupation tax for the benefit of this village shall file, on or before the
last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of Revenue
required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 115/9,
approved July 10, 1961, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2) (Ord. passed 8-11-1969)
§ 110.03 USE TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions of S.H.A. 65
ILCS 5/8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the village any item of tangible
personal property which is purchased outside the state at retail from a
retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of the state
government. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such
tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the Use
Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq., approved July 14, 1955.
   (B)   Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3) (Ord. passed 11-18-1974)
§ 110.04 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Exclusion a-1 contained in § 2 of the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act,
being 35 ILCS 120/2, approved June 28, 1933, as amended, shall not apply to
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail
within the village.
   (B)   The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in § 3 of the
Service Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 115/3, approved July 10, 1961, as
amended, shall not apply to all persons engaged in the business of making sale
of service within the village.
   (C)   The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in § 3 of the Use
Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 105/3, approved July 14, 1955, as amended, shall not
apply to the privilege of using in such municipality any item of tangible
personal property which is purchased outside the state at retail from a
retailer and which is titled or registered with an agency of this state’s
government.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4) (Ord. 4-81, passed 10-13-1980)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Peddling
   
111.03   Sale of liquor to minors
   
111.04   Off-premises consumption
   
111.05   Public drunkenness
License Provisions
   
111.20   License required
   
111.21   Application
   
111.22   Restriction on licenses
   
111.23   Term, fees
   
111.24   Temporary permit; club license
   
111.25   Disposition of fees
   
111.26   Number of licenses
   
111.27   Transfer of license
   
111.28   Change of location
   
111.29   Revocation
Retail Establishments
   
111.40   Sanitary conditions
   
111.41   Employees
   
111.42   Restricted areas
   
111.43   Local restrictions
   
111.44   Closing hours
   
111.45   View from street
   
111.46   Night light
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
definitions for words contained in this code regulating liquor shall use the
definitions found in 235 ILCS.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. The product of distillation of any fermented liquor
whether rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR includes alcohol, spirits, wine, and
beer and every liquid or solid patented or not containing alcohol, spirits,
wine, or beer, and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to alcohol used in the
manufacture of denatured alcohol, nor any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or
less of alcohol by volume.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 111.02 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 SALE OF LIQUOR TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or his or her employees to sell any
alcoholic liquor to persons under the legal age required for the purchase of
such beverages under the laws of the state. Violation of this provision shall
be, at the discretion of the President of the Board, grounds for immediate
revocation of retail liquor licenses for the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-19) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No person shall bring any alcoholic liquor into any dining room of any
hotel, restaurant, club room, or place where lunches are served, or where soft
drinks are sold, or a soda fountain is operated, or in any public place for
consumption, or for use for mixing with any alcoholic liquor or any other
beverage whatsoever.
   (B)   No owner or proprietor or agent of or employee thereof of any
restaurant, store, or other commercial establishment inviting or permitting
public patronage, shall permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor on the
premises; except those specifically licensed for consumption on the premises.
No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public property, or in any automobile, or vehicle traveling upon or
parked on any street, alley, or public property within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-21) (Ord. 3-83, passed 8-9-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   No person shall be in a state of intoxication or drunkenness on any street,
sidewalk, or other public place; or place open to public view; or in any
private house or place to the annoyance of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-22) (Ord. 3-83, passed 8-9-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSE PROVISIONS
§ 111.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of such license.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 APPLICATION.
   Applications for licenses to sell liquor at retail within the village shall
be made to the President of the village in writing, signed by the applicant,
verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and
statements:
   (A)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual, or in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant;
   (D)   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character;
   (E)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
   (F)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this state, or the provisions of this code;
   (G)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor; and
   (H)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United Slates or any provision of this code in the conduct of
his or her place of business.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 RESTRICTION ON LICENSES.
   No liquor license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (F)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (G)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for any such license upon a first
application;
   (H)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   (I)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (J)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor or
shall have forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for
any such violation;
   (K)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (L)   Any law enforcing public official, any president or member of the
Board of Trustees; and no such official shall be interested in any way, either
directly or indirectly, in the distribution of alcoholic liquor;
   (M)   Any person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer’s license;
and/or
   (N)   Each person desiring a license under this chapter should execute a
penal bond in form and with security satisfactory to the President and Board of
Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful observance of the provisions of the
laws of the state and of this chapter. Said bond shall be in the penal sum of
an amount as set forth in §
35.01 and shall, upon approval, be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 TERM, FEES.
   (A)   Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well as other
retail sales of such liquor. The annual fee for such license shall be in an
amount as set forth in §
35.02.
   (B)   Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic wine and
beer only, but not for consumption on the premises where sold. The annual fee
for such licenses shall be in an amount as set forth in §
35.02.
   (C)    Class C licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor,
but not for consumption on the premises where sold, and all spirits other than
beer or wine, must be kept in a locked case or behind a counter where they
cannot be accessed by customers without the assistance of a sales clerk. The
annual fee for such license shall be in an amount as set forth in §
35.02.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 2015-4, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 111.24 TEMPORARY PERMIT; CLUB LICENSE.
   (A)   The President of the Board and the Board of Trustees shall have the
power to issue a temporary permit for the sale of alcoholic beverages to be
consumed on the premises at a banquet, picnic, bazaar, fair, or similar private
or public assembly where food or drink is sold, served, or dispensed. The
temporary permit shall be issued only to a club, society, fraternity, or
benevolent organization established as a nonprofit organization and said permit
shall be for a period not to exceed three consecutive days. There shall be no
licensing fee for the issuance of this permit. If the permit is requested for
an event which is scheduled to take place in the village park, such a permit
shall not be issued unless the sale and consumption of alcohol is confined to
an enclosed area within the park. The determination of such area shall be made
upon the granting of each permit. There also may be issued up to three club
licenses for social, benevolent, or religious organizations on an annual basis
to sell alcoholic beverages for up to 12 times per year, not more than two
consecutive days at a time. The fee for a club license shall be in an amount as
set forth in §
35.02 per year. Said permit shall not in any way waive any of the requirements
for obtaining liquor licenses from the state.
   (B)   The temporary permit or club license shall not be issued and/or may be
immediately revoked upon failure of the holder to provide adequate security to
ensure sale or distribution of alcohol is limited to those of legal age.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. passed 8-11-1997)
§ 111.25 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All liquor license fees shall be paid to the President at the time
application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer. In
the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the
applicant; if the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the
General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by
the Board by proper action.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943)
§ 111.26 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall not hereafter be issued within the corporate limits of the
village more than ten Class A licenses, and seven Class B licenses, for the
sale of alcoholic liquor; provided, that all licenses in effect on April 30,
1998, may be renewed from year to year as Class A licenses if the applicants
therefor shall in all other respects be qualified under the terms of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. passed 4-13-1998; Ord. passed 10-9-2000)
§ 111.27 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed
one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable,
voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution,
but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, when such estate
consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of
alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased after the death of such decedent until the
expiration of such license, but not to exceed six months.
   (B)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided, he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and
provided further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the President from
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within this jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943)
§ 111.28 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
President. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws
of this state and the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943)
§ 111.29 REVOCATION.
   The President of the Board may revoke any retail liquor license for any
violation of any provisions of this chapter, or for any violation of any state
law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-20) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.40 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in full compliance with the
provisions of this code regulating the condition of premises used for the
storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943)
§ 111.41 EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious, infectious, or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work in or
about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation, or
distribution of such liquor.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-13) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.42 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that the following described portions of the
village are predominantly residential in character: all the village excepting
those lots or plots of around abutting on Dixie Highway between Station and
Grant Streets, Station Street between Chicago Avenue and First Avenue, and
Chicago Avenue between Grant Street and Station Street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor within such portion of the village unless the owner or owners of at
least two-thirds of the frontage feet along the street and streets adjacent to
such place of business for which a license is sought, for a distance of 200
feet in each direction from such proposed place of business, shall file with
the Liquor Commissioner, or licensing officer, his, her, or their written
consent to the use of such place for the sale of alcoholic liquors.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-14) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.43 LOCAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any church or school.
   (B)   This location restriction shall not apply to:
      (1)   Clubs, restaurants, shops, or other places where the sale of
alcoholic liquor is not the principal business carried on; or
      (2)   The renewal of a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor on
premises within 100 feet of any church where such liquor license was issued
prior to the establishment of said church at that location and which has been
continuously issued to that licensee since that time.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-15) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943; Ord. 2-74, passed 2-11-1974)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.44 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor in the village between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day
except Saturday and Sunday; and every Saturday and Sunday between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00
p.m. on Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit to the
public to any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail
holding a Class A license during the hours within which the sale of such liquor
is prohibited and no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the public
during such hours.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any business holding at Class B license, from
selling, providing, giving, charging, or otherwise transferring alcoholic
liquor during the hours within which the sale of liquor is prohibited pursuant
to this section, and no alcoholic liquor may be consumed by the public during
such hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-16) (Ord. 12-7, passed 6-11-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.45 VIEW FROM STREET.
   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the
premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article, or thing
shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises
nor inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of
such licensed premises from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times, and no
booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of such premises from the street, road, or sidewalk.
All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial white
light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him or
her wilfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-17) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943)
§ 111.46 NIGHT LIGHT.
   At all times between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day, there
shall be kept burning within the premises where the sale of alcoholic liquor is
licensed, an electric white light of not less than 25 watts, and so placed that
a clear view shall be had of the entire interior of such premises from the
street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-18) (Ord. passed 1-4-1943)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Pool halls, bowling alleys, shooting galleries
   
112.02   Pinball machines, game boards
   
112.03   Moving pictures
   
112.04   Skating rinks
Vending Machines
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   Gambling devices not permitted
   
112.17   License required
   
112.18   Application
   
112.19   Inspection
   
112.20   License fees
   
112.21   Display of license
   
112.22   Revocation of license
   
112.23   Seizure and destruction of machine or device
   
112.24   Injunctive relief
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 POOL HALLS, BOWLING ALLEYS, SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to be engaged in
or carry on the business of conducting any pool hall, bowling alley, or
shooting gallery within the limits of the village without first having obtained
a license therefor in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Bowling alleys, shooting galleries. There shall be taxed and collected
from the persons engaged in or carrying on the businesses herein mentioned
respectively, license fees for each year at the rates following.
      (1)   Pin alleys’ or bowling alleys’ keepers or proprietors shall pay a
license fee of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 per year.
      (2)   Keepers of shooting galleries or places for target shooting shall
pay an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for each gallery.
   (C)   Gaming table license. No person shall operate or maintain a billiard
or pool hall without having first obtained a gaming table license therefor as
herein provided from the village. Each such person shall apply to the village
for a gaming table license and shall state in the application therefor the
intended location of the place or business and the number of tables to be used
therein. The annual fee for any such gaming table license shall be an amount as
set forth in §
35.02 for each table upon the premises thereof.
   (D)   Hours; pool halls. No licensed owner or keeper of any pool or billiard
hall shall keep open or permit to be kept open said place of business or shall
permit persons to assemble therein for the purposes of play other than the
following:
       (1)   Monday through Thursday: 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Friday and Saturday: 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. (Saturday and Sunday);
and
      (3)   Sunday: 12:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
    (E)   Minors; pool halls. No licensed owner or keeper of any pool or
billiard hall shall permit any minor under the age of 13 years to frequent the
premises without the consent of his or her parent or guardian, said consent
limited solely to being upon the premises as part of a lawful errand at the
direction of said parent or guardian.
   (F)   Registration. Every person engaged in any business, occupation, or
pursuit required to be licensed under the provisions of this section, or the
laws of the village, shall register with the Village Clerk his or her name,
residence, occupation, or business, and the place where the latter is or is to
be carried on; and in the case of a company or firm, the names of the persons
composing the firm shall also be registered.
   (G)   Separate licenses. Any number of persons doing business in
copartnership at any one place shall be required to pay but one license fee
therefor; provided, that if more than one kind of business or pursuit
hereinafter mentioned shall be conducted or carried on by the same person or
firm at the same time, a separate license fee shall be paid for each according
to the rate prescribed.
   (H)   License term. All license fees provided for herein shall become due
and payable on May 1 of each and every year or on commencing any business or
occupation upon which said license fee is imposed by this section, and all
licenses provided for herein shall expire on April 30 of each year after which
said license is issued.
   (I)   Time of payment. All license fees provided for herein shall be paid in
cash at the time said license is applied for.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. passed 1-2-1940; Ord. 3-74, passed 2-11-1974; Ord.
passed 2-2-2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 PINBALL MACHINES, GAME BOARDS.
   (A)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GAME BOARDS.
         (a)   Any board or jar, whether it be made of wood, paper, or other
construction, whereby merchandise or any other thing of value is sold or given
away and for which a fee is charged. Shall be considered as a part of the
definition of pinball machine.
         (b)   No proprietor shall use or permit to be used or exhibit for the
giving away or selling of any merchandise or valuable thing from a GAME BOARD
without a stamp affixed thereto which has been duly cancelled by the Clerk of
the village and such stamps are obtainable of the Clerk only by a duly licensed
operator as herein defined and on payment to the Clerk of a fee as fixed by the
President and Board of Trustees.
      GAMING MACHINE. Any gaming machine.
      OPERATOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association who
distributes for the purpose of operation by another, any pinball machine as
herein defined whether such setting up for operation on the basis of a division
of the income derived from such pinball machine or otherwise.
      PINBALL MACHINES. Any pinball or pin table machine or marble machine, or
any other similar type of game or machine or table in which any ball, sphere,
missile, arm, crane appliance, rod, or plunger is struck, released, impelled,
controlled, or manipulated directly or indirectly for the purpose of amusement
or skill and in which a test of skill is involved and for the playing of which
a fee is charged. Hereafter also referred to as MACHINE.
      PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or
club who is the owner, lessee, or proprietor of any establishment in or at
which such pinball machine is placed for use or play or on exhibition for the
purpose of use or play.
   (B)   Operator’s license required. No person shall engage in the business of
an OPERATOR as hereinabove defined without first having obtained a license
therefor.
   (C)   Operator’s license fee. The license fee for the operator shall be as
fixed by the President and Board of Trustees, such fee per year payable
annually in advance. No license shall be issued for less than one year and in
no case shall any portion of said license fee be repaid to the licensee.
   (D)   Proprietor’s license fee. The license fee for each PROPRIETOR as
herein defined shall be fixed by the President and Board of Trustees, such fee
per year for each machine used or played or exhibited for use or play, payable
annually in advance. No license shall be issued for less than one year. In no
case shall any portion of said license fee be repaid to the licensee.
   (E)   Application for license; license nontransferable. 
      (1)   Application for license hereunder shall be filed in writing with
the Village Clerk and shall specify:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm,
corporation, or association, the principal officers thereof and their
addresses;
         (b)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States; and
         (c)   The place where the business of the applicant is to be carried
on.
      (2)   All license fees shall be paid over by the Village Clerk to the
Village Treasurer. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
establishment of the licensee. Such license shall be nonassignable and
nontransferable and in the case of a proprietor shall apply only to the
premises for which such license is issued. No license shall be issued to a
person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      (3)   Evidence of ownership to be filed with Clerk: any proprietor who
owns a machine or machines on the effective date hereof shall file with the
Village Clerk, within 48 hours, evidence of such ownership and no proprietor
may purchase a machine or machines after such effective date, within the
corporate limits of the village without an operator’s license.
   (F)   Age restriction. No proprietor shall permit any person under the age
of 13 years to operate, use, or play any such machines.
   (G)   Machines in plain view.
      (1)   All such machines shall at all times be kept and placed in plain
view of all persons who may be in or frequent any place of business or other
place where such machines are kept or used.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize, permit, or
license any slot machine or device of any kind or nature whatsoever which is
prohibited by the provisions of this village code or by the laws of the state.
   (H)   Revocation of license. The President of the Board of Trustees shall
have the right to revoke any license issued hereunder for the violation of any
of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. passed 4-3-1950) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 MOVING PICTURES.
   (A)   All proprietors of moving picture shows given in the village, at which
admission is charged, shall pay to the village an annual license fee of an
amount as set forth in §
35.02 in advance.
   (B)   Any person desiring to operate a picture show in the village shall
apply to the Clerk of the village for a license. The Clerk shall issue the
person such license, which shall be countersigned by the Village President.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall be sufficient cause for the
forfeiture of any license granted or issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. passed 5-20-1918) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 SKATING RINKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a skating rink in the
village without first obtaining a license therefor.
   (B)   (1)   The person desiring to operate or conduct a skating rink in the
village shall first apply to the Clerk of the village for a license and shall
pay the fee to the Clerk, who shall then issue to the applicant a license for
not less than 12 months.
      (2)   The license fee shall be in an amount as set forth in §
35.02 per annum, payable in advance.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. passed 10-7-1918) Penalty, see §
112.99
VENDING MACHINES
§ 112.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES. Any machine or device, which upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, or disc, or by the payment of any
price, may be operated by the public generally by manipulating special
equipment whereby a score is established, such amusement machine or device
being based upon a card game or similar to machines commonly referred to as
slot machines, poker machines, electronic poker machines, joker poker machines,
or cherry machines.
   PERSON, FIRM, CORPORATION, or ASSOCIATION. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, or association which owns, leases,
maintains, or displays any mechanical or electronic amusement machine or
device;
      (2)   The person, firm, corporation, or association in whose place of
business any such machine or device is placed for use by the public; and
      (3)   The person, firm, corporation, or association having control over
such machine or device; provided, however, that the payment of such fee by any
person, firm, corporation, or association enumerated herein shall be deemed in
compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-1) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
§ 112.16 GAMBLING DEVICES NOT PERMITTED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize, license,
or permit any gambling devices, or any mechanism that has been judicially
determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to law, unless said
device is licensed with the state pursuant to the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS
40/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-2) (Ord. 12-8, passed 7-16-2012) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, or association displaying for public
patronage or keeping for operation any COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE as
defined in §
112.15, shall be required to obtain a license from the village, upon payment of
a license fee. Application for such license shall be made to the Chief of
Police upon a form to be supplied by the Village Clerk for that purpose. Each
license shall become effective as of May 1 of each year and expire as of the
following April 30.
   (B)   Each license shall recite the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person, firm, corporation, or association to whom
the license is issued;
      (2)   The premises upon which the machines or devices are situated;
      (3)   The number of machines or devices authorized to be placed on such
premises pursuant to the terms herein; and
      (4)   The total license fee paid pursuant to §
112.20.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-3) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
§ 112.18 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for such license shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, age, date, and place of birth, Social Security
number, and business identification number of each person having a legal or
equitable interest in a proprietorship, partnership, or corporation applying
for a license;
      (2)   The place where each machine or device is to be displayed or
operated and the business conducted at that place; and
      (3)   A description of each machine or device to be covered by the
license, mechanical features, names of manufacturers, and serial number.
    (B)   No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he or she shall be
over 21 years of age and a citizen of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-4) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
§ 112.19 INSPECTION.
   Application for license shall be made out in duplicate, one copy being
referred to the Chief of Police and the other copy to the Village Building
Inspector.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the location wherein it is
proposed to operate such machine(s) or device(s). The Board of Trustees shall
either approve or disapprove the application.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall inspect all wiring, the connections to
the machine(s) or device(s), to determine if the same complies with the
Electrical Code of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-5) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
§ 112.20 LICENSE FEES.
   Every applicant, before being granted a license, shall pay the following
annual fees in order to operate or maintain a COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE as
defined in §
112.15:
   (A)   Annual fee for original or renewed license shall be in an amount as
set forth in §
35.02; and
   (B)   Annual fee for gaming device licensed by the state shall be in an
amount as set forth in §
35.02.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-6) (Ord. 12-8, passed 7-16-2012)
§ 112.21 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license or licenses herein provided for shall be posted
prominently or conspicuously at the location of the machine(s) or device(s) in
the premises wherein the machine(s) or device(s) is to be operated or
maintained to be operated.
   (B)   Each machine or device shall have a village sticker, as designated by
the Village Clerk, affixed thereto in a prominent or conspicuous location.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-7) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
§ 112.22 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued under this subchapter is subject to the right, which is
hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licenses directly or
indirectly permit the operation, of a coin operated amusement device contrary
to the provisions of this subchapter, and the ordinances or the village, or the
laws or the state. Such license may be revoked by the Board of Trustees after
written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the ordinances or
law violations with which the licensee is charged, the date on which a hearing
regarding the alleged violation will be held, and the consequences which will
follow if, after a hearing, the licensee is found to be guilty or such
violations. Ten days’ notice of the hearing shall be given the licensee. At
such hearing, the licensee and his or her attorney may present and submit
evidence and witnesses in his or her defense.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-8) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
§ 112.23 SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF MACHINE OR DEVICE.
   If the Chief of Police shall have reason to believe any mechanical or
electronic amusement machine or device is used as a gambling device, such
machine or device may be seized by the police and impounded. If a finding of
guilt regarding the belief is returned, such machine or device shall be
destroyed by the police.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-9) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
§ 112.24 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In the event any violation of this subchapter is of a continuing nature, the
Chief of Police is hereby authorized to seek an injunction in the circuit court
to enjoin the operation of the offending amusement establishment as a nuisance
and the operation of the mechanical or electronic amusement device(s),
cigarette machine(s), or jukebox(es) located therein. The Chief of Police shall
bring such action in the name of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-11) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, or association violating any of the
provisions of §§
112.15 through
112.24, in addition to the revocation or his, her, or its license, shall be
liable for a fine or penalty in an amount as set forth in §
35.01 for each offense. Each day of noncompliance or violation shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-10) (Ord. passed 6-10-1996)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Peddlers and Hawkers
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application
   
113.04   Licensing fee
   
113.05   Exemptions
Solicitors and Canvassers
   
113.20   Permit required
   
113.21   Application
   
113.22   Exhibition of permit and badge
   
113.23   Photograph on record
   
113.24   Revocation of permit
   
113.25   Permit fee
PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER or PEDDLER. Every person who shall sell or offer for sale any goods,
wares, merchandise, or other articles of value; or barter, exchange, or by
gift, enterprise, or otherwise attempt to do the same at any place in, upon,
along, or through the streets, avenues, alleys, or other public places, or
temporarily in any building or place of business within the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any hawker or peddler to exercise his or her
calling within the village without first having obtained a license for such
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION.
   The application procedure for a hawker’s or peddler’s license shall be in
the same form and in the same manner as the application for solicitors and
canvassers in accordance with §
113.21.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3)
§ 113.04 LICENSING FEE.
   Such hawker’s or peddler’s license shall be issued after compliance herewith
upon payment of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for each permit issued to the hawker or peddler by the village, and each
such permit shall expire 30 days after its issuance. Licenses are valid between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. through 7:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4)
§ 113.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to that class of persons provided as an
exception by the state statutes, coming in from the country with teams or
otherwise with produce for market, or to any person selling vegetables,
berries, or the products of their own farm or premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 17, passed 4-14-1899)
SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
§ 113.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any private residence,
apartment, or premises in the village for the purpose of soliciting from the
occupants thereof, or to canvass for orders for goods, wares, merchandise, or
services of any character or description or for the purpose of offering to give
or to furnish or giving or furnishing any goods, wares, merchandise, or
services to any such occupants to induce or invite such orders, without having
first applied for and received from the Chief of Police a solicitor’s permit to
do so.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.21 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to secure such a solicitor’s permit shall apply
therefor in writing over his or her signature to the Chief of Police on forms
provided by the village, and such application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the person, firm, or corporation by whom
employed;
      (3)   The length of service of such applicant with such employer;
      (4)   The place of residence and nature of the employment of the
applicant during the last preceding year;
      (5)   The nature or character of the goods, wares, merchandise, or
services to be offered by the applicant; and
      (6)   The personal description and complete identification of the
applicant. Such application shall be accompanied by such credentials and other
evidence of good moral character and identity of the applicant, as may be
reasonably required by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   In addition thereto, such applicant shall furnish two satisfactory
photos, size one-inch by two and one-half inches of himself or herself at the
time the license is granted by the village, and also shall furnish his or her
fingerprints to the Police Department at the time the application is made for
permit, and such application shall be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of
an amount as set forth in §
35.02, executed by a surety company, conditioned that all goods, wares,
merchandise, or articles sold by such applicant will be represented by him or
her and that he or she will refund the purchase price of any goods, wares,
merchandise, or articles sold by him or her which are not as represented. Any
person aggrieved by the action of any such applicant shall have the right of
action on the bond for the recovery of money or damages, or both.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2)
§ 113.22 EXHIBITION OF PERMIT AND BADGE.
   Such permit shall be carried at all times by the applicant to whom issued,
when soliciting or canvassing in the village, and shall be exhibited by any
such applicant whenever he or she shall be requested to do so by any police
officer or any person solicited. A badge in which the village shall have
inserted one of the photos furnished by said applicant shall be worn and
conspicuously displayed by the solicitor on his or her outer garment at all
times while engaged in business in the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3)
§ 113.23 PHOTOGRAPH ON RECORD.
   The Chief of Police shall file one of the photos of the applicant, required
above, permanently in the records of the Police Department. The other shall be
inserted in the badge to be furnished by the village bearing the word
“solicitor,” which badge shall be worn by the applicant as hereinbefore
provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4)
§ 113.24 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any such permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police for violations by the
holder thereof of any of the provisions of this village code or of any state or
federal law, or whenever the holder of such permit shall cease to possess the
character and qualification required by this subchapter for the issuance of
such permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5)
§ 113.25 PERMIT FEE.
   Before a permit shall be issued to any applicant, he or she shall pay to the
Village Clerk a fee of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for each permit issued to him or her by the village, and each permit
shall expire 30 days after its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6) (Ord. passed 8-2-1954)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   Location of poles or towers
   
114.02   Permission to affix cables or wires
   
114.03   Repair of damaged streets and sidewalks
   
114.04   Liability insurance required
   
114.05   Installations
   
114.06   Signal distribution facilities
   
114.07   Percentage of gross revenues
   
114.08   Installation in schools
   
114.09   Single outlet installations
   
114.10   Cable signals
   
114.11   Television set sales or service field
   
114.12   Servicing equipment
   
114.13   Fees
   
114.14   Emergency announcements
   
114.15   Pay television programming
   
114.16   Selling of facilities
§ 114.01 LOCATION OF POLES OR TOWERS.
   Poles or towers shall be so erected as not to interfere with the traffic
over the streets and alleys, and the locations of the poles, towers, or the
obstructions shall be by prior approval of the village, as to such location
giving consideration to the reasonable operation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-2)
§ 114.02 PERMISSION TO AFFIX CABLES OR WIRES.
   Permission is hereby granted the said grantee and its assigns to attach or
otherwise affix cables or wires to the pole facilities of any public utility
company even though the same may pass over streets, sidewalks, public lanes, or
highways of the village; provided, the said grantee secures the permission and
consent of said aforementioned public utility companies concerned to affix the
said cable and/or wires or other apparatus to their pole facilities.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-3)
§ 114.03 REPAIR OF DAMAGED STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   All streets and sidewalks damaged in the construction or maintenance of said
cable lines and other appurtenances shall be promptly repaired by the grantee
at its expense and to the satisfaction of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-4)
§ 114.04 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The grantee shall hold the village harmless from all claims for damages
arising out of construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or operation of said
cable lines or other structures or appurtenances. Furthermore, the company
shall carry insurance to protect the parties hereto from and against all
claims, demands, actions, judgments, costs, expenses, and liabilities which may
arise or result directly or indirectly from or by reason of such loss, injury,
or damage. The amounts of such insurance against liability due to physical
damage to property shall not be less than $25,000 as to any one accident and
not less than $200,000 aggregate in any single policy year, and against
liability due to bodily injury or to death of persons not less than $500,000 as
to any one accident. The company shall also carry such insurance as it deems
necessary to protect it from all claims under the worker’s compensation laws in
effect that may be applicable to the company. Said policies of insurance or a
certified copy or copies thereof shall be deposited with and kept on file by
the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-5)
§ 114.05 INSTALLATIONS.
   Installations shall be maintained as not to interfere with the existing off
air TV reception, or that which may be available at some future date.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-6)
§ 114.06 SIGNAL DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES.
   The company agrees to install signal distribution facilities subject to
satisfactory pole clearance and pole rental arrangements to residents of the
village as economically feasible.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-7)
§ 114.07 PERCENTAGE OF GROSS REVENUES.
   The grantee agrees to pay to the village a percentage of its gross revenues
received from its residential subscribers in the village for the service of
distributing commercial television station signals into residential
subscribers, homes, and from its Pay Television revenues. The percentage of
these gross residential receipts shall be payable to the village at the end of
each fiscal year of the grantee as follows: 3% of all annual gross receipts
from basic service and Pay TV income.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-8)
§ 114.08 INSTALLATION IN SCHOOLS.
   The company agrees to install cable lines to all schools within the village,
and shall make the signals that are then available free of charge (excluding
Pay TV signals) to all schools within the village, provided the school or
schools is/are situated in an area where cable facilities are available. The
company shall furthermore provide at least one educational TV signal.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-9)
§ 114.09 SINGLE OUTLET INSTALLATIONS.
   The company agrees to provide the village single outlet installations for
use in village departments without connection or monthly service charge;
provided, such installation is within the service area of the system.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-10)
§ 114.10 CABLE SIGNALS.
   The company agrees to install and maintain a full wide band system capable
of delivering up to 30 channels of TV signals, and broadbanded FM radio signals
(20 or more FM stations). The company agrees to maintain a minimum number of
ten channels of signal, and two channels of locally originated signals.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-11)
§ 114.11 TELEVISION SET SALES OR SERVICE FIELD.
   The company agrees it shall at no time enter into the TV set sales or
service field. However, this is not to be construed to prevent servicing of its
own equipment, or servicing that which it has installed upon its customers’
premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-12)
§ 114.12 SERVICING EQUIPMENT.
   The company agrees to maintain a local business office agent within the
village for accepting payments and inquiries regarding service. Inhabitants
inquiries or complaints can also be made via non-toll telephone call to
company’s main office 24 hours per day. Individual service problems will be
handled within a matter of hours, those that occur after 8:00 p.m. will be
taken care of early the following morning. Company technicians will respond to
total system service problems whenever they occur seven days per week. If
service is lost on all channels for a period exceeding 48 hours the subscriber
will be refunded prorated amount of the service fee for service lost beyond
that time. The company agrees to notify subscribers of all company policies
regarding service and complaint procedures, and shall maintain a service log
which will be made available for inspection by the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-13) (Ord. 5-79, passed 11-13-1978)
§ 114.13 FEES.
   (A)   The company may increase any of the rates covered by this chapter, so
long as the net effect of that increase does not result in a percentage
increase in the overage rate charged to a residential subscriber that is
greater than the percentage increase as reflected by the Cost of Living Index
published by the United States Department of Labor, calculated from the date of
the previous increase.
   (B)   The company shall make public notice of any increases in the monthly
fee to a residential subscriber 30 days prior to its effect.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-14) (Ord. 6-79, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 114.14 EMERGENCY ANNOUNCEMENTS.
   As a public service the entire cable system will be available to responsible
officials to make civil defense or other emergency announcements. All channels
may be simultaneously switched, at the control center, to “local pick up” with
all TV receivers connected to the TV Cable System receiving the announcement.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-15)
§ 114.15 PAY TELEVISION PROGRAMMING.
   The company agrees that Home Box Office pay TV programming, or a similar
service, will also be offered and made available to village inhabitants, at an
additional cost. This service will be made available concurrent with the start
of basic service.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-16)
§ 114.16 SELLING OF FACILITIES.
   If at any time in the future the company decides to sell its facilities, the
same shall be offered to the village for purchase and the village shall have a
first refusal. Acceptance or rejection by the village shall be made in writing
not later than 30 days after receipt in writing from the company of such offer.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-17) (Ord. 5-79, passed 11-13-1978)
CHAPTER 115: SPECIALIZED SALES AND SERVICES
Section
Junk Dealers
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Application
   
115.03   License fee
   
115.04   Bond
   
115.05   Change of location
   
115.06   Term of license
Garbage and Rubbish Collectors
   
115.20   Regulations of collectors
   
115.21   Collection by village
   
115.22   Issuance of licenses
   
115.23   License requirements
JUNK DEALERS
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall use, exercise, or carry on the business of a keeper of a
junkyard or what is commonly called a junk shop for the purchase, sale, and
storage of junk, rags, empty bottles, old rope, paper, or bagging, old iron,
brass, copper, tin, or other metals without being specially licensed for such
purpose; nor shall any person carry on such business at any other location than
the one designated in such license; nor shall any person continue to carry on
such business if such license may have been revoked.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 115.02 APPLICATION.
   The President of the village may grant license to any person as he or she
may deem proper, to keep what are commonly called junk shops, for the purchase,
sale, and storage of junk, old rope, empty bottles, old iron, brass, copper,
tin, lead, or other metals. Such license shall be granted only on application
of the person desiring the same, stating the location of the place where it is
proposed to carry on such business, and such place shall be designated in such
license.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2)
§ 115.03 LICENSE FEE.
   Every retail junk dealer receiving a license for a retail junk store or a
retail junk yard shall pay to the Village Clerk an amount as set forth in §
35.02. All licenses shall be due on May 1 of each year and shall expire on
April 30 following the date of issuance, and when issued for a period of less
than one year the fee to be paid shall be a proportionate part of the fee fixed
by this section, providing that no fee shall be less than one-half of the
annual fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 115.04 BOND.
   Every person so licensed shall at the time of receiving such license, enter
with sufficient surety into a joint and several bond to the village in the
penal sum of an amount as set forth in §
35.02, conditioned for the due observance of this subchapter or any other
provisions of this village code respecting the keeping of junk shops at any
time during the continuance of such license.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4)
§ 115.05 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   In case any person so licensed is desirous to change the location of a store
or place of business from the place designated in said license, said keeper
shall give notice to the village of the intent to change location, and if said
change of location shall not be deemed proper by the village, such license
shall be revoked upon the removal of the business to another location.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
§ 115.06 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Every such license shall continue in force until April 30 next following the
granting thereof, unless sooner revoked by the Village Board, and no longer.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. passed 5-24-1948)
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH COLLECTORS
§ 115.20 REGULATIONS OF COLLECTORS.
   The business of collecting and disposing of garbage, ashes and household
rubbish for hire, and of transporting any or all of them over the streets of
the village without a permit, is declared to be a nuisance, and said business
shall not be carried on by any person, firm, or corporation excepting under the
condition prescribed in the ordinance of the village now in effect or as same
may from time to time be amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1)
§ 115.21 COLLECTION BY VILLAGE.
   The Public Works Department of the village may collect and dispose of
garbage, ashes, and rubbish in accordance with such rules and regulations as to
service and rates of charge as may be approved by the Village Board from time
to time. No owner, occupant, or lessee of any premises in the village shall be
entitled to such service from the Public Works Department who has not complied
fully with all of the provisions of this subchapter and with the rules and
regulations of the Public Works Department as approved by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, generally, see
Chapter 52
§ 115.22 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   There shall be issued annually licenses for the collection of rubbish as
defined herein within the village, and these licenses shall be issued upon
application and shall be issued on and before May 1 of the calendar year for
any person, firm, or corporation to whom the Village Trustees feel in their
sole discretion are qualified to perform these services.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3) (Ord. 2-77, passed 5-10-1976)
§ 115.23 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the issuance of any license for the collection of rubbish, the
applicant must present proof of insurance coverage to the Village Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4) (Ord. passed 5-9-1988)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES, GENERALLY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES, GENERALLY
Section
Offenses Against Property
   
130.01   Fire hydrants, unlawful use
   
130.02   Injuring property
   
130.03   Solicitors, peddlers; invitation required
   
130.04   Loitering prohibited
   
130.05   Presence of certain persons on premises
Offenses Against Public Peace and Morals
   
130.20   Offensive conduct
   
130.21   Assemblage; unlawful, disturbing
   
130.22   Fireworks
   
130.23   Gambling
   
130.24   Officers, hindering
   
130.25   Indecent exposure; lewd behavior
   
130.26   House of prostitution
   
130.27   Gang activity
   
130.28   Mob action
   
130.29   Narcotics
Offenses Involving Minors
   
130.40   Furnishing firearms to minor
   
130.41   Minors playing near railroads
   
130.42   Curfew
   
130.43   Possession of tobacco by minors
   
130.44   Sale of liquor and tobacco by minors
   
130.45   Sale of alcohol to minors
   
130.46   Presence of minors in business establishments holding liquor licenses
   
130.47   Parental irresponsibility and truancy
Weapons
   
130.60   Firearms; discharging
   
130.61   Killing, wounding birds
   
130.62   Throwing missiles
   
130.63   Bows and arrows
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.01 FIRE HYDRANTS, UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully turn any stream of water
from any fire hose upon any person or upon any private premises, on the
occasion of any exhibition or tournament or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 5, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 INJURING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To unlawfully carry away or remove, destroy, or assist in injuring,
destroying, or removing any public building, sidewalk, or property belonging to
the village of whatever kind; or to wilfully change, remove, or destroy any
stone, stake, or post set or placed to mark the corner of any lot or parcel of
ground, street, or alley, or to show the grade of any street, alley, or
sidewalk of the village; or
   (B)   To wantonly mar, injure, deface, or destroy any fence, guidepost,
signboard, or awning in any street or public place in the village; or to cut,
injure, mark, or deface any public building, station, or house belonging to the
village; or to intentionally deface any building or sign either public or
private; or to deface, obliterate, or tear down or destroy in whole or in part
any proclamation, advertisement, or notice set up at any place by authority of
law, or by order of any court, during the time the same is to remain posted.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) (Ord. 8, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS; INVITATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments, or offices in the village by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants, and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited so to do by the owner or occupant of said private
residence, business establishment, or office for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise and/or for the purpose of
disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The Police Department of the village is hereby required and directed
to suppress the same, and to abate any such nuisance as is described in this
section.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons employed by
or representing any established merchant, business, firm, or corporation
located and regularly doing business in the village or to farmers selling any
load item raised or produced by themselves, and/or to permanently established
residents who are voters in the village or anyone duly licensed.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-12) (Ord. passed 10-8-1934) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PRESENCE OF CERTAIN PERSONS ON PREMISES.
   No person who is intoxicated, a known narcotic addict, or insane shall be
permitted in or allowed to loiter about or in any establishment licensed to
sell or distribute alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-26) (Ord. passed 1-13-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND MORALS
§ 130.20 OFFENSIVE CONDUCT.
   No person in the city shall:
   (A)   Disturb, tend to disturb, or aid in disturbing the peace of others by
violent, tumultuous, offensive, or obstreperous conduct, and no person shall
knowingly permit such conduct upon any premises owned or possessed by him or
her or under his or her control;
   (B)   Assault, beat, wound, strike, imprison, or inflict violence on another
where the circumstances show malice or assault with intent to commit any
misdemeanor or felony. Nor shall any person assault another with a lethal
weapon, instrument, or thing with intent to commit upon the person of another
any bodily injury where no considerable provocation appears or where the
circumstances of the assault show malice;
   (C)   Fight another person;
   (D)   Loiter or stroll in, about, or upon any street, alley, or other public
way or public place, or in any public gathering or assembly, or in or around
any store, shop, or business or commercial establishment, or in the private
property or place without lawful business or conduct himself or herself in a
lewd, wanton, or lascivious manner in speech or behavior; or
   (E)   Wander the streets, alleys, or other public ways or other places at
late or unusual hours in the night without any visible or lawful business and
not giving a satisfactory account of himself or herself.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-19) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 ASSEMBLAGE; UNLAWFUL, DISTURBING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, aid, countenance, or
assist in making any improper noise, riot, disturbance, or diversion in the
streets or elsewhere in the village, or to collect in bodies or crowds for
unlawful purposes to the annoyance or disturbance of citizens or travelers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quiet of
any family or of any congregation or assembly met for religious worship by
making a noise or by rude or indecent behavior or profane or vulgar discourse
within their place of worship or so near the same as to disturb the order and
solemnity; or to unlawfully interrupt or disturb any funeral procession or
assembly or disturb the peace and quiet at any show, exhibition, theater, or
place of amusement, or any election poll in the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 8, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, discharge, or set off, within
the limits of the village, any common piece of artillery, rocket, cracker,
torpedo, squib, or other fireworks or thing containing any substance of an
explosive nature; provided, however, that the President may by proclamation
permit the use of the same on July 4 and on such other days as he or she in his
or her discretion may deem proper.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 8, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 GAMBLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up, maintain or support or
be an inmate of, or in any way connected with, or to frequent or visit or be
found within any gambling house or room or place used for the practice of
gambling or playing for money or property; or to knowingly permit any building
or premises owned or controlled by him or her to be used for such purpose; or
to keep or use or permit to be used in any building or place occupied,
controlled, or owned by such person, any wheel of fortune, roulette,
shuffleboard, cards, dice, or other instrument or device commonly used for the
purpose of gaming; or to conduct or be connected with any game of chance or
hazard; or to allow, permit, or encourage any person to wager or bet any money
or other valuable thing on the game or games played on any billiard table,
pigeon hole table, bagatelle table, or pool table or any other such table, or
any pin or ball alley, whether licensed or not. This section shall not apply to
video gaming machines licensed by the state pursuant to the Video Gaming Act,
being 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
   (B)   No retailer of liquors licensed under the provisions of this village
code or any other person shall, by himself or herself, his or her agent,
servant, or clerk, suffer or permit any species of gaming in any part of his or
her premises or in any place adjacent thereto under his or her control, except
as permitted pursuant to 230 ILCS 40/1 et. seq.
   (C)   Any machines licensed by the state pursuant to 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
shall conspicuously post said license for such gaming terminal/machine in plain
view of the public.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) (Ord. 12-9, passed 7-16-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 OFFICERS, HINDERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or obstruct any person
employed by the Board of Trustees or the Director of Public Works or person
employed by him or her in any village improvement or public work whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-6) (Ord. 8, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 INDECENT EXPOSURE; LEWD BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose his or her naked person; or to
commit any lewd, indecent, or filthy act within the village; or, within any
public place in the village, to use any obscene or profane language; or to make
any obscene gesture to or about any person, publicly; or to write, draw, or
make any lewd or indecent word, sentence, design, words, or motions commonly
understood to be indecent; or to indecently exhibit any male animal, or to let
or put any such male animal to any female animal within the limits of the
village unless in some enclosed place out of public view and hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) (Ord. 5, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful within the village for any person to keep or maintain,
or be an inmate of, or frequent or visit, or in any way be connected with or
contribute to the support of any disorderly house, house of ill-fame or
assignation; or knowingly to own or be interested therein as a proprietor or
landlord of any such house or place; or to be found therein.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-11) (Ord. 5, passed 4-10-1899)
§ 130.27 GANG ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Temporary questioning without arrest. A police officer, after having
identified himself or herself as a police officer, may stop any person in a
public place for a reasonable period of time when the person is wearing known
gang colors, emblems, or other gang insignia, or appears to be engaged in
communicating gang-related messages through the use of hand signals or other
means of communication, or as otherwise provided by law, and the officer
reasonably infers from the circumstances that the person is committing, is
about to commit or has committed any offense set forth in the ordinances of the
city. Once stopped, the officer may demand the name and address of the person
and an explanation of his or her actions. Such detention and temporary
questioning will be conducted in the vicinity of where the person was stopped.
   (B)   Search for weapons. When a police officer has stopped a person for
temporary questioning pursuant to division (A) above and the officer reasonably
suspects that he or she or another officer is in danger of attack, he or she
may search the persons for weapons. If an officer discovers a weapon, he or she
may take it until the completion of the questioning, at which time he or she
shall return the weapon, if lawfully possessed, or arrest the person so
questioned.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-16) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 MOB ACTION.
   (A)   MOB ACTION consists of any of the following:
      (1)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of the law;
      (2)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      (3)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to be involved in mob action.
   (C)   Any participant in a mob action who does not withdraw on being
commanded to do so by any police officer shall be guilty of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-17) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.29 NARCOTICS.
   (A)   Unlawful. Except as allowed by law, no person in the village shall
sell, give away, use, or possess for any purpose whatsoever any narcotic drug.
   (B)   Seizure of narcotic drugs. All narcotic drugs in the possession of any
person convicted of a violation of this section shall be seized by, confiscated
by, and forfeited to the Chief of Police who shall make proper distribution
thereof.
   (C)   Seizure of vehicle. Any vehicle from which seized drugs are removed,
the vehicle being owned by the person convicted of a violation of this section,
shall be seized by, confiscated by, and forfeited to the Chief of Police and
subsequently sold at public auction to the highest bidder in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-18) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
§ 130.40 FURNISHING FIREARMS TO MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loan or furnish to any minor, not
being the parent, guardian, or employer of such minor, any gun, pistol, or any
other firearm.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 8, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.41 MINORS PLAYING NEAR RAILROADS.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to play upon or about any railroad track,
depot, locomotive, or car within the village; or to climb upon or jump from any
car or train of cars, or from one car to another while the same may be in
motion, or starting to move, unless employed for such service by some railroad
company. It is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police to enforce
vigorously the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10) (Ord. 5, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 CURFEW.
   (A)   Age and hour restrictions. It is unlawful for a person less than 17
years of age to be present at, in or upon any public assembly, building, place,
street, or highway at the following times unless accompanied and supervised by
a parent, legal guardian, or other responsible companion at least 18 years of
age, approved by a parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the laws of this state authorize a person less than 17 years
of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (B)   Violation, knowingly permit. It is unlawful for a parent, legal
guardian, or other person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or
control to violate this section.
   (C)   Exemptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-15) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 POSSESSION OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   No minor under 18 years of age shall have in his or her possession any cigar
or cigarette or tobacco in any of its forms. It shall not be a violation of
this section for any person under 18 years of age to possess tobacco while in
the presence of his or her parents or guardian, or in the performance of a
religious ceremony, or while participating in a theatrical performance.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-22) (Ord. passed 1-9-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.44 SALE OF LIQUOR AND TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent, or employee of such licensee to employ a minor
for the purposes of or allow any minor to draw, pour, or mix any alcoholic
liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent, or employee of such licensee to employ anyone
under the legal drinking age for the purposes of or to allow anyone of such age
to sell any alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to sell any
tobacco product including, but not limited to, said minor making the sale as an
employee of a retail establishment within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-23) (Ord. passed 5-8-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.45 SALE OF ALCOHOL TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent, or employee of such licensee to sell, give, or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21 years.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-24) (Ord. passed 1-13-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.46 PRESENCE OF MINORS IN BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS HOLDING LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years unaccompanied by his or her parent
or legal guardian shall be permitted in or allowed to loiter about a business
establishment licensed to sell alcohol. This section shall not apply to hotels,
restaurants, where regular meals are served, stores, clubs, or bowling alleys
during the hours they are engaged in the full operation of such business.
Restaurants with bar facilities shall not be occupied by minors under the age
of 21 at any time during which said restaurant’s full menu is not available for
purchase and consumption.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years unaccompanied by his or her parent
or legal guardian shall be allowed to occupy any gaming room which is attached
to or accessible from any licensed liquor establishment if alcoholic liquor is
allowed within such room.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-25) (Ord. passed 1-13-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.47 PARENTAL IRRESPONSIBILITY AND TRUANCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor
by a circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the State Juvenile Court Act, being
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
      MINOR. A person who has attained 11 years of age, but who has not yet
reached 18 years of age.
      PROPERTY. Any real estate, including improvements thereon, and tangible
personal property.
    (B)   Offense of parental irresponsibility.
      (1)   Offense. It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor residing with that parent or legal guardian to fail to
exercise proper parental responsibility by allowing or permitting the minor to
commit any violation of a state statute concerning vandalism, battery, curfew,
truancy, disorderly conduct, obscene conduct, trespass, or possession or use of
alcohol, liquor, cannabis, or controlled substances, or any other offense of
wilful or malicious acts to persons or property within village limits.
      (2)   Truancy. It shall further be unlawful for any person under the age
of 18 years, who is enrolled in any public, private, parochial school, or
homeschool to be present in any public place, building, street, or assembly in
the village, other than school, during any hours when school is in session
during the regular school term unless he or she is:
         (a)   Traveling to or from school by the most direct route;
         (b)   Accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or school official;
         (c)   Engaged in school related activities with written approval of
school authorities;
         (d)   Engaged in personal business, including, but not limited to,
employment, medical care, or religious activities, with prior notice from a
parent or legal guardian to school authorities; or
         (e)   Persons suspended or expelled from any public, private,
parochial school, or homeschool who are in violation of this section, shall be
deemed truant, and this section shall apply to them and shall be in full force
and effect.
      (3)   Presumption. A parent or legal guardian shall be presumed to have
allowed or permitted the minor to have committed a violation of a state statute
under all of the following conditions:
         (a)   The minor has been either adjudicated to be in violation of a
state statute or has been charged with any such violation (except if found to
be not guilty); or has incurred nonjudicial sanctions from any peace officer or
conservator of the peace resulting from an admission of guilt to any such
offenses; and
         (b)   The parent or legal guardian has received a written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service in
substantially the following form:
 
LEGAL NOTICE
 
(Date) __________________
 
TO: (Parents’ Names)
 
FROM: Village of St. Anne
 
YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that (minor’s name) has been involved in a violation of
the state statute concerning vandalism, battery, curfew, truancy, disorderly
conduct, obscene conduct, trespass, possession or use of alcohol, liquor,
cannabis, or controlled substances, or any other offense or willful or malicious
acts to persons or property. If said minor is again involved in a violation of
one of the above type state statutes, you may be found guilty of the offense of
parental irresponsibility. Conviction for said offense can result in a fine of
not less than $50 nor more than $500.
 
You are hereby further notified that you must exercise proper parental
responsibility over said minor by controlling his or her unlawful conduct.
 
_____________________________________
(Signature)
 
______________________________________
(Title or Position)
 
         (c)   Said minor, within two years of the receipt of said notice by
the parent or legal guardian, has either adjudicated to have committed, has
been charged with the violation (except if found not to be guilty) of, or has
admitted to having committed any violation of any statute described above.
   (C)   Detention. A police officer may stop and detain a person whom the
officer reasonably suspects to be violating this section for the purpose of
verifying the person’s identity, age, school enrollment, and authority to be
absent from school. The police officer shall immediately inform the person of
the reason of the detention, and they will be released upon verification of the
authorization to be absent from school. The person shall not be removed from
the scene of the investigatory detention unless he or she refuses to provide
the officer with the necessary information, or in the alternative and if
practical, shall be taken to school authorities or a parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-27) (Ord. passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
WEAPONS
§ 130.60 FIREARMS; DISCHARGING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or air gun in the
village. This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law
from discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duty or any citizen
from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or
property.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 1-74, passed 1-14-1974) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.61 KILLING, WOUNDING BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, wound, or attempt to kill or
wound by any means whatsoever any bird within the village limits, or to shoot
an arrow or stone or throw a club or other missile at any such bird within any
private or public grounds (such animal not being the property of the person so
offending); or to enter upon any private enclosure or public ground for the
purpose of doing any act prohibited in this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-9) (Ord. 8, passed 4-10-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.62 THROWING MISSILES.
   No person shall wilfully cast or throw any stone, brick, or other missile
upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or upon or
at any person in any street, avenue, alley, public place, or enclosed or
unenclosed ground in the village, or aid or abet in the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.63 BOWS AND ARROWS.
   No person shall purposefully or heedlessly shoot or cause to be shot any
arrow, projectile, or other missile from a bow from or into any public place,
or at any house, vehicle, property, person, or animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-20) (Ord. passed 6-13-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §§
130.20,
130.27 though
130.29,
130.42, or
130.63 shall be fined in an amount as set forth in §
35.01 for each offense and shall be responsible for the village’s costs of
prosecution. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made for any property
damaged or destroyed or to any person injured.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-21)
   (C)   A person convicted of a violation of any provision of §
130.42 shall be fined in an amount as set forth in §
35.01.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-15)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
130.43 is guilty of a petty offense and for the first offense shall be fined in
an amount as set forth in §
35.01.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-22)
   (E)   Any person found to be in violation of §
130.47 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to a fine in an amount
as set forth in §
35.01.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-27)
   (F)   A violator of §
130.60 shall be punished by a fine in an amount as set forth in §
35.01.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
(Ord. 1-74, passed 1-14-1974; Ord. passed 12-13-1994; Ord. passed 1-9-1995;
Ord. passed 3-12-2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Codes
   
150.01   Codes adopted
Construction Requirements
   
150.15   Water and sewer piping placement
   
150.16   Moving buildings
   
150.17   Smoke detectors/carbon monoxide detectors
Sidewalk Construction
   
150.30   Deposit required; request to construct
   
150.31   Resolution to construct
   
150.32   Bond of builder
   
150.33   Sidewalk specifications
   
150.34   Supervision and inspection
   
150.35   Building Inspector approval required
   
150.36   Sidewalk reimbursement program
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.01 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The following codes are hereby adopted by reference.
      (1)   The 2000 International Building Code, and such updates and
amendments as occur on an annual basis;
      (2)   The 2000 International One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code and such
updates and amendments as occur on an annual basis;
      (3)   The 2000 International Mechanical Code, and such updates and
amendments as occur on an annual basis;
      (4)   The 2000 ICC Electrical Code, and such updates and amendments as
occur on an annual basis;
      (5)   The current publication of the State Plumbing Code, and such
updates and amendments as occur on an annual basis;
      (6)   The 2000 International Property Maintenance Code, and such updates
and amendments as occur on an annual basis; and
      (7)   The 2000 International Fire Code, and such updates and amendments
as occur on an annual basis.
   (B)   Three copies of the 2000 International Building Code, the 2000
International One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, the 2000 International
Mechanical Code, the 2000 ICC Electrical Code, the current publication of the
State Plumbing Code, the 2000 International Property Maintenance Code, and the
2000 International Fire Code shall be kept on file in the office of the Village
Clerk for public use, inspection, and examination.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. passed 2-11-2002)
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.15 WATER AND SEWER PIPING PLACEMENT.
   (A)   No building shall be allowed to hook up to the village water or sewer
or any private water or sewer system if the mechanism for transporting either
water or sewer crosses over the property into an adjacent property owner’s lot.
   (B)   It shall further be required that the owner of land seeking to connect
to the village water or sewer shall do so by connecting to the closest
available portion of the system and connecting at their own cost.
   (C)   All hookup fees for water shall be paid prior to the issuance of a
building permit for such water lines.
   (D)   All hookup fees for sewer shall be paid prior to the issuance of a
building permit for such sewer lines.
   (E)   No occupancy permit, whether temporary or permanent, shall be issued
for a dwelling which has not paid water or sewer hookup fees.
   (F)   No party shall be provided water or sewer service by the village prior
to the payment in full of all outstanding water and sewer fees due to the
village for this property or any property owned by person seeking said service.
   (G)   No party shall be provided water or sewer service by the village prior
to the payment in full of all hookup fees.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1) (Ord. passed 2-9-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Chapter 50
   Water, see
Chapter 51
§ 150.16 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall move any building on, through, or
over any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in the village without
having obtained a permit therefor from the Village Board. Applications for such
permits shall be made in writing to the Clerk and state thereon the proposed
route and the number of days it is intended that the building shall occupy any
portion of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
   (B)   Bond. Every person applying for a permit under this chapter shall
submit with his or her application a cash bond or bond with a lawful corporate
surety to be approved by the Board, conditioned on his or her compliance with
all the provisions of this chapter, and agreeing to pay and holding the village
harmless from any claim which may be made against it by reason of the
occupation of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place by the
building or structure moved, and agreeing further to pay for any damages to any
public property, caused by the moving of buildings within the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
(Ord. passed 12-1-1947)
§ 150.17 SMOKE DETECTORS/CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Smoke detectors required. Every builder of each new dwelling unit is
hereby required to install approved smoke detector or detectors in each
dwelling unit as hereinafter provided. Every owner of each existing dwelling
unit is hereby required to install approved smoke detector or detectors in each
dwelling unit as hereinafter provided. A DWELLING UNIT is defined as a single-
family residence, apartment, efficiency apartment, and home trailer. Approved
smoke detectors shall be capable of sensing visible or invisible particles of
combustion and shall provide an alarm signaling device which, when activated,
shall be clearly audible in all sleeping rooms when all intervening doors are
closed. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
be subject to a fine in accordance with §
10.99, and each and every day such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Location of smoke detectors. At least one approved smoke detector
shall be installed near each sleeping area to protect each sleeping area. A
SLEEPING AREA is defined as an area or areas in which sleeping rooms are
located. Where sleeping rooms are separated by other use areas, excluding
bathrooms and closets, they shall be considered as separate areas; each
requiring an approved smoke detector. At least one approved smoke detector
shall be installed at the top of each stairway leading to an occupied area,
including the top of a stairway from a basement. An occupied area includes, but
is not limited to, a sleeping area. An approved smoke detector shall be
installed at a location at the top of each stairway in such a manner as to
assure that rising visible or invisible particles of combustion are not
obstructed in reaching the detector and that the detector intercepts rising
visible or invisible particles of combustion before they reach an occupied
sleeping area.
   (C)   Equipment. All devices, combinations of devices, and equipment
required herein shall be installed in conformance with the Building Code, this
section, and be approved by the Bureau of Fire Prevention. Approved smoke
detectors, as required by this section, shall be those listed by Underwriters
Laboratories Inc. and Factory Mutual. Approved smoke detectors listed by
Underwriters Laboratories Inc., and Factory Mutual shall be used unless the
Director of the Bureau of Fire Prevention subsequently finds that the equipment
is hazardous or unreliable, in which case, the Director may suspend or revoke
an approved smoke detector. The Director may in any such case determine whether
replacement of existing installation shall be required.
   (D)   Installation. In new residential occupancies, smoke detectors shall be
connected to the building’s electrical circuit without a disconnect wall switch
and be permanently mounted to a standard electrical outlet or junction box on
the ceiling. In existing dwellings, it is preferred that smoke detectors be
wired directly to the electrical power supply; however, said detectors may be
powered by self-monitored battery or operated in a plug-in outlet which is
fitted with a plug restrainer device, provided the outlet is not controlled by
any wall switch.
   (E)   Effective date of section. Effective upon passage and publication of
this section, it shall be the duty of every builder of each new dwelling unit
to install and have in good working condition all approved smoke detectors
required by this section. Effective upon passage and publication of this
section, at every change of ownership of a single-family residence, apartment,
efficiency apartment, and home trailer, it shall be the duty of the granter
(seller) thereof to certify by a certificate of compliance, before change of
ownership, to the new owner that all smoke detectors, as required by this
section, are installed and in proper working condition. Failure to comply with
this section shall be punishable as set forth herein; provided, however, that
this section shall not be construed to vitiate or render void any contract or
sale agreement.
   (F)   Notification of installation; certification of compliance. When an
approved smoke detector is installed, the Village Building Inspector shall be
notified by the builder or owner of the dwelling unit within five days of
installation. Upon notification, the Building Inspector shall inspect said
detectors to ensure compliance with this section. Following inspection, the
Building Inspector shall issue a certificate of compliance or a certificate of
noncompliance to the builder or owner of the dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. passed 11- -1978)
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 150.30 DEPOSIT REQUIRED; REQUEST TO CONSTRUCT.
   Any person in the village who desires to have a permanent sidewalk built in
front of or along his or her lot or block shall first deposit with the Village
Treasurer a sum sufficient to pay the costs and expenses of filling in from the
outer edge of said sidewalk to the curb, and one-half of the entire cost of the
sidewalk proper; and by request in writing to the Board of Trustees, notify
said Board that he or she has so deposited said sum (stating the amount), when
it shall be lawful for the Board of Trustees to order a permanent sidewalk to
be constructed as requested, and at the same time order that one-half the cost
of said walk shall be paid out of the General Fund of the village not otherwise
appropriated; provided, however, that the Village Board shall be at liberty at
all times to use their discretion as to when and where any permanent sidewalk
shall be built. Permanent sidewalks as contemplated in this section shall be
constructed of cement. In case the Village Board should refuse to order a
permanent sidewalk to be built as requested in this section, they shall order
the Treasurer of the village to refund all advance payments made by the person
whose request is so refused.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. passed 4-10-1899)
§ 150.31 RESOLUTION TO CONSTRUCT.
   Whenever the Board of Trustees shall elect to construct a sidewalk in the
village in compliance with a request as provided in §
150.30, they shall, by resolution, direct the same to be done, specifying in
said resolution the dimensions of the same and the work of constructing any
permanent sidewalk in the village shall be let by public notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. passed 4-10-1899; Ord. passed 6-14-1926)
§ 150.32 BOND OF BUILDER.
   Whenever any contract for the construction of any permanent sidewalk is let
by the Board of Trustees of the village, the Board shall request a bond of the
builder of the same conditioned that said sidewalk shall be acceptable by the
village.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. passed 4-10-1899)
§ 150.33 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   All concrete sidewalks constructed in the village shall be one course
Portland cement concrete sidewalks, and shall conform to the specifications
kept on file in the office of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 150.34 SUPERVISION AND INSPECTION.
   All sidewalks constructed in the village shall be under the supervision and
inspection of the engineer or other officer designated by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. passed 6-14-1926)
§ 150.35 BUILDING INSPECTOR APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No residents or landowners shall construct any sidewalks which shall be
placed partly or wholly within the right-of-way of the platted streets,
avenues, and alleys of the village without first having approval from the
Village Building Inspector. There shall be no fee for this inspection, and
approval should not be unreasonably withheld. All sidewalks so constructed
shall meet the specifications set forth in the Building Code or the appropriate
reference materials used by the Building Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) (Ord. passed 9-8-2003)
§ 150.36 SIDEWALK REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   Voluntary residential sidewalk reimbursement. Effective October 1,
2014, the village will reimburse owners of residential property located in the
village the sum of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for the owners’ voluntary installation of new sidewalk which replaces old
sidewalk adjacent to such owners’ property, provided that prior to such
reimbursement the Village Building Inspector must:
      (1)   Take measurements of the proposed sidewalk;
      (2)   Approve the materials and method of installation of the new
sidewalk; and
      (3)   Issue a permit for the installation of the new sidewalk; and,
provided that after completion of the new sidewalk, the Village Building
Inspector must:
         (a)   Perform a final inspection;
         (b)   Approve the installation of the sidewalk, as completed; and
         (c)   Approve the request for reimbursement in writing.
   (B)   Voluntary commercial sidewalk reimbursement. Effective October 1,
2014, the village will reimburse commercial property owners an amount as set
forth in §
35.02, for the owners’ voluntary installation of new sidewalk which replaces
old sidewalk adjacent to such owners’ property; provided, that prior to such
reimbursement the Village Inspector must:
      (1)   Take measurements of the proposed sidewalk;
      (2)   Approve the materials and method of installation of the new
sidewalk; and
      (3)   Issue a permit for the installation of the new sidewalk and,
provided that after completion of the new sidewalk, the Village Building
Inspector must:
         (a)   Perform a final inspection;
         (b)   Approve the installation of the sidewalk, as completed; and
         (c)   Approve the request for reimbursement in writing.
   (C)   Mandated sidewalk replacement. Effective October l, 2014, when a
property owner is mandated by the state or the village to replace sidewalk on
the public right-of-way which lies adjacent to the owners’ property, the
village will reimburse the property owner in an amount equal to 50% of the cost
(inclusive of labor and materials) of the replacement of the old sidewalk;
provided, however, that the village must approve a written cost estimate for
any such sidewalk replacement prior to the commencement of installation of such
replacement sidewalk, and provided that prior to such reimbursement the Village
Inspector must:
      (1)   Take measurements of the proposed sidewalk;
      (2)   Approve the materials and method of installation of the new
sidewalk; and
      (3)   Issue a permit for the installation of the new sidewalk; and,
provided that after completion of the new sidewalk, the Village Building
Inspector must:
         (a)   Perform a final inspection;
         (b)   Approve the installation of the sidewalk, as completed; and
         (c)   Approve the request for reimbursement in writing.
   (D)   Annual sidewalk reimbursement budget. Each year the Board of Trustees
shall set a maximum amount to apply for to the sidewalk reimbursement program
for that fiscal year, said amount to be set on or before the May meeting of the
Village Board of Trustees. Property owners seeking reimbursement shall be paid
in the order applications are received. Upon receipt of a request for
reimbursement, a property owner shall be notified if there are not sufficient
funds available for reimbursement that fiscal year, that owner shall still be
entitled to reimbursement, but not until the start of the following fiscal
year.
(Ord. 14-3, passed 8-18-2014; Ord. 19-01, passed 5-13-2019)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Those ordinances pertaining to village subdivision regulations, and all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference, and are on file with the
Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, Title 10)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Definitions
Districts; General Regulations
   
152.015   Districts established
   
152.016   District zoning map
   
152.017   Boundaries
   
152.018   Annexation of land
   
152.019   Vacation of property
   
152.020   Areas under water
   
152.021   Restrictions
   
152.022   Occupancy permits
   
152.023   Requirements for building permits
   
152.024   Enforcement
   
152.025   Interpretation, purpose, and conflict
   
152.026   Amendments and changes
   
152.027   Buildable lots
R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District
   
152.040   Scope
   
152.041   Use regulations
   
152.042   Height and area regulations
   
152.043   Parking regulations
R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District
   
152.055   Scope
   
152.056   Use regulations
   
152.057   Height and area regulations
   
152.058   Parking regulations
C Commercial District
   
152.070   Scope
   
152.071   Use regulations
   
152.072   Height and area regulations
   
152.073   Parking regulations
I Light Industrial District
   
152.085   Scope
   
152.086   Use regulations
   
152.087   Height and area regulations
   
152.088   Parking and loading regulations
Height and Area Requirements; Exceptions; Modifications
   
152.100   Height
   
152.101   Front yards
   
152.102   Side yards
   
152.103   Rear yards
   
152.104   General yards and areas
   
152.105   Height and area requirements; table
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
152.120   Parking spaces required
   
152.121   Computing number of spaces
   
152.122   Location of parking spaces
   
152.123   Loading requirements
Special Use Regulations; Restrictions
   
152.135   Special use permit
   
152.136   Compliance required
   
152.137   Railroads and utilities
   
152.138   Prohibited items
   
152.139   Abandoned, unlicensed, and inoperable vehicles
   
152.140   Condition of premises
   
152.141   Parking of trailers, motor homes, or boats
   
152.142   Planting bushes
   
152.143   Mobile homes, trailers, and motor vehicles
Nonconforming Uses
   
152.155   Continuance
   
152.156   Storage purposes; signs and billboards
   
152.157   Buildings
   
152.158   Nonconforming use discontinued
   
152.159   Changing nonconforming use
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning
Ordinance of the Village of St. Anne.”
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number includes the
plural and the plural the singular; the word BUILDING includes the word
STRUCTURE and the word SHALL is mandatory and not directory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or a portion of the main
building or a use which is customarily incidental to and located on the same
lot with the main building or the main use of the premises, and which is
constructed or established at the same time or after construction of the main
building or use.
   ALLEY. A public or private way which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A building used for the care of domestic animals.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms intended, designed, or used as the
dwelling of a family, including bath and culinary accommodations, located in a
building in which are three or more such rooms or suites.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   BASEMENT. A story having part but not more than one-half its height below
grade. A BASEMENT is counted as a story for the purpose of height regulation if
subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes other than by a janitor
employed on the premises.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement, meals or lodging and meals are provided for three or more, but
not exceeding 20 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or built for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or
the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and garnbrel
roofs.
   CELLAR. That portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is wholly
or partly below grade, and having more than one-half of its height below grade.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians or dentists
practicing together.
   CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the village, for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size
of yards, and the intensity of use are uniform.
   DOG KENNEL. Any enclosure whereby animals are kept.
   DRIVE-IN. An establishment where patrons are permitted to park cars on the
premises and food or drinks or other products or services are provided to or
utilized by patrons in cars.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed or used for
residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof designed for or occupied
by more than two families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by
one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
families.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or a
group of not more than three persons who need not be related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, living together and maintaining a common household.
   FILLING STATION. Any building, structure, or land used for the dispensing,
sale, or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels, oils, or
accessories, including lubrication of automobiles and replacement or
installation of minor parts and accessories, but not including major repair
work such as motor replacement, body and fender repair, or spray painting.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
not more than four motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the
building to which it is accessory, and not storing more than one commercial
vehicle or any vehicle which exceeds a one and one-half ton capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for equipping, repairing, hiring, selling, or
storing motor-driven vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises designed or used for storage only,
of motor-driven vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements and not to
transients, and within which automobile fuels and oils may be sold without
exterior advertising, but no motor-driven vehicles are equipped, repaired,
hired, or sold.
   GRADE.
      (1)   (a)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
         (b)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining
the streets.
         (c)   For buildings having no walls adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the building.
      (2)   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from
a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
immediate family, residing on the premises in connection with which there is
used no sign other than a name plate not more than one square foot in area, or
no display that will indicate from the exterior that the building is being used
in whole or in part for any purpose other than that of a dwelling; there is no
commodity sold upon the premises; no person is employed other than a member of
the immediate family residing on the premises; and no mechanical equipment is
used except such as is normally used for purely domestic or household purposes.
   JUNKYARD. Any area of land on which discarded items commonly known as junk
are placed. JUNK includes, but is not limited to, discarded paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, plastics, bedding, metals, including
automobiles or parts thereof, tin cans, metal furniture, pieces of glass,
crockery, and other discarded manufactured items.
   LAUNDROMAT. An establishment providing home type washing, drying, or ironing
machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
   LOADING SPACE. A space within the main building or on the same lot
therewith, providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of trucks, and
having a minimum dimension of 12 feet by 35 feet and a vertical clearance of at
least 14 feet.
   LODGING HOUSE or ROOMING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where lodging
for three or more persons is provided for compensation pursuant to previous
arrangements.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter and
having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved
place.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county; or a parcel
of land, the deed of which was recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds
prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   MOTOR COURT, MOTEL, or TOURIST COURT. A group of attached, semi-detached, or
detached buildings containing individual sleeping or living units designed for
or used temporarily by automobile tourists or transients.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time of the passage of this chapter or amendment thereto, which does not
conform after the passage hereof or amendments thereto with the use regulations
of the district in which it is situated.
   NURSING HOME. A private home, institution, building, residence, or other
place, whether operated for profit or not, which provides, through its
ownership or management, maintenance, personal care, or nursing for three or
more persons, not related to the applicant or owner by blood or marriage, or
any similar facility in which maintenance is provided to three or more persons
who by reason of illness or mental or physical infirmity require personal care
or nursing or provides maintenance, personal care, or sheltered care to aged
persons.
   PARKING SPACE. A durably surfaced area, enclosed in the main building, in an
accessory building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard
automobile, and if the space is unenclosed comprising an area of not less than
180 square feet, exclusive of a durably surfaced driveway connecting the
parking area with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and
egress of an automobile.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar or a basement (except
one used for business or residence) included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A partial story under a gable, hip, or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than four
feet above the floor of such story, except that any partial story used for
residence purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker and his or her
family, or by a family occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be
deemed a full story.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls, not including,
however, changes in doors or windows or alterations which affect primarily on
the appearance and not the life of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
location on the ground or attached to something having a location on the
ground, including but without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
advertising signs, billboards, swimming pools, and back stops for tennis
courts.
   TOURIST OR TRAILER CAMP. An area containing one or more structures designed
or intended to be used as temporary living facilities of two or more families
and providing spaces where two or more tents or trailers can be parked.
   TRAILER. Any structure used for living, sleeping, business, or storage
purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses,
or skirtings and which is, has been, or reasonably may be, equipped with wheels
or other devices for transporting the structure from place to place whether by
motive power or other means. The term TRAILER shall include a camp car or house
car.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a YARD for the
purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or
the depth of the rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot
line and the main building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street or
place line and the main building or any projections thereof other than the
projections of the usual uncovered steps, uncovered balconies, or uncovered
porch. On corner lots, the FRONT YARD shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot between the side lot
lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the main building or any projections thereof other than the
projections of uncovered steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On
all lots, the REAR YARD shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front
yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot,
and extending from the front line to the required rear yard, and being the
minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main
buildings or any projections thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967; Ord. passed 10-12-1987)
DISTRICTS; GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.015 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the locations of trades,
industries, and the location of buildings designed for specified uses, to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
structurally altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of land
and lot areas, and to regulate and determine the areas of yards, courts, and
other open spaces within and surrounding such buildings, the village is hereby
divided into districts, of which there are four in number, known as:
   (A)   R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District;
   (B)   R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District;
   (C)   C Commercial District; and
   (D)   I Light Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.016 DISTRICT ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map made a part of this
chapter by reference, which map is designated as the “district zoning map.” The
district zoning map and all the notations, references, and other information
shown thereon are a part of this chapter and have the same force and effect as
if the district zoning map and all the notations, references, and other
information shown thereon were all fully set forth or described herein, which
district zoning map is properly attested and is on file with the Clerk of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.017 BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts shown on the district zoning map, the following rule applies: the
district boundary lines on said map are intended to follow either streets or
alleys or lot lines, and where the districts designated on the map are bounded
approximately by such street, alley, or lot lines, the street or alley or lot
line shall be construed to be the boundary of the district unless such boundary
is otherwise indicated on the map.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.018 ANNEXATION OF LAND.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be
considered as being in the R-1 single-family dwelling district until otherwise
changed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.019 VACATION OF PROPERTY.
   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by official
action of the Village Board, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth
be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.020 AREAS UNDER WATER.
   All areas within the corporate limits of the village which are under water
and not shown as included within any district, shall be subject to all of the
regulations of the district which immediately adjoins the water area.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.021 RESTRICTIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the following restrictions apply.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used, except for a
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located.
   (C)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located.
   (D)   No building shall be erected, or structurally altered to the extent
specifically provided hereinafter, except in conformity with the off-street
parking and loading regulations of the district in which such building is
located.
   (E)   The minimum yards, parking spaces, and other open spaces, including
lot area per family, required by this chapter for each and every building
existing on the effective date hereof, or for any building hereafter erected,
shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard or parking space or open
space requirements for any other buildings, nor shall any yard or open space or
parking space be reduced below the requirements of this chapter for the
district in which such lot is located.
   (F)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a LOT as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot except as specifically provided hereinafter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.022 OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no change in the use or
occupancy of land, nor any change of use or occupancy in an existing building
other than for single-family dwelling purposes shall be made, nor shall any new
building be occupied for any purpose until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Building Inspector. Every certificate of occupancy shall state
that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration of, any
building shall be issued before the application has been made for certificate
of occupancy and compliance, and no building or premises shall be occupied
until that certificate and permit is issued.
   (C)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Building Inspector, and copies shall be furnished on request to
any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in land or in a building
affected by such certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required of all nonconforming uses
of land or buildings created by the passage of the zoning ordinance.
Application for such certificate of occupancy for nonconforming uses shall be
filed with the Building Inspector by the owner or lessee of the land or
building occupied by such nonconforming use within two years from the effective
date hereof. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to issue a
certificate of occupancy for a nonconforming use.
   (E)   An occupancy permit shall not issue if there are outstanding utility
charges owed to the village by the property owner and/or developer relating to
the property for the permit is requested.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967; Ord. 15-01, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 152.023 REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by accurate
lot plans, submitted in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact sizes and locations on the
lot of the buildings and accessory buildings then existing and the lines within
which the proposed building and structure shall be erected or altered, the
existing and intended use of each building or part of building, the number of
families or housekeeping units the building is designed to accommodate, and
such other information with regard to the lot and neighboring lots as may be
necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of this chapter. A
careful record of the original copy of such applications and plats shall be
kept in the office of the Building Inspector and a duplicate copy shall be kept
at the building at all times during construction. The cost of obtaining a
building permit shall be in an amount as set forth in §
35.02. Said building permit shall remain valid for a period of one year
following the date of issuance thereof. Further, any construction requiring a
permit wherein the value of the construction is less than an amount as set
forth in §
35.02.
   (B)   All dimensions shown on these plans relating to the locations and
sizes of the lots to be built upon shall be based on an actual survey and the
lot shall be staked out on the ground before construction is started.
   (C)   Before a permit is issued for new construction, the Building Inspector
shall collect a fee of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for electrical inspections and an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for plumbing inspections. If more than two electrical inspections or more
than two plumbing inspections are necessary, there shall be an additional fee
in an amount as set forth in §
35.02 for each.
   (D)   A building permit shall not be issued to an applicant if there are
outstanding utility charges owed to the village either relating to the
property, or owed by the applicant. The Building Inspector and/or Village Board
may waive this requirement if acceptable payment arrangements are made or in
the case of an emergency, such as fire or natural disaster.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-9) (Ord. passed 9-14-1992; Ord. passed 8-8-2005; Ord. passed
2-12-2007; Ord. passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 15-01, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 152.024 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce this chapter.
Appeal from the decision of the Building Inspector may be made to the Board of
Appeals as provided in §§
32.15 through
32.19.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-10) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.025 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE, AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare. It is
not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
ordinance, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued, and not
in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be
adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings and
premises, and likewise not in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by
this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants,
or other agreements between parties except that if this title imposes a greater
restriction, this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-11) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.026 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   The Village Board may from time to time amend, supplement, or change
by ordinance the boundaries of districts or the regulations herein established.
   (B)   A public hearing shall be held by the Village Board, notice of which
hearing shall be given by publishing in some daily newspaper of general
circulation not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days in advance of such
hearing, stating the time and place of said hearing. In case of written protest
against any proposed amendment of the regulations or districts, signed and
acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, and filed with the Village Board,
such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds
of all of the members of the Village Board.
   (C)   A private individual may request a zoning classification amendment by
following the procedures set forth hereinbelow; specifically:
      (1)   File a completed petition setting forth the name of the petitioner,
the common address of the subject property, the tax parcel identification
number of the subject property, the legal address of the subject property, the
current zoning classification of the subject property, the proposed
classification of the subject property, the current use of the subject
property, the intended use of the subject property, the present character of
the property in the general area of the subject property, and the zoning
classification of the property, and the general area, and as a requirement of
that petition, the same shall contain a list of names and addresses of all
persons to whom the current real estate tax bills are sent as shown on the tax
records of the office of the County Assessor, and all persons residing on or in
possession of the premises of all lots lying within 150 feet of the property
lines of the lot(s) for which the zoning classification amendment is sought,
excluding all streets, alleys, and other public rights-of-ways;
      (2)   Said petition shall be filed with the Village Clerk along with a
nonrefundable charge of an amount as set forth in §
35.02 to cover the approximate costs of this procedure. The Clerk shall submit
the petition and require documentation to the Board of Trustees for placement
on the agenda at their next regularly scheduled meeting;
      (3)   Prior to that hearing, the petitioner shall publish notice of same
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village, not less than 15 days
nor more than 30 days in advance of the scheduled hearing date, and shall
submit a publisher’s certificate evidencing same to the Village Clerk on or
before the hearing date as proof of publication of said notice;
      (4)   In advance of said hearing, the petitioner shall give notice to all
persons to whom current real estate tax bills are sent as shown on the tax
records of the office of the County Assessor, and to all persons residing on or
in possession of the premises of all lots lying within 150 of the property
lines of the lot(s) for which the zoning classification amendment is sought,
excluding all streets, alleys, and other public rights-of-ways by certified
mail, return receipt requested, not more than 45 days nor less than seven days
in advance of the scheduled hearing, and said notice shall include the current
address and legal description of the property, and the time, place, and purpose
of the hearing;
      (5)   The petitioner shall file a sworn affidavit with a copy of the
notice delivered to owners and occupants within the 150 foot radius set forth
hereinabove, showing the names and addresses of all persons to whom notice has
been sent with the Village Clerk no less than three days prior to the scheduled
hearing date, and in addition thereto, shall submit all certified mail receipts
for verification;
      (6)   Not less than seven days in advance of the hearing date, the
petitioner shall post a sign on the property for which the zoning
classification amendment is sought in a location that can be easily viewed by
the general public notifying the public as to the date, time, location, and
purpose of the hearing; and
      (7)   In the event that the Village Board does not pass such an
amendment, there shall be no refund of the deposit in an amount as set forth in
§
35.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-12) (Ord. passed 1-9-1995)
§ 152.027 BUILDABLE LOTS.
   (A)   Minimum square footage. All lots must meet the minimum square footage
as set forth in the table found in §
152.105. (R-1 District is 5,000 square feet; all others are 2,500 square feet.)
   (B)   Recorded. Said lots must be lots which are recorded in the manner set
forth in §
152.002 (a lot which is part of a subdivision whose map has been recorded or in
the alternative a parcel of land whose deed has been recorded with the
appropriate legal description).
   (C)   Water or sewer services. The availability of water or sewer services
by the village shall not be a bar to defining a lot as a buildable lot.
Sections §
50.09 and
51.08 shall apply to the use of sewer or water systems separate from the
village sewer and/or water system and anyone wishing to build a home on a lot
for which such public sewer or water is not available shall be directed to
these sections prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-14) (Ord. passed 10-13-2003)
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 152.040 SCOPE.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter when referred to in this subchapter are the district regulations in the
R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.041 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling;
   (B)   Park, playground, or community building owned or operated by a public
agency;
   (C)   Public library;
   (D)   Public school, elementary or high, or a private or parochial school,
having a curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in a public school;
   (E)   Nursery, truck gardening, and the raising of farm crops but not the
raising of poultry, pets, and livestock, and not on a scale that would be
objectionable to surrounding residences, and provided further that no products
shall be sold on the premises except those that are raised thereon and no
building or stand shall be erected for the exclusive use of such sale;
   (F)   Church or other place of worship;
   (G)   Home occupation;
   (H)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the above
uses, when located on the same lot and not involving the conduct of a business,
including a private garage when located not less than 60 feet from the front
lot line, or a private garage constructed as part of the main building;
    (I)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work; and
   (J)   Church or public bulletin boards not exceeding 12 square feet in area,
or temporary sign appertaining to the lease, hire, or sale of a building or
premises, not exceeding eight square feet in area.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 152.042 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   The height and area regulations set forth in §§
152.100 through
152.105 shall be observed.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 152.043 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements for specific uses set forth in §§
152.120 through
152.123.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
R-2 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 152.055 SCOPE.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter where referred to in this subchapter are the district regulations in
the R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 152.056 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
    (A)   Any use permitted in R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings; and
   (C)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the above
uses when located on the same lot and not involving the conduct of a business,
including a private garage when located not less than 60 feet from the front
line of a private garage constructed as a part of the main building.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
§ 152.057 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   The height and area regulations set forth in §§
152.100 through
152.105 shall be observed.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3)
§ 152.058 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements for specific uses set forth in §§
152.120 through
152.123.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.070 SCOPE.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter when referred to in this subchapter are the regulations in the C
Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1)
§ 152.071 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Business, charitable, finance, professional, and consulting offices or
office building.
   (B)   Medical or dental clinic;
   (C)   Motor court, motel, tourist court, or tourist home;
   (D)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any of the above
uses, including a bulletin board or sign relating only to services, articles,
and products offered within the building to which the sign is attached, which
sign shall not project for a distance of more than two feet beyond the building
nor shall it exceed 30 square feet in area;
   (E)   Automobile parking lot;
   (F)   Bakery, whose products are sold at retail on the premises;
   (G)   Bank;
   (H)   Barber shop or beauty shop;
   (I)   Dancing or music studio;
   (J)   Catering establishment;
   (K)   Display room for merchandise to be sold at wholesale where merchandise
sold is stored elsewhere;
   (L)   Dressmaking or tailor shop;
   (M)   Filling station;
   (N)   Laundromat;
   (O)   Media;
   (P)   Painting and decorating shop;
   (Q)   Private school;
   (R)   Recreation building or structure;
   (S)   Repair shops for household appliances, bicycles, and shoe repair;
   (T)   Restaurant;
   (U)   Carpenter shop;
   (V)   Store or shop for the conduct of a retail business; provided, that
there shall be no slaughtering of animals or poultry on the premises;
   (W)   Store for the collection and distribution of laundry and dry cleaning
articles, but not for the treatment, cleaning, or processing of such articles;
   (X)   Business or commercial school;
   (Y)   Farm implement display and sales room;
   (Z)   Frozen food locker;
   (AA)   Milk distributing station;
   (BB)   Public garage and automobile sales room;
   (CC)   Theater;
   (DD)   Undertaking business or establishment;
   (EE)   Used car sales or storage lot, when located at least 50 feet from any
R District; and
   (FF)   When located not less than 100 feet from any R District:
      (1)   Bowling alley;
      (2)   Drive-in restaurant;
      (3)   Printing, publishing, or engraving; and
      (4)   Other personal service uses of a similar character to those
specifically listed in this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2)
§ 152.072 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   The height and area regulations set forth in §§
152.100 through
152.105 shall be observed.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3)
§ 152.073 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements for specific uses set forth in §§
152.120 through
152.123.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
I LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.085 SCOPE.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter when referred to in this subchapter are the district regulations in the
I Light Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-1)
§ 152.086 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the C Commercial District;
   (B)   Bottling works;
   (C)   Carting, express, hauling, or storage yard;
   (D)   Contractor’s yard;
   (E)   Coal, coke, or wood yard;
   (F)   Assembly and manufacture from prefabricated parts of household
appliances, electronic products, and similar products or the processing or
assembling of parts for production of finished equipment;
   (G)   Lumber yards and millwork plants;
   (H)   Fruit and food processing and storage;
   (I)   Utilities; and
   (J)   Industrial manufacturing plants where the process of manufacturing or
the treatment of materials is such that only a nominal amount of dust, odor,
gas, smoke, or noise is emitted.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-2)
§ 152.087 HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   The height and area regulations set forth in §§
152.100 through
152.105 shall be observed, and in addition, any building or portion thereof
used for dwelling purposes shall comply with the side and rear yard regulations
of the R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-3)
§ 152.088 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided in accordance with
the requirements for specific uses set forth in §§
152.120 through
152.123.
(Prior Code, § 5-6-4) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
HEIGHT AND AREA REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS; MODIFICATIONS
§ 152.100 HEIGHT.
   The height regulations prescribed in §
152.105 shall not apply to television and radio towers, church spires,
belfries, monuments, tanks, water and fire towers, stage towers, or scenery
lofts, cooling towers, ornamental towers, and spires, chimneys, elevator
bulkheads, smokestacks, conveyors, and flat poles.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-1)
§ 152.101 FRONT YARDS.
   (A)   When 40% or more of the frontage on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets is improved with buildings that have observed a front yard
line having a variation in depth of not more than ten feet no building shall
project beyond the average front yard so established; provided, however, that a
front yard depth shall not be required to exceed 60 feet.
   (B)   Fences in which the openings between the material of which the fence
is constructed represent less than 70% of the total surface may be erected to a
height not exceeding four feet along the boundaries of a lot, except that no
such fence shall be erected within 30 feet of a street intersection. Wire
fences and other fences in which the openings between the materials of which
the fence is constructed represent more than 70% of the total fence area may be
erected to a height of six feet, except within 30 feet of a street
intersection.
   (C)   An open, uncovered porch or paved terrace may project into a required
front or rear yard for a distance of not more than ten feet, but this shall not
be interpreted to include or permit fixed canopies.
   (D)   Filling station pumps and pump islands may be located within a
required yard provided that they are not less than 15 feet from any street line
or not less than 50 feet from the boundary of any residential district.
   (E)   Off-street parking facilities may be located within the required front
yard of any C or I District but shall not be nearer than 50 feet to any R
District, and no off-street parking shall be permitted in the required front
yard of any R District.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-2)
§ 152.102 SIDE YARDS.
   (A)   On a corner lot the width of the yard along the side street shall not
be less than the required front yard on such street; provided, however, that
the buildable width of a lot of record shall not be reduced to less than 32
feet. No accessory building shall project beyond the required yard line along
either street.
   (B)   A porte-cochere or canopy may project into a required side yard;
provided, every part of such porte-cochere or canopy is unenclosed and not less
than five feet from any side lot line.
   (C)   For the purpose of side yard regulations, a two-family dwelling shall
be considered as one building occupying one lot.
   (D)   Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date hereof is less
than 50 feet in width, the required side yard may be reduced to 10% of the
width of the lot; provided, however, that no side yard shall be less than three
feet.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-3)
§ 152.103 REAR YARDS.
   (A)   Where a lot abuts on an alley, one-half of the alley width may be
considered as part of the required rear yard.
   (B)   An accessory building not exceeding 20 feet in height may occupy not
to exceed 30% and unenclosed parking spaces may occupy not to exceed 90% of the
area of a required rear yard, but no accessory building shall be closer than
ten feet to the main building nor closer than three feet to any rear lot line.
   (C)   The ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, cornices, and
ornamental features may extend to a distance not to exceed 18 inches into a
required yard.
   (D)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, outside stairways, and
balconies opening upon fire towers, and the ordinary projections of chimneys
and flues into a rear yard may be permitted by the Building Inspector for a
distance not to exceed five feet when these are so placed as not to obstruct
light and ventilation.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-4)
§ 152.104 GENERAL YARDS AND AREAS.
   (A)   More than one main building may be erected upon a lot in the case of
commercial or industrial buildings where such uses are permitted, provided that
all yards otherwise required on the lot for a single building are observed.
   (B)   Where a lot of record at the time of the effective date hereof has
less area or width than herein required in the district in which it is located,
and the owner of such lot dies not owning any other parcel or tract adjacent
thereto, said lot may nonetheless be used for a one-family dwelling or for any
non-dwelling use permitted in the district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 5-7-5)
§ 152.105 HEIGHT AND AREA REQUIREMENTS; TABLE.
   The required height and area regulations are established and shown on the
following table:
 
           Max. Height of
           Building       Min.   Min.     Min.      Min.
                          Depth  Width of Width of  Depth of Min. Lot Min. Lot
District                  of     Either   Aggregate Rear     Area Per Width
           Stories Feet   Front  Side     Side      Yard     Family
                          Yard   Yards    Yards

R-
1 Single-  2½     35     25 ft. 5 ft.    10 ft.    25 ft.   5,000    50 ft.
Family                                                       sq. ft.
Dwelling
R-2 Two-                                                     2,500
Family     2½     35     25 ft. 5 ft.    10 ft.    25 ft.   sq. ft.  50 ft.
Dwelling
C          3       45     None   None     --        None     2,500    --
Commercial                                                   sq. ft.
I Light    6       751    25 ft. None2    --        None3    2,500    --
Industrial                                                   sq. ft.
Notes to table:
   (1)   Whenever a building in an I District adjoins or abuts an R District
or is within 100 feet thereof, such building shall not exceed three stories or
45 feet in height unless it is set back one foot from the required side and
rear yard lines for each foot of additional height above 45 feet.
   (2)   No side yard required except on the side of a lot adjoining a
Residence District, in which case a side yard of not less than 10 feet shall
be provided in any I District.
   (3)   No rear yard required except on the rear of a lot adjoining a
Residence District, in which case a rear yard of not less than 25 feet shall
be provided.
 
(Prior Code, § 5-7-6) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 152.120 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   In all districts there shall be provided at the time any building or
structure is erected or structurally altered, except as hereinafter provided,
off-street parking spaces in accordance with the following requirements:
Establishment Parking Space Requirement
Establishment                                                     Parking Space
                                                                  Requirement
                                                                  3 parking
                                                                  spaces plus 1
                                                                  additional
Business or professional office, studio, bank, medical or dental  parking space
clinic                                                            for each 300
                                                                  square feet
                                                                  of floor
                                                                  space over
                                                                  1,000
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
Church or temple                                                  each 8 seats
                                                                  in the main
                                                                  auditorium
                                                                  10 parking
                                                                  spaces plus 1
                                                                  additional
                                                                  space for
Community center or library                                       each 300
                                                                  square feet
                                                                  of floor area
                                                                  in excess of
                                                                  2,000 square
                                                                  feet
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
Dance hall, assembly, or exhibition hall without fixed seats      each 100
                                                                  square feet
                                                                  of floor area
                                                                  used therefor
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space per
Dwellings, including single- and two-family                       family for
                                                                  each dwelling
                                                                  unit
                                                                  2 parking
                                                                  spaces plus 1
Furniture or appliance store, hardware store, wholesale           additional
establishments, machinery or equipment sales and service,         parking space
clothing or shoe repair, or service shops                         for each 400
                                                                  square feet
                                                                  of floor area
                                                                  over 1,000
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
                                                                  each 10 seats
                                                                  in the
                                                                  auditorium or
Grade school                                                      main assembly
                                                                  room, or 1
                                                                  space for
                                                                  each
                                                                  classroom,
                                                                  whichever is
                                                                  greater
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
                                                                  each 8 seats
                                                                  in the main
High school                                                       auditorium or
                                                                  3 spaces for
                                                                  each
                                                                  classroom,
                                                                  whichever is
                                                                  greater
                                                                  1 parking
Hospitals                                                         space for
                                                                  every 2 beds
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
                                                                  each 2
                                                                  employees on
                                                                  the maximum
Manufacturing or industrial establishment research of testing     working shift
laboratory, creamery, bottling plant, warehouse, or similar       plus space to
establishment                                                     accommodate
                                                                  all trucks
                                                                  and other
                                                                  vehicles used
                                                                  in connection
                                                                  therewith
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
                                                                  each 50
                                                                  square feet
                                                                  of floor
Mortuary or funeral home                                          space in
                                                                  slumber
                                                                  rooms,
                                                                  parlors, or
                                                                  individual
                                                                  funeral
                                                                  service rooms
                                                                  1 parking
Motor court, motel, or tourist court                              space for
                                                                  each sleeping
                                                                  room or suite
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
Printing or plumbing shop or similar service establishment        each 3
                                                                  persons
                                                                  employed
                                                                  therein
                                                                  1 parking
Private club or lodge                                             space for
                                                                  every 10
                                                                  members
                                                                  1 parking
Restaurant, night club, café, or similar recreation or amusement space for
establishment                                                     each 100
                                                                  square feet
                                                                  of floor area
                                                                  1 parking
Retail store or personal service establishment except as          space for
otherwise specified herein                                        each 200
                                                                  square feet
                                                                  of floor area
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
Rooming or boarding house                                         each 2
                                                                  sleeping
                                                                  rooms
                                                                  1 parking
                                                                  space for
Theater or auditorium (except school)                             each 5 seats
                                                                  or bench
                                                                  seating space
 
(Prior Code, § 5-8-1)
§ 152.121 COMPUTING NUMBER OF SPACES.
   In computing the number of such parking spaces required, the following rules
shall govern.
   (A)   FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area of a specific use.
   (B)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be
construed to be the nearest whole number.
   (C)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature.
   (D)   Whenever a building or use constructed or established after the
effective date hereof is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of
employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity, or otherwise, to create
a need for an increase of 10% or more in the number of existing parking spaces,
such spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change,
Whenever a building or use existing prior to the effective date hereof is
enlarged to the extent of 50% or more in floor area or in the area used, said
building or use shall then and thereafter comply with the parking requirements
set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-2)
§ 152.122 LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   The parking spaces required herein for residential buildings or uses shall
be located on the same lot with the building or use served. The parking spaces
required for any other building or use may be located on an area within 300
feet of said building, or two or more owners of buildings may join together in
providing required parking spaces. Where the required spaces are not located on
the same lot with the building or use served, the use of the lot or tract upon
which said parking spaces are provided shall be restricted by an instrument of
record describing the premises for which said parking is provided and assuring
the retention of such parking, so long as required by this chapter. Said
parking space has to be either concrete, asphalt, or gravel. Vehicles cannot be
parked in lawn area more than eight hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-3)
§ 152.123 LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every building of the type described below which is hereafter built,
relocated, or is structurally altered to the extent of more than a 50% addition
in floor area, shall provide one or more off-street truck loading berths in
accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   A building whose dominant use is handling and selling goods at retail
shall provide berths in relation to floor area used for retail purposes as
follows:
 
Floor Area              Berths Required
5,000 - 10,000 sq. ft.  1
10,000 - 20,000 sq. ft. 2
20,000 - 30,000 sq. ft. 3
Over 30,000 sq. ft.     4
 
   (B)   Manufacturing, repair, wholesale, trucking terminal, or warehouse uses
shall provide berths in relation to total floor areas as follows:
 
Floor Area               Berths Required
5,000 - 40,000 sq. ft.   1
40,000 - 100,000 sq. ft. 2
Over 100,000 sq. ft.     3
 
   (C)   All other buildings including offices and mortuaries, having over
10,000 square feet of floor area shall provide one berth.
(Prior Code, § 5-8-4) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS; RESTRICTIONS
§ 152.135 SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The Village Board, by an affirmative two-thirds vote, may by special use
permit after public hearing, authorize the location of any building or use in
any district, except as herein qualified, from which there are otherwise
prohibited by this section; provided, however, that appropriate conditions and
safeguards be imposed to protect the public welfare and to conserve and protect
property and property values in the neighborhoods.
   (A)   A property owner desirous of obtaining a special use permit shall
complete the following requirements prior to consideration of that petition by
the Village Board, specifically:
      (1)   Present and file a petition for a special use permit containing the
legal description of the subject property, the tax parcel identification number
of the subject property, the current zoning classification of the subject
property, the present use of the subject property and the intended use of the
subject property, and as a required part of that petition, shall attach thereto
a list of names and addresses of all persons to whom the current real estate
tax bills are sent as shown on the tax records of the office of the County
Assessor, and all persons who reside on or in possession of the premises of all
lots lying within 150 feet of the property lines of the lot(s) for which the
special use permit is sought, excluding all streets, alleys, or other public
rights-of-way;
      (2)   Said petition shall be filed with the Village Clerk along with the
payment of an amount as set forth in §
35.02;
      (3)   All documentation will be forwarded to the Board of Trustees for
placement on the agenda at its next regularly scheduled meeting;
      (4)   The public hearing shall be held at the next regularly scheduled
meeting for the Village Board, and petitioner shall publish notice of same in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Village, not less than 15 days nor
more than 30 days in advance of the scheduled hearing date, and submit a
publisher’s certificate to the Village Clerk on or before the hearing date as
proof of publication of said notice;
      (5)   In addition thereto, the petitioner shall send notice of the
hearing to all persons to whom the current real estate tax bills are sent as
shown in the tax records of the office of the County Assessor, and to all
persons residing on or in possession of the premises of all lots lying within
150 feet of the property lines of the lot(s) for which the special use permit
is sought, excluding streets, alleys, and other public rights-of-way;
      (6)   Said notice shall be given not more than 45 days nor less than
seven days in advance of the scheduled hearing date and shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested;
      (7)   The petitioner shall file a sworn affidavit with an attached copy
of the notice sent, showing the names and addresses of all persons to whom
notice has been sent, with the Village Clerk no less than three days prior to
the scheduled hearing date, and in addition thereto, shall submit all certified
mail receipts for verification of same; and
      (8)   The petitioner shall place a notice on the subject property for
which the special use permit is being sought not less than seven days in
advance of the hearing in the form of a sign, to be placed on said property in
such a location that can be easily viewed by the general public.
   (B)   When such special use permits the existence of shops or business in
private homes in residential areas, certain conditions shall be mandatory for
the application of the special use permit.
      (1)   No sign advertising the business shall be permitted on the
premises.
      (2)   No parking problems shall be allowed by virtue of the operation of
the business.
      (3)   No unusual noises, odors, smoke, steam, or other by-products of the
business shall be permitted.
      (4)   No use of the business shall be permitted on the premises unless
such use shall be approved by the Board of Trustees, or such subdivision or
committee as assigned to make such approvals by the Board of Trustees. Those
businesses currently in operation on the date of passage hereof shall be
allowed to continue existing usage without approval for a period of six months.
Within that six months, all existing usage must be approved by the Village
Board without cost to the business owner. Should the owner of the business fail
to obtain approval of such usage within six months, the special use permit
shall be subject to revocation under the terms and conditions as outlined in
this section.
      (5)   The granting of such special use shall be limited solely to the
present owners or occupiers of the residence for which it is requested and
shall be subject to immediate revocation for failing to conform to the rules
and regulations hereinbefore mentioned upon notice of ten days upon the
opportunity to have a hearing before the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-1) (Ord. passed 7-14-1997)
§ 152.136 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Any proposed special use shall otherwise comply with all the regulations set
forth in this chapter for the district in which such use is located.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-2) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.137 RAILROADS AND UTILITIES.
   Existing railroads and utilities may continue to be operated and maintained
in dwelling and commercial districts, but no new railroad or utility structure
other than the usual poles, wires and underground utilities shall be
established in such districts except when so authorized by the Board of
Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-3) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.138 PROHIBITED ITEMS.
   The following enumerated items are hereby prohibited anywhere within the
village, excepting by a special permit as set forth herein:
   (A)   Dog kennels;
   (B)   House trailers and motor homes, excepting trailers already located and
occupied in accordance with nonconforming use, must be properly connected to
sanitary sewer service, with village water, separately metered and must pay the
usual and customary fees for trash pickup;
   (C)   Junkyards;
   (D)   Keeping any farm animals, poultry, or any other animals for the
purpose of sale or propagation; and
   (E)   Nursing homes.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-4) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.139 ABANDONED, UNLICENSED, AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No abandoned, unlicensed, or inoperable vehicles of any type shall be
left or remain on village streets or in yards or lots for more than 48 hours.
Any violation of this provision entitles the village to remove said vehicles as
abandoned and to dispose of same in any manner the village deems appropriate,
causing the owner thereof to lose all right, title, and interest in and to said
vehicle.
   (B)   No single-family dwelling will have more than four vehicles without
special permission from the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-5) (Ord. passed 3-13-1995)
§ 152.140 CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   All yards and lots shall be kept in a clean, neat manner and any debris,
rubbish, or other junk shall be removed from said lots and yards by said
owners. If this is not done so within 48 hours after notice thereof to said
owner, by certified mail, to the owner’s last known address, as shown by the
records of the County Treasurer, and in the name the premises was last assessed
for real estate taxes, the village shall have the right to remove the debris,
rubbish, or other junk upon said premises and to place a lien against said
property for the amount of expenses incurred therein, which shall be a valid
and existing lien against said real estate.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-6) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.141 PARKING OF TRAILERS, MOTOR HOMES, OR BOATS.
   Camping trailers, boat trailers, boats, utility trailers, commercial
trailers, semi-trailers, truck cabs, or motor homes shall not be parked on any
village street or parkway for more than one hour at any time. Any violation of
this provision may be enforced by the village by removing said vehicle, said
owner of said vehicle to pay all towing and storage charges effected thereby in
order to recover said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-7) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.142 PLANTING BUSHES.
   No bushes shall be planted on village parkways without the express written
permission of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-8) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.143 MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS, AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No mobile homes, trailers, or motor vehicles shall be located in the
village as a permanent residence. A bona fide guest of a household may park a
mobile home, trailer, or motor vehicle in the rear yard of a dwelling or house
for a period of time not to exceed 15 days if such mobile home is used only for
sleeping purposes for said 15-day period.
   (B)   Removal of the wheels or other transporting devices shall not be
construed as converting said mobile home, trailer, or motor vehicle into a
permanent structure.
   (C)   A mobile home, trailer, or motor vehicle may be parked or stored
within the village regardless of the other provisions of this chapter if it is
not used for living or sleeping purposes during such time it is so stored or
parked and provided that it is not a nuisance and does not constitute a fire
hazard.
   (D)   No mobile home, trailer, or motor vehicle shall be maintained in the
village as a permanent office.
(Prior Code, § 5-9-9) (Ord. 6-78, passed 8-8-1977)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 152.155 CONTINUANCE.
   A nonconforming use of land existing on the effective date hereof may be
continued; provided, however, that no such nonconforming use of land shall be
in any way expanded, either on the same or adjoining property. If such
nonconforming use of land or any portion thereof is discontinued for a
continuous period of one year or changed, any future use of such land shall be
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-1)
§ 152.156 STORAGE PURPOSES; SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   The lawful use of land for storage purposes and for advertising signs and
billboards which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter shall be
discontinued within five years from the date of the approval of this chapter
and the same uses of land which become nonconforming by reason of a subsequent
change in this chapter shall also be discontinued within five years from the
date of the change.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-2)
§ 152.157 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the adoption of
this chapter may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provisions hereof, and such use may be extended throughout those parts of the
building which were manifestly arranged or designed therefor; provided, no
structural alterations, except those required by law or ordinance are made
therein. If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more
restricted classification. The foregoing provisions shall also apply to
nonconforming uses in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a nonconforming use
of a building has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use,
such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
   (B)   No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, or
the public enemy to the extent of more than 60% of its value, shall be restored
except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
32.18, all nonconforming commercial or industrial buildings located within any
dwelling district shall be removed or converted, and the building thereafter
devoted to a use permitted in the district, in accordance with the following
schedule:
      (1)   In the case of buildings erected before January 1, 1928, on or
before January 1, 1968;
      (2)   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1928 and
January 1, 1933, on or before January 1, 1973;
      (3)   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1933 and
January 1, 1938, on or before January 1, 1978; and
      (4)   In the case of buildings erected since January 1, 1938, within 40
years from the date of such erection, but in all cases on or before January 1,
1990.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-3)
§ 152.158 NONCONFORMING USE DISCONTINUED.
   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of two years, the use
of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-4)
§ 152.159 CHANGING NONCONFORMING USE.
   No existing building or premises devoted to a use not permitted in this
chapter in the district in which such building or premises is located, except
when required to do so by law or ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, unless such use is changed to one
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located.
(Prior Code, § 5-10-5) (Ord. passed 5-8-1967)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply
with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter,
shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of this code for each offense. The only exception is the failure to
comply with obtaining a building permit in which case the fine shall be in an
amount as set forth in §
35.01 for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-13) (Ord. passed 2-12-2001)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      - -2017     Franchise agreement with Xfinity/ Comcast for cable
                     television services for a term of ten years
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
 
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section               Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29             10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                10.04
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.       34.02
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.     34.01;
                           34.99
5 ILCS 430/5-15            34.01
5 ILCS 430/5-65            34.99
5 ILCS 430/10-10–10-40   34.01
5 ILCS 430/15-10           34.18
5 ILCS 430/50-5            34.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5            34.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)         34.01
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)         34.01
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.      110.03
35 ILCS 105/3              110.04
35 ILCS 115/3              110.04
35 ILCS 120/2              110.04
20 ILCS 3305/1             32.30
                           32.32;
20 ILCS 3305/10            32.38;
                           32.40
35 ILCS 115/9              110.02
50 ILCS 150/1 et seq.      34.02
65 ILCS 5                  10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2            10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1            10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1          10.99
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90        31.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20        31.63
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-21        31.64
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1           110.01
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5           110.02
65 ILCS 5/8-11-6           110.03
65 ILCS 5/11-141-7         50.06
65 ILCS 5/11-141-16        50.06
225 ILCS 255/1 et seq.     50.09
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.      112.16;
                           130.23
235 ILCS                   111.01
235 ILCS 5/1 et seq.       91.21
430 ILCS 65 et seq.        31.64
625 ILCS 5/1-188           10.02
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.   130.47
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.     31.64
720 ILCS 5/11-30           91.21
720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq.   91.21
720 ILCS 5/12-1 et seq.    91.21
720 ILCS 5/11-1.50 et seq. 91.21
720 ILCS 5/21-1 et seq.    91.21
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.    91.21
720 ILCS 5/24-1.2          91.21
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5          91.21
720 ILCS 5/25-1            91.21
720 ILCS 5/26-1            91.21
720 ILCS 5/28-1            91.21
720 ILCS 570/401 et seq.   91.21
740 ILCS 174/15(a)         34.18
740 ILCS 174/15(b)         34.18
775/5/1-101 et seq.        34.16
775 ILCS 5/6-101           34.18
815 ILCS 33/1 et seq.      10.02
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-3-2              10.02
1-4-1              10.99
1-4-2              10.99
1-4-3              10.99
1-4-4              10.99
1-5-1              30.01
1-5-2              30.02
1-5-3              30.03
1-5-4              30.04
1-5-5              30.05
1-5-6              30.06
1-5-7              30.07
1-5-8              30.08
1-5-9              30.09
1-6-1              31.01
1-6-2              31.02
1-6-3              31.03
1-6-4              33.30
1-6-5              34.01
1-7-1              31.21
1-7-4              31.20
1-7-5              31.22
1-7-6              31.23
1-8-1              31.15
1-8-2              31.16
1-8-3              31.17
1-8-4              31.18
1-8-5              31.19
1-8-6              31.20
1-9-1              31.55
1-9-2              31.56
1-9-3              31.57
1-9-4              31.58
1-9-5              31.59
1-9-6              31.60
1-9-7              31.61
1-9-8              31.62
1-9-9              31.63
1-9-10             31.64
1-10-1             33.01
1-11-1             11.01
1-11-2             11.02
1-12-1             33.15
1-13-1             94.01
1-13-2             94.02
1-13-3             94.03
1-13-4             94.99
2-1-1              32.01
2-2-1              32.15
2-2-2              32.16
2-2-3              32.17
2-2-4              32.18
2-2-5              32.19
2-3-1              32.30
2-3-2              32.31
2-3-3              32.32
2-3-4              32.33
2-3-5              32.34
2-3-6              32.35
2-3-7              32.36
2-3-8              32.37
2-3-9              32.38
2-3-10             32.39
2-3-11             32.39
2-3-12             32.40
3-1-1              111.01
3-1-2              111.20
3-1-3              111.21
3-1-4              111.22
3-1-5              111.23
3-1-6              111.24
3-1-7              111.25
3-1-8              111.26
3-1-9              111.27
3-1-10             111.28
3-1-11             111.02
3-1-12             111.40
3-1-13             111.41
3-1-14             111.42
3-1-15             111.43
3-1-16             111.44
3-1-17             111.45
3-1-18             111.46
3-1-19             111.03
3-1-20             111.29
3-1-21             111.04
3-1-22             111.05
3-2-1              112.01
3-2-2              112.02
3-2-3              112.03
3-2-4              112.04
3-3-1              115.01
3-3-2              115.02
3-3-3              115.03
3-3-4              115.04
3-3-5              115.05
3-3-6              115.06
3-4-1              113.20
3-4-2              113.21
3-4-3              113.22
3-4-4              113.23
3-4-5              113.24
3-4-6              113.25
3-5-1              113.01
3-5-2              113.02
3-5-3              113.03
3-5-4              113.04
3-5-5              113.05
3-6-1              115.20
3-6-2              115.21
3-6-3              115.22
3-6-4              115.23
3-6-5              52.05
3-7-1              110.01
3-7-2              110.02
3-7-3              110.03
3-7-4              110.04
3-8-2              114.01
3-8-3              114.02
3-8-4              114.03
3-8-5              114.04
3-8-6              114.05
3-8-7              114.06
3-8-8              114.07
3-8-9              114.08
3-8-10             114.09
3-8-11             114.10
3-8-12             114.11
3-8-13             114.12
3-8-14             114.13
3-8-15             114.14
3-8-16             114.15
3-8-17             114.16
3-9-1              112.15
3-9-2              112.16
3-9-3              112.17
3-9-4              112.18
3-9-5              112.19
3-9-6              112.20
3-9-7              112.21
3-9-8              112.22
3-9-9              112.23
3-9-10             112.99
3-9-11             112.24
4-1-1              150.01
4-2-1              150.16
4-2-2              150.16
4-3-1              150.17
4-4-1              150.15
5-1-1              152.001
5-1-2              152.002
5-2-1              152.015
5-2-2              152.016
5-2-3              152.017
5-2-4              152.018
5-2-5              152.019
5-2-6              152.020
5-2-7              152.021
5-2-8              152.022
5-2-9              152.023
5-2-10             152.024
5-2-11             152.025
5-2-12             152.026
5-2-13             152.999
5-2-14             152.027
5-3-1              152.040
5-3-2              152.041
5-3-3              152.042
5-3-4              152.043
5-4-1              152.055
5-4-2              152.056
5-4-3              152.057
5-4-4              152.058
5-5-1              152.070
5-5-2              152.071
5-5-3              152.072
5-5-4              152.073
5-6-1              152.085
5-6-2              152.086
5-6-3              152.087
5-6-4              152.088
5-7-1              152.100
5-7-2              152.101
5-7-3              152.102
5-7-4              152.103
5-7-5              152.104
5-7-6              152.105
5-8-1              152.120
5-8-2              152.121
5-8-3              152.122
5-8-4              152.123
5-9-1              152.135
5-9-2              152.136
5-9-3              152.137
5-9-4              152.138
5-9-5              152.139
5-9-6              152.140
5-9-7              152.141
5-9-8              152.142
5-9-9              152.143
5-10-1             152.155
5-10-2             152.156
5-10-3             152.157
5-10-4             152.158
5-10-5             152.159
6-1-1              130.21
                   130.40;
6-1-2              130.60;
                   130.99
6-1-3              130.01
6-1-4              130.22
6-1-5              130.23
6-1-6              130.24
6-1-7              130.25
6-1-8              130.02
6-1-9              130.61
6-1-10             130.41
6-1-11             130.26
6-1-12             130.03
6-1-13             130.62
6-1-15             130.42;
                   130.99
6-1-16             130.27
6-1-17             130.28
6-1-18             130.29
6-1-19             130.20
6-1-20             130.63
6-1-21             130.99
6-1-22             130.43;
                   130.99
6-1-23             130.44
6-1-24             130.45
6-1-25             130.46
6-1-26             130.05
6-1-27             130.47;
                   130.99
6-2-1              90.15
6-2-2              90.16
6-2-4              90.17
6-2-5              90.18
6-2-6              90.19
6-2-6-1            90.19
6-2-6-2            90.19
6-2-6-3            90.19
6-2-6-4            90.19
6-2-6-5            90.19
6-2-6-6            90.19
6-2-6-7            90.99
6-2-7              90.20
6-2-8              90.21
6-3-1              90.01
6-3-2              90.02
6-3-3              90.03
6-4-1              93.06
6-4-2              93.06
7-1-1              91.01
7-1-2              91.02
7-1-3              91.03
7-2-1              91.04
7-2-2              91.05
7-2-3              91.06
7-2-4              91.07
7-2-5              91.07
7-2-6              91.08
7-2A-1             91.20
7-2A-2             91.21
7-2A-3             91.22
7-2A-4             91.23
7-2A-5             91.24
7-2A-6             91.25
7-2A-7             91.26
7-3-1              52.01
7-3-2              52.02
7-3-3              52.03
7-3-4              52.04
7-3-5              91.40;
                   91.99
7-3-6              91.41;
                   91.99
7-3-7              91.42
7-3-8              91.43
7-3-9              91.44
7-3-10             91.45
7-3-11             91.46
7-3-12             91.47
7-3-13             91.99
7-3-14             91.48
7-3-15             91.99
7-4-1              50.01
7-4-2              50.02
7-4-3              50.03
7-4-4              50.04
7-4-5              50.05
7-4-6              50.06
7-4-7              50.07
7-4-8              50.08
7-4-9              50.09
7-4-10             50.10
7-4-11             50.11
7-4-12             50.12
7-4-13             50.13
7-4-14             50.99
8-1-1              93.40
8-1-2              93.20
8-1-3              93.01
8-1-4              93.03
8-1-5              93.21
8-1-6              93.41
8-1-7              93.42
8-1-8              93.04
8-1-9              93.22
8-1-10             93.23
8-1-11             93.24
8-1-12             93.02
8-1-13             93.25
8-1-14             93.43
8-1-15             93.44
8-1-16             93.45
8-1-17             93.46
8-1-18             93.47
8-1-19             93.48
8-1-20             93.49
8-1-21             93.50
8-1-22             93.51
8-1-23             93.05;
                   93.99
8-2-1              150.30
8-2-2              150.31
8-2-3              150.32
8-2-4              150.33
8-2-5              150.34
8-2-6              150.35
8-4-1              51.01
8-4-2              51.02
8-4-3              51.03
8-4-4              51.04
8-4-5              51.05
8-4-6              51.06
8-4-7              51.99
8-4-8              51.07
8-4-9              51.08
8-4-10             51.09
8-4-11             51.10;
                   51.99
8-5-1              92.01
8-5-2              92.02
8-5-3              92.03
8-5-4              92.20
8-5-5              92.04
8-5-6              92.21
8-5-7              92.22
8-5-8              92.40
8-5-9              92.05
8-5-10             92.41
8-5-11             92.42
8-5-12             92.43
8-5-13             92.44
8-5-14             92.45
8-5-15             92.23
8-5-16             92.24
8-5-17             92.25
8-5-18             92.06
8-5-19             92.46
8-5-20             92.47
8-5-21             92.07
8-5-22             92.60
8-5-23             92.61
8-5-24             92.62
8-5-25             92.08
8-5-26             92.26
8-5-27             92.27;
                   92.99
8-5-28             92.05
8-5-29             92.28
8-5-30             92.09
8-5-31             92.48
itle 10            151.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Passed Date Code Section
15-07    6-5-2015    31.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     91.01;
-        4-10-1899   150.30-
                     150.32
1        4-10-1899   30.01
3        4-10-1899   11.01
4        4-10-1899   31.03;
                     31.15
                     90.03;
                     130.01;
5        4-10-1899   130.25,
                     130.26;
                     130.41
6        4-10-1899   91.06;
                     91.08
7        4-10-1899   31.20
                     130.02;
                     130.21;
8        4-10-1899   130.22;
                     130.24;
                     130.40;
                     130.61
10       4-10-1899   90.01
                     93.01;
                     93.03;
                     93.04;
11       4-10-1899   93.20-
                     93.23;
                     93.40-
                     93.42
17       4-14-1899   113.05
2        4-16-1899   10.02
-        5-20-1918   112.03
-        10-7-1918   112.04
-        11-13-1922  31.23
-        6-14-1926   150.31;
                     150.34
-        5-20-1929   32.01
-        1-4-1932    33.01
-        10-8-1934   130.03
-        6-15-1939   91.07
-        1-2-1940    112.01
                     111.02;
                     111.03;
                     111.21;
                     111.25;
-        1-4-1943    111.27-
                     111.29;
                     111.40-
                     111.43;
                     111.45;
                     111.46
-        12-1-1947   150.16
-        5-24-1948   115.06
-        4-3-1950    112.02
-        8-2-1954    113.25
-        3-4-1957    93.24
                     52.02-
-        7-9-1962    52.04;
                     91.42
                     32.19;
                     152.002;
                     152.015-
                     152.022;
                     152.024;
                     152.025;
                     152.040;
                     152.043;
-        5-8-1967    152.058;
                     152.073;
                     152.088;
                     152.105;
                     152.123;
                     152.136-
                     152.138;
                     152.140-
                     152.142;
                     152.159
-        8-11-1969   110.01;
                     110.02
1-73     3-12-1973   90.15-
                     90.18
1-74     1-14-1974   130.60;
                     130.99
2-74     2-11-1974   111.43
3-74     2-11-1974   112.01
-        11-18-1974  110.03
6-75     9-13-1975   33.30
-        12-8-1975   93.06
                     51.02;
1-77     5-10-1976   51.04;
                     51.05
2-77     5-10-1976   115.22
3-78     6-13-1977   32.40
6-78     8-8-1977    152.143
-        11- -1978   150.17
5-79     11-13-1978  114.12;
                     114.16
6-79     2-12-1979   114.13
7-79     4-9-1979    31.63
4-81     10-13-1980  110.04
                     92.05-
                     92.09;
                     92.22-
                     92.26;
-        4-13-1981   92.28;
                     92.40;
                     92.42-
                     92.48;
                     92.60-
                     92.62
3-83     8-9-1982    111.04;
                     111.05
4-84     10-10-1983  93.02
                     50.03-
                     50.06;
-        9-10-1984   50.08-
                     50.10;
                     50.99
-        4-8-1985    30.09
-        11-10-1986  93.25
-        10-12-1987  152.002
-        5-9-1988    115.23
-        6-12-1989   33.15
-        9-14-1992   152.023
-        2-8-1993    52.01
-        3-8-1993    93.43-
                     93.51
-        4-12-1993   52.05
-        12-13-1993  92.41
-        6-13-1994   130.63
-        9-12-1994   91.99
                     130.20;
                     130.27-
-        12-13-1994  130.29;
                     130.42;
                     130.99
                     130.43;
-        1-9-1995    130.99;
                     152.026
-        3-13-1995   152.139
-        4-10-1995   52.04
                     50.10;
-        8-14-1995   51.03;
                     51.07
-        3-11-1996   50.07
                     112.15;
                     112.17-
-        6-10-1996   112.19;
                     112.21-
                     112.24;
                     112.99
                     130.05;
-        1-13-1997   130.45;
                     130.46
-        5-12-1997   51.99
-        7-14-1997   152.135
-        8-11-1997   111.24
-        4-13-1998   111.22;
                     111.26
                     30.02;
-        4-10-2000   31.01;
                     31.02
-        5-8-2000    130.44
                     90.19-
-        8-14-2000   90.21;
                     90.99
-        10-9-2000   111.26
-        2-12-2001   152.999
-        2-11-2002   150.01
-        4-8-2002    91.20-
                     91.26
-        2-2-2003    112.01
-        9-8-2003    150.35
                     51.08;
-        10-13-2003  91.99;
                     152.027
-        2-9-2004    150.15
-        5-10-2004   34.01
-        2-14-2005   93.05;
                     93.99
-        5-9-2005    50.07;
                     52.05
-        8-8-2005    152.023
-        11-13-2006  50.07
                     94.01-
-        12-11-2006  94.03;
                     94.99
-        2-12-2007   152.023
-        3-12-2007   130.47;
                     130.99
-        8-13-2007   152.023
                     51.01;
-        10-12-2009  51.02;
                     51.07
-        7-12-2010   51.09
                     91.43-
-        11-14-2011  91.48;
                     91.99
12-7     6-11-2012   111.44
12-8     7-16-2012   112.16;
                     112.20
12-9     7-16-2012   130.23
12-12    10-8-2012   31.64
-        11-10-2012  51.10;
                     51.99
13-5     11-11-2013  51.06
14-3     8-18-2014   150.36
2014-5   10-13-2014  33.16
15-01    1-12-2015   152.022;
                     152.023
2015-4   5-11-2015   111.23
15-11    12-14-2015  92.27;
                     92.99
16-03    7-11-2016   70.01
16-04    7-11-2016   10.99
16-05    7-11-2016   10.99
16-06    8-8-2016    70.01
16-8     12-12-2016  34.02
-        - -2017     TSO Table I
                     34.15-
18-01    1-8-2018    34.18;
                     34.99
18-04    10-8-2018   10.99
19-01    5-13-2019   150.36
19-02    5-13-2019   30.09
19-03    5-13-2019   31.01
20-02    7-13-2020   51.06
21-03    8-9-2021    70.01
                    
 
